---

title: Method and apparatus for coordinating solar powered lighting with grid powered lighting
abstract: A light collecting reflector assembly adjustably secured to the peripheral edge of a photovoltaic solar array useful to charge a storage battery connected to power a light upon the sensing an ambient light below a predetermined level for collecting sufficient light emitted by a selected grid powered light source and reflecting same to supplement said ambient light to said predetermined light level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09091404&OS=09091404&RS=09091404
owner: 
number: 09091404
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130719
---
This application obtains the benefit of the earlier filing date of U.S. Provisional Application 61 851 247 filed on Mar. 4 2013.

The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for coordinating the operation of solar charged lighting devices in response to the timed sequencing of lighting systems powered by the electrical grid and more particularly to directionally enabled light collectors useful in photocell switching of solar charged lighting devices focused on a selected grid powered light source.

In our current environment the use of solar lights is virtually universal with little attention paid however to the over all energy efficiencies that these very simple and trouble free devices can provide. In its typical form the very simple solar charged light includes one or more photovoltaic cells connected to charge a battery which then powers a light when a photocell triggers a switch once the sun has set. Since both the charging and also the triggering cells respond to ambient lighting they are each typically embedded side by side in a single flat panel array with the various forms of this device exemplified in U.S. Pat. No. 6 799 716 to Kuelbs U.S. Pat. No. 5 570 000 to Kowalski U.S. Pat. No. 5 101 329 to Doyle U.S. Pat. No. 4 835 664 to Wen and many others.

Since both the ambient light triggered switching device and also the light collecting charging array are best served by direct solar illumination these ubiquitous devices are typically deployed along the outer periphery of a residential property where they are most likely exposed to collect direct sunlight. Even in these peripheral locations however each such device is exposed to varying levels of sunlight exacerbated by varying levels of dust collection as well as varying intensities of reflected light and shading resulting highly varied switching schedules as darkness begins to set in. Of course these same variables also result in a wide range of battery charging rates and therefore the intervals of useful illumination that each solar light provides.

In consequence the use of these solar lighting devices is typically only an adjunct to the grid powered outdoor lights that have illuminated our home entrances and rear decks as we each try to extended our active periods beyond those dictated by sunrise and sunset an illumination system that is typically controlled by timers and the like to reduce the time intervals where solar charged lighting is needed at all. This grid powered illumination however is typically attached to the house structure itself well inside the yard periphery with its lighting sources well outside the sensing angles of any surface mounted triggering photocell aligned towards the sun thus precluding a coordinated switching response triggered by any of the grid powered lights.

Significantly while the grid powered lighting sources are usually quite bright their individual lighting output is nonetheless far below the daylight collected by a switching photocell and a focused reflecting mechanism that inexpensively and effectively gathers a much larger portion of the light emitted by a single grid powered source and transmits this larger portion of its output directly to the photocell is therefore extensively required and it is one such mechanism that is disclosed herein.

Accordingly it is the general purpose and object of the present invention to provide an adjustably aligned focusing light reflector conformed for attachment to a solar light to extend a fiber optic bundle from its collecting focus to the switching photocell on the solar collection array.

A further object of the invention is to provide a generally parabolic light reflector deployable on or adjacent a solar light to align the reflective focus thereof to illuminate the switching photocell on the solar light collection array.

Other and yet further objects of the invention will become apparent upon the inspection of the description that follows in conjunction with the illustration appended.

Briefly these and other objects are accomplished within the present invention by providing a generally parabolic light reflector of a substantially elliptical light collecting planform mounted on one end of a deformable wire structure that is clipped at its other end to the edge of a solar light cover on which the collecting array and its associated switching photocell are also deployed. In accordance with the first embodiment one end of a fiber optic bundle is deployed at the light collecting focus of the reflector with the bundle then extending through or around the reflector where its other end is adhesively fixed adjacent the switching photocell aperture to be illuminated by the light from the adjacent bundle fiber ends. In this manner the light gathered in the much larger collection area of the reflector that is aligned to capture a selected grid powered light source is focused onto the switching photocell to coordinate the lighting cycle of the solar light when this grid light is turned off.

In its second form a generally parabolic reflector may be conformed into an eccentric generally elliptical planform that is adjustably mounted on the end of a deformable wire post pushed into the ground adjacent its paired solar light bent or convolved to direct its diffused focal center onto the switching photocell when the reflector is once again aimed to capture the light emitted by a selected adjacently located grid powered light source. While of course the preferred positioning of the reflectors in both implementations is behind the respective light collecting surfaces of the solar light to limit any incidence of unwanted shading in order to render the alignment convenient the diffusion of the focal area of curvatures of both reflectors are distorted from the ideal parabolic curvatures thereby diffusing the reflected focus into a larger volume both to simplify the orientation process and to reduce the potential of unintended damaging concentrated intensity levels of the reflected sunlight. Of course in both forms the reflectors each need to be aligned behind the sunlight exposure of the collection array with their aiming axes generally aligned away from the solar light towards a selected grid powered light source.

It will be appreciated that both the foregoing inventive forms utilize the convenience of bending the supporting wire posts that are attached to the solar light or driven into the adjacent ground to effect the desired aiming and orienting of the light collecting reflective surface towards the grid powered light source. Once thus aligned the large amount of the reflected light aimed or fiber optically guided onto the triggering photocell swamps the solar light s triggering operation in complementing coordination with the sequencing of the grid powered lights. Thus a much more orderly solar light operation is assured reducing the illuminating cycle to the times when the grid powered illumination is off to extend battery life.

As shown in the inventive first embodiment of a light collecting device generally designated by the numeral is useful with and is therefore generally associated with a typical prior art solar light assembly SLA illustrated in and characterized by an upper light collecting panel PU surrounded by a slanted peripheral drip edge DE and having a photovoltaic array PN mounted thereon on which one or more solar cells SC are positioned alongside a photocell PC connected to trigger a switch SW in circuit between a battery BT and a light emitting device LED. To replenish the power consumed in the course of lighting the solar cell s SC are also connected to the battery BT with a blocking diode BD preventing reverse leakage. This whole solar light assembly is then mounted on a ground piercing spike PS that is pushed into the ground GR at selected locations.

A switch assembly SW in a circuit between the positive end of the battery BT and a low power light LED is opened by the signal from the photocell PC so that when the solar cells are exposed to sunlight to collect its energy i.e. during daylight hours to disconnect the light LED. Of course since the continued operations of this assembly are all dependent on an efficient collection of sunlight the orientation of the panel PN is necessarily aligned for its full exposure thereto which nonetheless varies significantly as result of local shading local absorption and or local reflections from adjacent structures. Consequently the instance when light LED of any singular solar light assembly SLA is turned on varies greatly both because of the imprecisions in the triggering circuit itself and also because of the variations in the light intensity at the photocell PC which has been sometimes covered by a small translucent hemispherical dome HD in an attempt to resolve this problem. Notwithstanding these attempted improvements the illumination starting times of these inexpensive solar lighting devices remain imprecise and are therefore difficult to coordinate effectively with any clock operated lighting arrangement that controls the lighting cycles of grid powered lights. This is particularly bothersome to those that want to use the solar energy stored in the solar lights as an adjunct lighting source once the grid lights are turned off.

In order to defer the lighting cycle of this typical solar lighting assembly SLA to a time when a complementing grid powered light GPL on the wall structure WS is turned off by a timed switching device TSD the first example of the inventive light collecting device includes a generally U shaped clip conformed to engage the bottom periphery of the drip edge DE within a groove GR along one of its legs with the other leg OL then extending over the upper panel PU where it is fixed in spring pre stress by a captured strip of adhesive to align an opening at its free edge over the photocell PC and its translucent covering HD. The center part of clip is then provided with a transversely aligned bracket which engages in frictional engagement the lateral arm L of an L shaped rod that is again frictionally captured between a vertical bracket affixed to the rear exterior surface of a generally elliptical parabolic reflector .

In this form the reflective alignment of the reflector can be conveniently adjusted by the coordinated movement of the ends of rod within brackets and and the concurrent rotation of the solar light assembly SLA around the insertion axis of its mounting post PS within the ground GR to obtain an alignment of the reflector that captures the light emitted by the grid powered light GPL. Once thus aligned the parabolic reflection focuses the reflected light into a focal volume FV in which one end of a fiber optic bundle is extended from a generally cantilevered capture within a notch N with its other end of the bundle then received within the opening to illuminate the photocell PC.

It will be appreciated that the foregoing arrangement obtains a substantial light amplification over the light originally admitted to the photocell PC generally corresponding to the ratio of the relative areas of the reflector and the photocell aperture. This same amplification also effectively amplifies the ambient background illumination by the sun SU to insure that the lighting of the solar light SLA is suppressed until substantial darkness sets in. In this manner the lighting cycle of the solar lights can be deferred until the timed grid powered cycle expires conserving the energy stored in each solar light assembly.

By particular reference to a second embodiment of the instant invention generally designated by the numeral includes a unitary reflector assembly separately supported on its own mount comprising a length of deformable wire that is inserted into the ground GR adjacent the solar light SLA. Like numbered parts functioning in a like manner to that previously described an eccentric parabolic reflector is affixed to the upper end of wire and aligned to reflect the light emitted by the grid powered light GPL into a focal volume FV that is positioned to illuminate the upper panel PU including the photocell PH. To assure functional operation within the reflecting angles available reflector is of a larger area than that of reflector and its alignment is limited to areas where it does not interfere with the sunlight illumination of the solar light SLA. In this manner grid powered lights of various intensities may be easily accommodated in a passive arrangement that can be left unattended for long periods of time.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the instant invention can be effected without departing from the spirit of the teachings herein. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be determined solely by the claims appended hereto.

