---

title: System and method for keyed operation of devices using near field communication
abstract: In implementations, a computer-implemented method for operating a multifunctional device (MFD) is disclosed. The computer-implemented method can include receiving a identification information from a tag that is associated with a MFD; identifying, by a processor, one or more operations based on the identification information that was received; and transmitting the one or more operations to the MFD.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09083837&OS=09083837&RS=09083837
owner: XEROX CORPORATION
number: 09083837
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130326
---
The present disclosure relates to control and operation of multifunctional devices. More particularly the present disclosure relates to methods systems devices and computer readable medium for customizable control and operation of multifunctional devices using NFC or similar tags.

Multifunction devices MFDs such as copiers printers scanners etc. comprise a user interface UI that contains many options for performing tasks like copying scanning and faxing. Often the user interface of the MFDs is difficult and time consuming to repeatedly alter to set the various options supported by the MFDs and back end workflow systems which process input from and output to MFDs. Many users tend to repeat the same operations over time and can benefit from a simpler way to store and use the relevant settings. It is especially useful for users to have their own easily repeated settings as opposed to having repeatable settings which all users must share since per user settings provide flexibility and versatility allowing a wider range of different uses to be extracted from the same device with less effort.

Conventional approaches require that users first login to a device such as an MFD and then use UI buttons which are programmed with actions and options. In practice requiring users to login is clumsy and a significant hurdle to adoption. Attempting to improve the user experience through more sophisticated hardware keyboards touch screens etc. requires a significant increase in device unit manufacturing cost.

There is therefore a need for a computer implemented method a system a device and a computer readable medium that provides a faster and more convenient operation of repeated actions on devices like MFDs user operable computing devices and associated cloud systems.

In implementations a computer implemented method for operating a multifunctional device MFD is disclosed. The computer implemented method can include receiving a identification information from a tag that is associated with a MFD identifying by a processor one or more operations based on the identification information that was received and transmitting the one or more operations to the MFD.

In implementations the identification information is received from the tag over a near field communication protocol.

In implementations the one or more operations transmitted to the MFD can be transmitted over a communications protocol comprising TWAIN WS Scan EIP or Web Services for Devices.

In implementations the one or more operations comprises operations provided to the MFD can include any or combinations of scanning printing faxing formatting selecting paper size selecting paper quality storage and combinations thereof.

In implementations the MFD can comprise devices that comprise capabilities including any or combinations of scanning printing faxing and combinations thereof.

In implementations the method can further comprise initializing the identification information of the tag with the one or more operations to be performed by the MFD associated with the tag.

In implementations the tag can be operable to communicate using near field communication radio frequencies or a Bluetooth protocol.

In implementations the tag can be a active tag with an associated power source or a passive tag. The tag can be a computational tag or a passive tag.

In implementations the one or more operations can comprise instructions to the MFD instructions to a computing device that received the identification information instructions to a third party network service instructions that are human readable and human actionable or combinations thereof. The third party network service can comprises a back end workflow service.

In implementations a device is disclosed that can comprise one or more processors and a non transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising receiving a identification information from a tag that is associated with a MFD identifying one or more operations based on the identification information that was received and transmitting the one or more operations to the MFD.

In implementations the one or more processors can be further operable to execute the computer executable components stored within the memory to perform initializing the identification information of the tag with the one or more operations associated with the tag.

In implementations a computer implemented method for operating a multifunctional device MFD is disclosed. The computer implemented method can comprise selecting a tag from among one or more tags wherein at least the tag that was selected comprises identification information associated with one or more operations receiving the identification information from the tag identifying the one or more operations based on the identification information that was received and transmitting the one or more operations to the MFD.

In implementations each of the one or more tags can be differentiable by a property selected any or combination of color size and shape.

In implementations the one or more operations can comprise operations including any or combinations of scanning printing faxing formatting selecting paper size selecting paper quality and storage.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. When appropriate the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present teachings are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information systems and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present teachings. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific exemplary embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the exemplary embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present teachings. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present teachings is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

In general aspects consistent with the present teachings provide a computer implemented method a device and a non transitory computer readable medium for a user selectable and customizable capability for control and operation of a MFD using one or more computational tags associated with the MFD. Implementations consistent with the present teachings allow computing devices such as mobile computing devices like smart phones laptops tablet devices to communication with readable passive tags such as tags communicating using a Near Field Communication NFC protocol to provide a flexible method for storing and selecting user settings in a single touch on a device like an MFD. The tags can include either a computer readable volatile or non volatile memory that can store one or more unique identifiers and be read and or written to be the computing devices The one or more tags can be passive so that the MFD does not itself need to support NFC hardware which is provided by the computing device. The tags may also be computational. In an example implementation multiple NFC tags can be provided on the MFD and named or color coded. A user can use a mobile device to associate an action and set of options with a tag after which activating the tag for example but not limiting to by touching the tag with the mobile device triggers the action with the given options. The user can associate different actions and options with the other tags. The association can be determined by the computing device rather than the tags themselves so that different users can associate different actions with the same tags. This allows the ability to provide a flexible and inexpensive way to simplify expedite and personalize device operation using passive tags.

In implementations one or more tags can be positioned onto or near a device such as an MFD and used by a computing device that can be operable to read identifiers from the tags. If the tags are blank and contain no built in identifiers which can be read then the tags must be writeable so that they can be initialized by writing unique identifiers onto them. Likewise if a tag class e.g. color identifier is not built in to the tag the tag must be writeable so that it can be initialized with it. For example the user can choose to associate actions such as scan double sided color legal size to xyz gmail.com with a first tag. Later the user can approach the device and activate the first tag with the computing device where the device then performs the actions associated with the first tag. Another user can associate using their own computing device a second set of one or more operations such as fax double sided black and white legal and fax to 555 4234 with the first tag. When that user activates the tag those operations are communicated and performed by the device. Likewise any user may associate different action option combinations with the other tags being limited only by the number of tags provided. In this way the same tag can mean different things to different users and different tags can mean different things to the same user.

In implementations the user can have the ability of always associating a particular tag for example tag A with an action option combination regardless of the device it is attached to or instead to make that depend on the device the tag is attached to so that activating tag A on device X means something different to activating tag A on device Y. This can be accomplished by giving each tag a unique identifier specific to that instance of the tag only and an additional identifier for its class e.g. its color which is shared by all tags in the class e.g. all tags that color. Actions can then be keyed either to the unique tag identifier or to the tag class identifier.

As depicted in computing device can be any kind of device capable of communicating with tags MFD and server . Computing device for example but not limited to can be a personal computing device such as a smartphone a cellular phone a handheld mobile device a table device a laptop computer a portable computer and the like capable of executing custom applications. MFD can be any machine that can operatively perform at least one of the following functions printing scanning transmitting or receiving facsimiles or copying.

Computing device can communicate with tags and MFD and optionally server during the course of running MFD communication application or application . Applications may refer to any kind of program or application that is capable of operating or executing on computing device whether to provide features intended for user interaction or simply to provide underlying services used by computing device or an operating system executing thereon. For example throughout this application for the purpose of explaining certain exemplary operations only reference will be made to one or more application that provides functionality for allowing computing device and thus the user of the device to control and communicate operations associated with MFD using tags and optionally by interaction with server .

Computing device can also communicate with server over communications network . Application running on computing device can be operable to instruct computing device to open a communication channel with server over communication network and can be operable to initiate communications with tags . Server can be a centrally located server in proximity to computing device and or tags a distributed server located over many remote locations or a cloud based server. Server can be any kind of device capable of communicating with computing device in order to provide additional functionality to computing device with respect to tags and MFD .

Communications network may comprise one or more wired networks such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN etc. and may also provide for wireless communications using wireless protocols such as wireless Ethernet Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX long Term Evolution LTE Bluetooth etc.

Tags also called smart tags or info tags are devices that includes computer readable memory and a radio chip attached to an antenna that is operable to communicate using near field communication NFC technology over radio frequencies RF or using Bluetooth. Tags can be active where they include their own power source or passive where they do not include a power source to power operations and relies upon other devices to provide power through magnetic induction such as computing device the term passive is applied to characterize these tags. For example but not limited to tags can be a NFC tag of types 1 4. The computer readable storage on tags can store information including but not limited to identification information a network address of a MFD associated with the tag or other unique reference associated with the MFD in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure. In implementations the information stored on tag can allow application executing on computing device to not only read the identifier of tag and thus determine the required operation and options but also the network address of MFD that is being controlled when tag is activated by computing device .

In implementations computing device can communicate with MFD over a secured communication protocol such as a virtual private network using an indirect connection through a shared rendezvous point. Other secured and or encrypted communication protocols can also be used. In this implementation tag can also store information that can be used by computing device to establish a secured communications connection with MFD .

In implementations tag can include information that can be continually refreshed and read by computing device to provide proof that computing device and thus the user has been within proximity of MFD . For example tag can store a one time use code that can be read by computing device . Once the one time use code has been read a new code can be stored on tag . The one time use code can then be used to establish that the user has been within proximity of MFD .

Tags can be affixed to a fixed physical location such as a wall or can be affixed to a device such as MFD like a document processing device. Other suitable locations and devices with which tags can be affixed to or associated with could be also used as would be apparent. Tags can also be built into the physical housing of a device protected behind a transparent plaque or otherwise conveniently incorporated more or less noticeably into a physical environment. Tags can also be intergraded with objects they are affixed to using for example an active near field communication NFC hotspot.

By way of a non limiting example tags can include individual tags and associated with or connected to MFD . Although three individual tags are shown and described this is merely an example. A single tag may be used or two or more tags may be used. In implementations individual tags and can be made distinguishable in one or more ways including their appearance i.e. by color shape size position or in their naming convention. For example in one implementation individual tags and may be color coded where tag is red tag is yellow and tag is blue. In other implementation individual tags and may have different shapes where tag is circular tag Db is triangular and tag is rectangular. Other manners of distinguishing among tags can be used.

Computing device using application or another suitable application can initialize tags by providing one or more tags with a unique identification code which can be stored in a memory of each one or more tags . This can be done prior or while each of the one or more tags are associated with or to connected to i e. affixed to MFD . Additional information can also be stored within the memory of each of the one or more tags for example but not limited to a network address or other unique identifiers of MFD associated with a particular tag. The information stored on computing device and or tags can also be provided to server via network for storage and later retrieval. In implementations computing device can use a device serial number or other unique device identified stored in the memory of the tags to determine a device address of the MFD using a network service or network discovery lookup procedure.

In implementations computing device using application or another suitable application can then associate ore or more actions to be performed by MFD in a memory of computing device . Application can then control operations of MFD when computing device comes within proximity of one of the one or more tags for which the unique identification code associated with MFD and one or more operations to be performed by the MFD have been associated. By allowing individual computing devices to store information related to one or more tags MFD and operations associated with MFD each user can then associate different operations with the same tag. For example user A can associate the operations including scan double sided color legal size and send to email address userA xerox.com and user B can associate operations scan double sided letter size and send to email address userB xerox.com and file a copy of the document in a Microsoft Sharepoint document repository R with the same tag.

In implementations each of the one or more tags can store the one or more operations to be performed by MFD . For example tag can be initialized by user A using application executing on computing device and instructed to associate one or more operations with application of user A. In this example the one or more operations stored in the memory of tag includes scan double sided color legal size and send to email address userA xerox.com. When another user such as user B approaches and selects tag associated with MFD the same operations scan double sided color legal size and send to email address userA xerox.com would be presented to user B. In this example user B would not be able to customize the operations of MFD associated with tag using this method since tag has those operations stored within the memory of tag . Instead the association would have to be made within the user s computing device or some network service accessible to it.

MFD can communicate with computing device using communication network including various wired and wireless communication protocols and or platforms similar to communications network . MFD and computing device can interact over these communication protocols and or platforms using a variety of control protocols and methods including but not limited to TWAIN Web Services for Devices WDS which includes Microsoft Scan Service Definition WS Scan and Extensible Interface Platform EIP TWAIN is a software protocol and application programming interface API that regulates communication between software applications and imaging devices such as scanners and digital cameras. WS Scan by Microsoft Corporation is a web services protocol specification for consumer scanning peripheral. EIP by Xerox Corporation is a software platform using web based tools can be used to create server based application that can be configured for a user interface of MFD .

By way of a non limiting example a user carries a mobile device such as computing device which has hardware and or software capable of communicating with tag MFD and optionally server . Application executable by computing device is operable to instruct computing device to open a communications channel with MFD and control MFD for example using one or more protocols discussed above. Application can be operable to instruct MFD to perform various functions such as scan image options and destination addresses for the scans to be delivered to and likewise for faxing copying and other operations.

As illustrated in computing device can include one or more processors of varying core configurations and clock frequencies. Computing device can also include one or more memory devices that serve as a main memory during the operation of computing device . Computing device can also include one or more peripheral interfaces such as keyboards mice touchpads computer screens touchscreens etc. for enabling human interaction with and manipulation of computing device .

Computing device can also include one or more network interfaces for communicating via one or more networks such as Ethernet adapters wireless transceivers or serial network components for communicating over wired or wireless media using protocols such as Ethernet wireless Ethernet Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE etc. Computing device can also include one or more storage device of varying physical dimensions and storage capacities such as flash drives hard drives random access memory etc. for storing data such as images files and program instructions for execution by the one or more processors . One or more software programs can be stored in the one or more memory devices and or on in the one or more storage devices . For example the one or more software program can include the OS the data usage service and any other software program utilized by computing device .

In embodiments the components of computing device need not be enclosed within a single enclosure or even located in close proximity to one another. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the above described componentry are examples only as computing device can include any type of hardware componentry including any necessary accompanying firmware or software for performing the disclosed embodiments. Computing device can also be implemented in part or in whole by electronic circuit components or processors such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs 

Certain embodiments described above can be performed as a computer applications or programs. The computer program can exist in a variety of forms both active and inactive. For example the computer program can exist as one or more software programs software modules or both that can be comprised of program instructions in source code object code executable code or other formats firmware program s or hardware description language HDL files. Any of the above can be embodied on a computer readable medium which include computer readable storage devices and media and signals in compressed or uncompressed form. Exemplary computer readable storage devices and media include conventional computer system RAM random access memory ROM read only memory EPROM erasable programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM and magnetic or optical disks or tapes. Exemplary computer readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not are signals that a computer system hosting or running the present teachings can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. Concrete examples of the foregoing include distribution of executable software program s of the computer program on a CD ROM or via Internet download. In a sense the Internet itself as an abstract entity is a computer readable medium. The same is true of computer networks in general.

While the teachings have been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. As used herein the terms one or more of and at least one of with respect to a listing of items such as for example A and B means A alone B alone or A and B. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

