---

title: Service consumption based on gamification level classification
abstract: Methods and systems of enabling service consumption based on gamification level classification are described. A request to use a first service of a service provider may be received from a user. A usage measure for the user and a first usage measure requirement for the first service of the service provider may be determined. The usage measure may be a measure of how much the user has used services of the service provider. It may be determined if the usage measure satisfies the first usage measure requirement. The user may be enabled to use the first service of the service provider in response to a determination that the usage measure satisfies the first usage measure requirement. The stored usage measure may be increased by a first amount in response to the user using the first service. The usage measure may be a level classification or a number of points.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350625&OS=09350625&RS=09350625
owner: SAP SE
number: 09350625
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130625
---
The present application relates generally to the technical field of data processing and in various embodiments to methods and systems of enabling service consumption based on gamification level classification.

Today there are several Platform as a Service PaaS offerings. However not many of them are profitable. The PaaS provider is faced with the dichotomy of aggressive promotion and growth of the number of users of the platform on the one hand and on the other hand keeping the cost per user down. The key cost per user factor is the cost of required support. There are different categories of users each with their own skill set and demand for more specific support. The main cost drivers are not the few users that require expert support but rather the large number of users that are not highly skilled and use features beyond their current scope.

Example methods and systems of enabling service consumption based on gamification level classification are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

The techniques disclosed herein may limit the services that require a certain skill set to the respective group of more proficient users. Restrictions may be made on who may consume the services. In some embodiments this restriction may be achieved by classifying the offered services into different levels e.g. beginner intermediate expert . As a result of this classification not all users can access advanced services which means that not all users can request support for these services. In some embodiments the classification is implemented in such a way that the beginner services require very little to no support and may be properly understood with static support such as frequently asked questions FAQ s Wikis videos and other once off support material. Coupling gamification levels to platform service consumption may link the enterprise to the consumer developer in such a form as to increase engagement for the developer while at the same time lowering total cost of ownership for the platform provider.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method may comprise receiving from a user a request to use a first service of a service provider determining a usage measure for the user and a first usage measure requirement for the first service of the service provider determining if the usage measure satisfies the first usage measure requirement and enabling by a machine having a memory and a processor the user to use the first service of the service provider in response to a determination that the usage measure satisfies the first usage measure requirement. The usage measure for the user may be a measure of how much the user has used services of the service provider.

In some embodiments the usage measure may be a level classification and the first usage measure requirement may be a minimum level classification required to use the first service of the service provider. In some embodiments the usage measure may be a number of points and the first usage measure requirement may be a minimum number of points required to use the first service of the service provider.

In some embodiments the method may further comprise storing the usage measure and increasing the stored usage measure by a first amount in response to the user using the first service. In some embodiments the method may further comprise receiving from the user a request to use a second service of the service provider the second service being different from the first service determining the stored usage measure for the user and a second usage measure requirement for the second service of the service provider determining if the stored usage measure satisfies the second usage measure requirement and enabling the user to use the second service of the service provider in response to a determination that the stored usage measure satisfies the second usage measure requirement. In some embodiments the method may further comprise increasing the stored usage measure by a second amount in response to the user using the second service of the service provider the second amount being different from the first amount.

In some embodiments the method may further comprise presenting the user with a proposal to use an alternative service of the service provider instead of the first service in response to a determination that the usage measure does not satisfy the first usage measure requirement but that the usage measure does satisfy an alternative usage measure requirement for the alternative service and enabling the user to use the alternative service of the service provider.

In some embodiments a system comprises a machine having a memory and at least one processor. The machine may be configured to receive from a user a request to use a first service of a service provider determine a usage measure for the user and a first usage measure requirement for the first service of the service provider determine if the usage measure satisfies the first usage measure requirement and enable the user to use the first service of the service provider in response to a determination that the usage measure satisfies the first usage measure requirement. The usage measure for the user may be a measure of how much the user has used services of the service provider.

In some embodiments the usage measure may be a level classification and the first usage measure requirement may be a minimum level classification required to use the first service of the service provider. In some embodiments the usage measure may be a number of points and the first usage measure requirement may be a minimum number of points required to use the first service of the service provider.

In some embodiments the machine may be further configured to store the usage measure and increase the stored usage measure by a first amount in response to the user using the first service. In some embodiments the machine may be further configured to receive from the user a request to use a second service of the service provider the second service being different from the first service determine the stored usage measure for the user and a second usage measure requirement for the second service of the service provider determine if the stored usage measure satisfies the second usage measure requirement and enable the user to use the second service of the service provider in response to a determination that the stored usage measure satisfies the second usage measure requirement. In some embodiments the machine may be further configured to increase the stored usage measure by a second amount in response to the user using the second service of the service provider. The second amount may be different from the first amount.

In some embodiments the machine is further configured to present the user with a proposal to use an alternative service of the service provider instead of the first service in response to a determination that the usage measure does not satisfy the first usage measure requirement but that the usage measure does satisfy an alternative usage measure requirement for the alternative service and enable the user to use the alternative service of the service provider.

In some embodiments a non transitory machine readable storage device may store a set of instructions that when executed by at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform the operations and method steps discussed within the present disclosure.

Turning specifically to the example enterprise application platform web servers and Application Program Interface API servers may be coupled to and provide web and programmatic interfaces to application servers . The application servers may be in turn coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . The web servers Application Program Interface API servers application servers and database servers may host cross functional services . The application servers may further host domain applications .

The cross functional services provide services to users and processes that utilize the enterprise application platform . For instance the cross functional services may provide portal services e.g. web services database services and connectivity to the domain applications for users that operate the client machine the client server machine and the small device client machine . In addition the cross functional services may provide an environment for delivering enhancements to existing applications and for integrating third party and legacy applications with existing cross functional services and domain applications . Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the embodiments of the present disclosure are of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system.

The portal modules may enable a single point of access to other cross functional services and domain applications for the client machine the small device client machine and the client server machine . The portal modules may be utilized to process author and maintain web pages that present content e.g. user interface elements and navigational controls to the user. In addition the portal modules may enable user roles a construct that associates a role with a specialized environment that is utilized by a user to execute tasks utilize services and exchange information with other users and within a defined scope. For example the role may determine the content that is available to the user and the activities that the user may perform. The portal modules include a generation module a communication module a receiving module and a regenerating module. In addition the portal modules may comply with web services standards and or utilize a variety of Internet technologies including Java J2EE SAP s Advanced Business Application Programming Language ABAP and Web Dynpro XML JCA JAAS X.509 LDAP WSDL WSRR SOAP UDDI and Microsoft .NET.

The relational database modules may provide support services for access to the database s which includes a user interface library . The relational database modules may provide support for object relational mapping database independence and distributed computing. The relational database modules may be utilized to add delete update and manage database elements. In addition the relational database modules may comply with database standards and or utilize a variety of database technologies including SQL SQLDBC Oracle MySQL Unicode JDBC.

The connector and messaging modules may enable communication across different types of messaging systems that are utilized by the cross functional services and the domain applications by providing a common messaging application processing interface. The connector and messaging modules may enable asynchronous communication on the enterprise application platform .

The Application Program Interface API modules may enable the development of service based applications by exposing an interface to existing and new applications as services. Repositories may be included in the platform as a central place to find available services when building applications.

The development modules may provide a development environment for the addition integration updating and extension of software components on the enterprise application platform without impacting existing cross functional services and domain applications .

Turning to the domain applications the customer relationship management application may enable access to and may facilitate collecting and storing of relevant personalized information from multiple data sources and business processes. Enterprise personnel that are tasked with developing a buyer into a long term customer may utilize the customer relationship management applications to provide assistance to the buyer throughout a customer engagement cycle.

Enterprise personnel may utilize the financial applications and business processes to track and control financial transactions within the enterprise application platform . The financial applications may facilitate the execution of operational analytical and collaborative tasks that are associated with financial management. Specifically the financial applications may enable the performance of tasks related to financial accountability planning forecasting and managing the cost of finance.

The human resource applications may be utilized by enterprise personnel and business processes to manage deploy and track enterprise personnel. Specifically the human resource applications may enable the analysis of human resource issues and facilitate human resource decisions based on real time information.

The product life cycle management applications may enable the management of a product throughout the life cycle of the product. For example the product life cycle management applications may enable collaborative engineering custom product development project management asset management and quality management among business partners.

The supply chain management applications may enable monitoring of performances that are observed in supply chains. The supply chain management applications may facilitate adherence to production plans and on time delivery of products and services.

The third party applications as well as legacy applications may be integrated with domain applications and utilize cross functional services on the enterprise application platform .

In some embodiments gamification techniques may be employed to engage users in a way that keeps support costs low for a service provider. Gamification is the use of game thinking and game mechanics in a non game context in order to engage users and solve problems. Gamifications may provide a way of engaging people and letting them participate with a service provider system in an exciting and engaging manner.

In some embodiments a service provider may set the restrictions to its offered PaaS services. This restriction scheme may be accomplished by classifying the offered services into different levels e.g. beginner intermediate expert advanced . The idea behind this technique is that not all users can access advanced services and therefore not all users can request support for these services thereby keeping support costs low. In some embodiments the classification is implemented in such a way that the services classified as being for beginners require very little to no support and may be properly understood with static support such as FAQ s Wikis videos and other once off support material. Users may be rewarded for using services of the service provider by having their classification level increased.

In some embodiments when a user begins using the services of a service provider that user may be assigned a usage measure. The usage measure may be any measure that indicates how much the user has used or consumed services of the service provider. Examples of usage measures include but are not limited to points levels and badges. Although points and levels are referred to throughout this disclosure it is contemplated that other forms of usage measures may be used in their place and are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments a user may be initially assigned a usage measure that reflects a beginner level classification when the user first registers with or begins using the services of the service provider. As the user consumes more services of the service provider the user s usage measure may be adjusted to reflect the fact that the user is using the services more and becoming more experienced with them. For example if the usage measure is a number of points the user s points total may be increased in response to the user consuming a service. In some embodiments the user may also be assigned a level classification e.g. beginner intermediate expert advanced based on the user s point total. It is contemplated that other usage measure schemes are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Each classification level may have corresponding services that a user having that classification level may be allowed to use. In one example shown in users having a usage measure corresponding to BEGINNER services may be restricted to only using a first set of services e.g. read only services users having a usage measure corresponding to INTERMEDIATE services may be restricted to only using the first set of services and a second set of services e.g. write services mash ups and joins and users having a usage measure corresponding to EXPERT services may use be restricted to only using the first set of services the second set of service and a third set of services e.g. user management services security services and operating system OS level services .

By only allowing basic services to BEGINNER users the service provider may avoid having the BEGINNER users ask questions about the more advanced services because the BEGINNER users simply do not have access to them. In this scheme BEGINNER users may gradually be able to access these services once they have reached a certain level e.g. by increasing their usage measure through using services corresponding to their current level classification. It is contemplated that the number of levels used and what points and thresholds are defined for each border between these levels may vary.

The mapping of the required usage measures e.g. points to the available services may be performed by a gamification engine which will be discussed in further detail below. This mapping metadata may be stored in a metadata repository of the gamification engine. One example of a point access scheme is shown in the following table 

In this example BEGINNER services e.g. read only services require a user to have 0 points in order for the user to consume them so a user can begin using them right away when first interacting with the service provider. Upon consumption of these BEGINNER services a user may be awarded 10 points. The more a user uses these BEGINNER services the more points the user acquires which brings the user closer to being able to use the next level of services which in this example are the INTERMEDIATE services. Here INTERMEDIATE services e.g. mash ups joins and write services require a user to have 100 points in order for the user to consume them and they result in the user being awarded 100 points upon their consumption. Finally in this example EXPERT services e.g. user management services security services and OS level services require a user to have 1 000 points in order for the user to consume them and they result in the user being awarded 500 points upon their consumption. It is contemplated that other service classifications and corresponding usage measure requirements and awards may be employed within the scope of the present disclosure. A service provider may define any number of levels and any point thresholds and awards that fit into the service provider s scenario.

As a result of only allowing users access to a restricted set of services and then slowly leveling them up in a way based on their usage of this restricted set of services a service provider may ensure that the questions they are receiving are based on a minimum level of experience users have with the services of the service provider.

In some embodiments the usage measure may be a level classification and the first usage measure requirement may be a minimum level classification required to use the first service of the service provider. In some embodiments the usage measure may be a number of points and the first usage measure requirement may be a minimum number of points required to use the first service of the service provider. It is contemplated that other types of usage measures and usage measure requirements are also within the scope of the present invention.

In some embodiments the gamification system may be further configured to store the usage measure and to increase the stored usage measure by a first amount in response to the user using the first service. In some embodiments the gamification system may also be configured to receive from the user a request to use a second service of the service provider. The second service may be different from the first service. The gamification system may then determine the stored usage measure for the user and a second usage measure requirement for the second service and determine if the stored usage measure satisfies the second usage measure requirement for the second service. The gamification system may be configured to enable the user to use the second service of the service provider in response to a determination that the stored usage measure satisfies the second usage measure requirement for the second service. In some embodiments the gamification system may increase the stored usage measure by a second amount in response to the user using the second service of the service provider. The second amount may be different e.g. greater than or less than the first amount.

In some embodiments the gamification system may be further configured to present the user with a proposal to use an alternative service of the service provider instead of the first service in response to a determination that the usage measure does not satisfy the first usage measure requirement but that the usage measure does satisfy an alternative usage measure requirement for the alternative service. The gamification system may then enable the user to use the alternative service of the service provider.

The gamification system may reside on or be otherwise communicatively or operationally coupled to an enterprise cloud PaaS system e.g. enterprise application platform in or some other service provider system. In some embodiments the gamification system may comprise a cloud service broker a gamification engine a service consumer master data repository and a service request agent .

A service consumer may request to use a service of the enterprise cloud PaaS system and may comprise any software application . In some embodiments someone writing code in an integrated development environment IDE and testing their Representational State Transfer REST or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP may call the enterprise cloud PaaS system . The software application may also be a finished application.

The service consumer may comprise any module or component that calls the enterprise cloud PaaS system to request a service. In some embodiments the cloud service broker receives the call and decides what to do with it. In one example the cloud service broker may receive a request from the service consumer for access to use a service classified as requiring an expert level. Here the cloud service broker may decide whether to grant the service consumer access to the expert service or to block access to that expert service. In some embodiments the cloud service broker communicates with other components in the enterprise cloud PaaS system in order to make and carry out this decision. In some embodiments the cloud service broker may communicate with the gamification engine and the service request agent in order to make and carry out this decision.

The cloud service broker may contact the gamification engine . The gamification engine may check to see if the service consumer has the right to access and use the service that it is requesting. The gamification engine may comprise the rules and requirements e.g. the usage measure requirements for access to the services of the PaaS system . The gamification engine may have a temporary metadata repository where it temporarily stores usage measures e.g. points and classification levels corresponding to service consumers e.g. users . If the service consumer frequently calls in then the usage measure of the service consumer may be cast in the temporary metadata repository of the gamification engine . If it is the very first time that the service consumer is calling in to request access to a service or if the service consumer does not call in very often then the gamification engine may look up the usage measure in the service consumer master data repository which may store this information for all registered service consumers .

The temporary metadata repository or the service consumer master data repository may provide the usage measure e.g. point or classification level or both of the service consumer . For example if the service consumer has 127 points then the service consumer may only be authorized to use beginner level and intermediate level services. The temporary metadata repository or the service consumer master data repository may provide any of this information. The gamification engine may then check that 127 points or the beginner and intermediate levels against the level of service that the service consumer is trying to request. If the service consumer is trying to request a service requiring that the service consumer be at an expert level then the gamification engine may determine that the service consumer is not authorized to use this service and provide this information to the cloud service broker which may then deny the service consumer access to use that service.

If on the other hand the usage measure of the service consumer is sufficient then the gamification engine may communicate this information back to the cloud service broker . The cloud service broker may then communicate this information with or send a request to the service request agent . The service request agent may then access a service repository which may comprise all of the services available on the enterprise cloud PaaS system . The service request agent may choose the appropriate service from the service repository and fulfill the call by enabling the service consumer to use the requested service. The service repository may have access to business data in a business data repository . The service repository may retrieve the business data from the business data repository and then provide it to the service request agent . The service request agent may communicate the business data back to the service broker which may then send it to the application . Upon completion of the service the service request agent may then report the completion of the service back to the service consumer master data repository which may then update the usage measure of the service consumer e.g. by adding points .

In some embodiments in order for the user to be recognized as an intermediate or advanced user the proficiency level must be added to the master data in the service consumer master data repository which may be performed within the enterprise cloud platform. The service consumer may call the cloud service broker and check to see if the user has sufficient points. For each usage of the service the user in return may be provided some points or some other increase in the user s usage measure.

In some embodiments if the usage measure in the service consumer master data repository is sufficient for the requested service then access to the service may be granted. A service handle may be returned by the service consumer master data repository . This service handle may identify the user with the appropriate proficiency level and also track the user s actions. If the user accesses different services then points are automatically added to the master data in the service consumer master data repository by the gamification engine . The gamification engine may temporarily store the actions of current users and update the service consumer master data in the service consumer master data repository accordingly. The gamification engine may provide notification to the user when the user reaches a new classification level which is when the portfolio of services the user may access is expanded.

At operation an application of a service consumer may send a request to the enterprise cloud PaaS system to consume a service. The application may call a service broker of the enterprise PaaS system. At operation the enterprise cloud PaaS system may receive the service request and a user identification ID of the service consumer. In some embodiments a service broker of the PaaS system may receive this information. At operation the gamification engine may query the service consumer master data repository for the usage measure for the user ID and the usage measure requirement for the requested service. At operation the gamification engine may determine whether access to the requested service should be granted to the service consumer based on whether the usage measure is sufficient to satisfy the usage measure requirement.

If it is determined that access to the requested service should not be granted then at operation the PaaS system may deny the user access to the requested service and propose another service for the service consumer to use one for which the corresponding usage measure requirement is satisfied by the usage measure. For example the PaaS system may inform the user that he or she does not have the right level for the requested service but that there are one or more other services that match the user s profile and skill level. At operation the service consumer may decide whether or not to use the proposed service. If the service consumer decides not to use the proposed service then the process may come to an end. If the service consumer decides to use the proposed service then the service consumer may request to consume the proposed service back at operation .

If at operation it is determined that access to the requested service should be granted then at operation the PaaS system may return a service handle to the service consumer. The service handle may be a secure ID that the service consumer may use in the future as identification of what classification of services the user is authorized to use thereby avoiding redundant steps because the user has already shown that he or she the right authorization level the first time. For subsequent requests the gamification engine check may be bypassed and the service may simply be called.

At operation the service consumer may receive the service handle. At operation the service consumer may call the service using the service handle. At operation the PaaS system may fulfill the service request and provide the service consumer with access to the requested service. At operation the service consumer may perform application logic in using the requested service. On the PaaS system side after the service consumer uses the service at operation the gamification engine may be updated by being informed of this use of the service. At operation the gamification engine in turn may update the service consumer master data and the gamification engine metadata.

At operation the gamification engine may determine whether or not the user has reached a new level of access to services. For example the gamification engine may check to see if the user s updated usage measure has been updated in a way that satisfies a usage measure requirement of a level of services that the user s usage measure previously did not satisfy. If the user s updated usage measure does satisfy a usage measure requirement of a level of services that the user s usage measure previously did not satisfy then the user has reached a new level of services and may be informed of the availability of this new level of services at operation . If the user s updated usage measure does not satisfy a usage measure requirement of a level of services that the user s usage measure previously did not satisfy then the process may come to an end.

At operation a gamification system may store a usage measure for a user and usage measure requirements for services being made available by a service provider. At operation the gamification system may receive a request to use one of the services from the user. At operation the gamification system may determine the usage measure of the user and the usage measure requirement for the requested service. At operation the gamification system may determine whether the usage measure of the user satisfies the usage measure requirement for the requested service.

If the usage measure of the user satisfies the usage measure requirement then at operation the gamification system may enable the user to use the requested service. Then at operation the gamification system may update e.g. add points to the usage measure of the user to reflect the use of the requested service. The method may then come to an end.

If the usage measure of the user does not satisfy the usage measure requirement then at operation the gamification system may deny the user access to the requested service propose an alternative service that has a usage measure requirement which the usage measure satisfies.

At operation the gamification system may then determine whether the user has requested to use the proposed alternative service. If the user has not requested to use the proposed alternative service then the method may come to an end. If the user has requested to use the proposed alternative service then at operation the gamification system may enable the user to use the proposed alternative service. The gamification system may then at operation update the usage measure of the user to reflect the use of the proposed alternative service. The method may then come to an end.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the network of and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

A computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the static memory .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and compact disc read only memory CD ROM and digital versatile disc or digital video disc read only memory DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

