---

title: Method and apparatus for providing user authentication and identification based on a one-time password
abstract: An approach is provided for authenticating and/or identifying a user through machine-transferrable one-time password codes. A user device sends to an authentication platform a request for a one-time password for authenticating a user at a relying party device. A machine readable form of the one-time password deliverable to the relying party device over an air gap between the user device and the relying party device is determined and transmitted. The relying party device reverts the machine readable form back to the one-time password, and transmits the one-time password to the authentication platform to authenticate the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100392&OS=09100392&RS=09100392
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09100392
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130920
---
Given the reliance on computers computing devices e.g. cellular telephones laptop computers personal digital assistants and the like and automated systems e.g. automated teller machines kiosks etc. to conduct secure transactions and or access private data user authentication is critical. Traditional approaches to user authentication involve utilizing user identification and one time passwords OTPs distributed through a secure channel provide an additional level of security to a login authentication. Unfortunately manual translation of these OTPs from the offpath channel device to the requesting relying party device i.e. across the air gap can lead to errors. In short authentication mechanisms that rely on traditional one time passwords pose security risks. Therefore there is a need for an approach that can use one time passwords with minimal human interaction and translation errors.

A preferred apparatus method and software for authenticating based on machine transferrable one time password codes are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term machine transferrable one time password code refers to any form of nonhuman input communication wherein one or more one time passwords are communicated either in place of human input one time passwords or together and in parallel with human input one time passwords. The term one time password refers to a password that is valid for only one login session e.g. enterprise network or transaction e.g. bank account and or for a predetermined period of time then expires. Machine transferrable one time password codes can include one or more images e.g. text 2D graphic 3D graphic etc. of the one time passwords as is scrambled encrypted watermarked etc. that is on a user device or another device e.g. a smart phone TV set top box kiosk rental media player etc. controlled by and or in the proximity of the user device etc. one or more audio signals e.g. machine generated sound tone volume pitch expression pronunciation pauses accents emphasis and of course periods of silence etc. of the one time password as is scrambled encrypted etc. that is rendered via the user device or another device e.g. a smart phone TV set top box kiosk rental media player speaker intercom etc. one or more machine readable signals and or codes e.g. propagating electrical or and electromagnetic signals such as LED lights in time sequence in visual array etc. Bluetooth near field communications etc. radar Infrared IR etc.

One time passwords avoid replay attacks such as recording an OTP since OTPs can be used only once. One time passwords also avoid dictionary attacks phishing keyboard logging interception and other security breaches. However OTPs are difficult for human beings to memorize and thus subject to a greater likelihood of human entry errors.

As a result a system of introduces the capability to use machine transferrable one time password codes carried through image sound vocal or a combination thereof. The system includes a user a trust system with media capabilities that needs authentication e.g. a PC or an website etc. from the user a network with access to a one time password OTP framework platform e.g. Verizon Universal Identity Services UIS and an off path device e.g. a smart phone tablet etc. with media capabilities and a software client to relay the OTP back to the trust system.

Although various embodiments are discussed with respect to machine transferrable visual one time password codes it is contemplated that the various embodiments described herein are applicable to any type of machine transferrable one time password codes e.g. machine transferrable audio one time password codes transitory wireless machine transferrable one time password codes and the like .

In one embodiment the user opens a browser and accesses the off path device that requires user authentication. The website prompts for a User ID and One time Password. The user submits the User ID based upon which the UIS recognizes the user and creates sends a one time password OTP via a user s predefined off path channel to the user s device. The user device can execute an authentication maneuver involving at least one authentication factor that includes one or more automated OTP transfers and conversion such as converting an OTP e.g. 12345678 into a barcode Quick Response QR code audio tones e.g. DTMF musical phrases or human inaudible frequencies pat data for transmission over near field communications NFC ad hoc WiFi Bluetooth Z Wave XBee other local RF communications or a combination thereof.

The system specifically authentication platform in combination with devices then converts transfers or captures reverts by way of example one or more machine transferrable visual one time password codes e.g. images or videos to provide a more authoritative authentication identification of a user. By way of example the video can be in a format e.g. Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG format e.g. MPEG 2 Audio Layer III MP3 Windows media format e.g. Windows Media Video WMV Audio Video Interleave AVI format as well as new and or proprietary formats.

The machine transferrable one time password codes e.g. machine transferrable visual one time password codes can be recognized identified and reverted back to the one time password by the off path device to transmit to the system to authenticate the user.

By way of illustration typical machine transferrable visual one time password codes include but are not limited to human visible images e.g. text 2D graphic 3D graphic etc. . These machine transferrable visual one time password codes include bar codes QR codes icons avatars etc. Nonhuman visible machine transferrable one time password codes may also be used. For example near infrared NIR signals the Medium Wavelength IR MWIR signals and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared LWIR or FIR signals may constitute nonhuman visible machine transferrable OTPs though other animals may experience them etc. In one embodiment any machine transferrable one time password code capable of being captured can be converted by the user device and then captured via the air gap by the relying party device of the system for processing.

For the purpose of illustration the system includes various devices each of which is configured with respective cameras or other imaging devices to provide user authentication identification based on unique machine transferrable one time password codes e.g. machine transferrable visual one time password codes and optionally in conjunction with facial voice recognition or other authentication credentials . Such machine transferrable one time password codes can serve as authentication credentials to verify the identity of or otherwise authenticate the user.

By way of example when a user attempts to login using an authentication service supported by the system the user may open a browser on the user device e.g. a user s registered device such as a cell phone and access the relying party RP device that requested user authentication. The website displayed on the user device prompts a user ID and a one time password. The user submits the user ID at the user device . At this point the system recognizes the user ID creates a one time password and sends the OTP via a user s predefined off path channel to the user device .

The one or more machine transferrable one time password codes may be selected by the system by a user at the user device and or a user at the relying party device . In one embodiment the system selects the one or more machine transferrable one time password codes based on user preference. In another embodiment the system selects the one or more machine transferrable one time password codes based on the capabilities of the devices e.g. speaker microphone etc. 

In another embodiment the user at the user device creates a local QR code or local audio tones based on a received one time password. In another embodiment the relying party device requests the system to Send QR code or Send audio tones. 

In one embodiment the machine transferrable one time password code data is automatically generated and or retrieved by the platform from the backend data and or external information sources for example in a vector format. In another embodiment the machine transferrable one time password code data is generated at the user device based upon user personal data online interactions and related activities with respect to a specific authentication maneuver.

In one embodiment the machine transferrable one time password code data can be used for authentication and or identification whereby one or more actions may be initiated based upon results of the authentication and or identification. The actions may be granting access to one or more resources reporting failed authentication and or identification taking actions against illegal access attempts etc.

In this example the user device includes a user interface which in one embodiment is a graphical user interface GUI that is presented on a display not shown on the device for capturing machine transferrable visual one time password codes via the camera. As shown an authentication module resides within the user device to convert a one time password into one or more machine transferrable one time password codes. As such the approach of system can authenticate without using human entries thereby avoiding human entry errors.

By way of example the user device can be any type of computing device including a cellular telephone smart phone a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet a web appliance a personal digital assistant PDA and etc. Also the approach for authenticating users as described herein can be applied to other devices e.g. terminal which can include a point of sale terminal an automated teller machine a kiosk etc. In this example user device has a user interface and authentication module and sensors e.g. camera that permit users to convert a one time password into one or a set of machine transferrable OTP codes whereby the user device can transport the one or a set of machine transferrable OTP codes over an air gap to the relying party device for user verification by an authentication platform .

The authentication approach can be deployed within the relying party device as such the device e.g. a set top box a personal digital assistant etc. utilizes a user interface that operates with an authentication module and sensor s to permit access to the resources of the device for instance. By way of example the relying party device can include a PC an automated teller machine ATM a kiosk a point of sales POS terminal a vending machine etc.

In one embodiment one or more of the sensors of the relying party device determines for instance the one or a set of machine transferrable OTP codes received over the air gap such as images sound and light pressures etc. A range and a scale of the sensor data may be defined for each element images sound and light pressures etc. . By way of example a sound may be measured in decibel dB or range as low medium and loud. The sensor data can be used by the authentication platform to authenticate the user.

The relying party device and or the sensors are used to determine the one or a set of machine transferrable OTP codes. The sensors can be independent devices or incorporated into the relying party device . The sensors may include an accelerometer a gyroscope a compass a GPS device microphones touch screens light sensors or combinations thereof. The sensors can be a microphone a camera a keyboard a light detector a Bluetooth receiver a NFC receiver a radar receiver a head ear phone a wrist device a pointing device or a head mounted display. By way of example a camera built into the relying party device determines a QR code displayed on the screen of the user device . The user can wear a device around a waist wrist knee ankle etc. to determine machine transferrable OTP codes.

In one embodiment the relying party device has a built in light detector. The OTP light data is converted back to the OTP transmitted to the user device and sent to the system for authenticating the user. The OTP light data can be used independently or in conjunction with visual audio features to authenticate the user.

Other devices can include a mobile device or any information appliance device e.g. STB with an authentication module and one or more sensors. In one embodiment terminal e.g. point of sale ATM kiosk etc. can be implemented to include a user interface an authentication module and one or more sensors similar to those of the user device . It is observed that the described devices can store sensitive information as well as enable conducting sensitive transactions and thus require at a minimum the ability to authenticate the user s access to these resources.

The authentication platform maintains a user profile database that is configured to store user specific machine transferrable one time password code format selections along with the user identification ID of subscribers to the authentication service according to one embodiment. Users may establish one or more sub profiles including referencing machine transferrable one time password code format as well as other authentication credentials such as usernames passwords codes personal identification numbers PINs etc. relating to user authentication as well as user accounts and preferences. While user profiles database is depicted as an extension of service provider network it is contemplated that user profiles database can be integrated into collocated at or otherwise in communication with any of the components or facilities of system .

Moreover database may be maintained by a service provider of the authentication platform or may be maintained by any suitable third party. It is contemplated that the physical implementation of database may take on many forms including for example portions of existing repositories of a service provider new repositories of a service provider third party repositories and or shared repositories. As such database may be configured for communication over system through any suitable messaging protocol such as lightweight directory access protocol LDAP extensible markup language XML open database connectivity ODBC structured query language SQL and the like as well as combinations thereof. In those instances when database is provided in distributed fashions information and content available via database may be located utilizing any suitable querying technique such as electronic number matching distributed universal number discovery DUNDi uniform resource identifiers URI etc.

Communication network may include one or more networks such as data network service provider network telephony network and or wireless network . As seen in service provider network enables terminal to access the authentication services of platform via communication network which may comprise any suitable wireline and or wireless network. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other similar networks. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS third generation 3G fourth generation 4G Long Term Evolution LTE etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks and may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks and may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks and may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions. While specific reference will be made hereto it is contemplated that system may embody many forms and include multiple and or alternative components and facilities.

In one embodiment a complex grouping of machine transferrable one time password codes can be created either in series e.g. a set of LED flash pattern and then audio tones of the end of The Star Spangled Banner etc. in parallel e.g. a set of LED flash pattern concurrently with the audio tones or both. This for instance ensures that users have more freedom to define unique machine transferrable one time password codes. In this way only a specifically identified user may perform one or a set of machine transferrable one time password codes and be recognized to have caused the one or set of machine transferrable one time password codes.

In other embodiments the system provides for increased authentication factors by combining one or more machine transferrable one time password code with other authentication mechanisms such as image recognition e.g. facial recognition etc. The occurring process of each machine transferrable OTP code e.g. timing ranging etc. the transitions interfaces in between machine transferrable one time password codes e.g. an occurring order of the machine transferrable one time password codes timing and ranging of overlaps or interval in between machine transferrable one time password codes etc. some or all of the authentication factors can be recorded as an OTP feature vector an OTP sequence feature vector an OTP transition vector an multifactor authentication vector or a combination thereof in an authentication database for user authentication and or identification. Each of such entry in the database constitutes an authentication signature of the user. The system deploys the vectors based upon the context of the user authentication and or identification access policies etc.

By way of example an OTP feature vector of a machine transferrable visual OTP code includes shapes sizes positions timing ranging of one or more visual objects e.g. happy face crying face angry face etc. displayed on the user device that constitutes a machine transferrable visual one time password code. An OTP sequence feature vector of a sequence of machine transferrable OTP codes includes types timing ranges of machine transferrable visual OTP codes e.g. happy face crying sound LED pluses etc. rendered on the user device that constitutes a machine transferrable OTP code sequence. An OTP transition vector includes timing and range between two or more machine transferrable OTP codes. A multifactor authentication vector includes the types timing ranges of at least one machine transferrable OTP code and at least one other authentication mechanism e.g. passive password facial feature etc. .

After recording the authentication signatures the system can use one or more of the authentication signatures for user authentication and or identification. By way of example a city bicycle sharing system can identify a paid user by one textual password image on a smart phone that was issued via an SMS message. As another example a credit card company can use the system to authenticate a card holder by the types and sequence of their machine transferrable OTP codes.

Therefore the approach of system according to certain exemplary embodiments utilizes one or more machine transferrable one time password codes e.g. multiple authentication factors such as both image recognition and machine transferrable one time password code recognition to produce strong authentication with relatively more ease. That is the user may deploy one or a sequence of machine transferrable one time password codes without human entry errors.

Thereafter the user device converts the one time password e.g. 12345678 into a machine transferrable one time password code as is e.g. 12345678 scrambled e.g. 56781234 encrypted e.g. 0D watermarked etc. and displays the code on its own user interface or on the user interface of one or more devices e.g. a smart phone TV set top box kiosk rental media player etc. in its proximity. The machine transferrable one time password code is then transferred via an air gap to the relying party device . The relying party device then reverts the machine transferrable one time password code back to the one time password and sends it to the system for authenticating the user.

In one embodiment the user device displays the machine transferrable one time password code as an image e.g. text 2D graphic 3D graphic etc. on its own screen or on the screen of a stand alone device .

On the receiving side the relying party device uses a built in camera or a stand alone camera to capture the machine transferrable one time password code . Visual machine transferrable one time password code recognition can be conducted with techniques such as computer vision image processing etc. By way of example computer vision involves capturing machine transferrable one time password codes rendered via a computing device e.g. tablet smart phone laptop etc. .

As an additional authentication mechanism the user manually enters the one time password into an input device e.g. a keyboard a mouse a touch screen etc. of the relying party device or one or more devices e.g. a smart phone TV set top box kiosk rental media player etc. in its proximity.

In one embodiment the user device renders the machine transferrable one time password code as audible signals e.g. sound tone volume pitch expression pronunciation pauses accents emphasis and of course periods of silence etc. on its own speaker or on the speaker of a stand alone device e.g. a smart phone TV set top box kiosk rental media player speaker intercom etc. . On the receiving side the relying party device uses a built in or stand alone microphone to capture the machine transferrable one time password code .

For example known methods of sound voice analysis may be used to analyze the melody bass line and or chords in sound voice. Such methods may be based on for example using frame wise pitch salience estimates as features. These features may be processed by an acoustic model for note events and musicological modeling of note transitions. The musicological model may involve key estimation and note bigrams which determine probabilities for transitions between target notes. A transcription of a melody or a bass line may be obtained using Viterbi search via the acoustic model. Furthermore known methods for beat tempo and downbeat analysis may be used to determine rhythmic aspects of sound voice. Such methods may be based on for example measuring the degree of sound change or accent as a function of time from the sound signal and finding the most common or strongest periodicity from the accent signal to determine the sound tempo.

In one embodiment the user device renders the machine transferrable one time password code as light signals via one or more built in LED light emitters or on stand alone LED device . The machine transferrable one time password code may be encoded into various colors volumes patterns pauses etc. transferred via one or more LED emitters. By way of example 0 is coded as green LED light while 1 is coded as red LED light and each of the ASC control codes and characters may be encoded via 0 and 1. On the receiving side the relying party device uses a built in or a stand alone LED light receiver to capture the machine transferrable one time password code .

In various embodiments the user device renders the machine transferrable one time password code as electrical or and electromagnetic signals such as Bluetooth near field communications radar etc. via a Bluetooth transmitter a near field communications transmitter a radar transmitter etc. respectively. On the receiving side the relying party device uses a built in or a stand alone Bluetooth receiver a near field communications receiver radar receiver etc. respectively to capture the machine transferrable one time password code .

In step the authentication platform received from the user device a request for a one time password for authenticating a user at the relying party device . For example the request may be prompted when a user attempts to log into a system e.g. for accessing one or more services such as e commerce social networks gaming governmental or enterprise websites etc. . In one embodiment the request is initiated by the user specifying authentication credentials at the relying party device and wherein the authentication credentials include a user identifier. In another embodiment the user device is registered with the authentication system uses a user device identifier.

In one embodiment the user device is on an off path channel. An off path channel may be a secured channel within the same original path e.g. a web browser and a text messaging system on the same physical phone device or a physically distinct channel.

In step the authentication platform determines a media capability e.g. augmented reality flexible screens built in projector voice control 3D screens holograms etc. of the user device the relying party device or a combination thereof.

In step the authentication platform determines a machine readable form of the one time password wherein the machine readable form is deliverable to the relying party device over an air gap between the user device associated with the user and the relying party device . In one embodiment the determination of the machine readable form is further based on the media capability. In other embodiments the determination of the machine readable form is further based on a user preference a user selection a user history a service provider preference an attribute of the air gap or a combination thereof.

In other embodiments the machine readable form is determined by the user at the user device by the user at the relying party device by the authentication platform or a combination thereof. By way of examples the machine readable form is determined when the user device is registered with the authentication platform when the user device identifier is submitted at the relying party device or when the user device receives the one time password.

In various embodiments the machine readable form includes one or more audio based forms e.g. one or more human audio clips one or more human inaudible clips one or more human audio tones one or more human inaudible tones etc. one or more visual based forms e.g. human readable text one or more barcodes one or more two dimensional barcodes one or more three dimensional barcodes one or more images one or more photos one or more video clips one or more patterns for modulating light emitting modules of the user device etc. or a combination thereof and wherein a delivery method of the machine readable form includes an audio presentation a visual presentation a transfer over local wireless means e.g. NFC Bluetooth radar etc. or a combination thereof.

OTP generation algorithms typically make use of pseudo randomness or randomness to make it difficult to predict future OTPs by observing previous ones. Concrete OTP algorithms vary greatly in their details and each one has different benefits in terms of security convenience cost and accuracy. Such machine transferrable one time password code data may be generated with transaction number lists grid cards user information etc. Typical user information elements include a user identifier e.g. telephone number nationality age language preferences interest areas user device model login credentials to access the listed information resources of external links etc. An OTP token hardware device or smart card can be used to generate calculate one time passwords. The OTP token hardware device may be PIN protected. Smart cards may include additional authentication capabilities such as Public Key Infrastructure certificates PKI that range from encryption digital signature and private key generation and storage.

In step the authentication platform coordinates an activation of one or more sensors one or more presentation modules or a combination thereof for a delivery of the machine readable form from the user device to the relying party device . In one embodiment the coordination includes monitoring for one type of media before moving on to the next such as iterating through the plurality of media formats. By way of example in response to a passage of a predetermined time period or a change of one or more user selections one or more user preferences one or more user device capabilities one or more relying party device capabilities one or more air gap attributes or a combination thereof the authentication platform re determines transmitting the onetime password in another one of the plurality of media formats. In another embodiment the coordination includes simultaneously testing the plurality of media formats.

In step the authentication platform transmits the one time password a flag indicating the machine readable form as coded in Table 1 the machine readable form or a combination thereof to the user device . In one embodiment the user device receives the one time password and the flag and the user device uses the one time password as a seed to generate the machine readable form as indicated by the flag. The relying party device receives the machine readable form via the air gap and then converts the machine readable form to the one time password to authenticate the user.

As mentioned the above process has applicability in a number of applications that require authentication of the user. For example this non text based authentication process can be incorporated into the operating system of a computer. Also this process can be utilized at point of sale terminals for users to conduct commercial transactions. According to another embodiment user authentication can be deployed within an information appliance device e.g. a set top box to for example verify the user s identity for purchasing on demand content.

The above described embodiments of authentication platform include a repository and a processing system used to conform identity using factors processes static machine transferrable OTP code features the machine transferrable OTP code occurring processes transitions interfaces in between machine transferrable one time password codes etc. and combinations of factors processes to determine identity with high probability. Moreover platform is capable of storing processing and managing authentication machine transferrable OTP code records imprints sequences and prompting for additional requests to further increase the accuracy of identification.

The information appliance device may comprise any suitable technology to send user profile information and associated authentication credentials to the platform and receive a one time password a flag of machine transferrable OTP code format and or a machine transferrable one time password code.

In this example the information appliance device includes an input interface that also receives a machine transferrable one time password code transferred from the user device via one or more sensors e.g. a camera device a microphone etc. . Also an authentication module resides within the information appliance device to coordinate the authentication process with the authentication platform .

The information appliance device also includes a memory for storing the user profile information and associated authentication credentials the captured machine transferrable one time password code e.g. images audio data etc. for converting the codes back to one time passwords as well as instructions that are performed by a processor . The machine transferrable one time password codes may include machine transferrable one time password codes voice machine transferrable one time password code machine transferrable audio one time password codes or a combination thereof.

In some embodiments either the authentication module or an additional module of the information appliance device or the authentication platform or an additional module of the authentication platform separately or jointly performs machine transferrable one time password code conversion and or recognition. By way of example the authentication module converts one time passwords into a 2D or 3D machine transferrable visual one time password code via processing the code using a conversion formula or model and displaying the code on a built in screen. The conversion formula or model can be used to convert the one time password into different machine transferrable visual one time password codes.

As another example the authentication module uses a camera to capture a machine transferrable visual one time password code and reverts the code back to a one time password via processing the visual information from the camera identifying the key regions and elements such as colors shapes sizes etc. transforming the 2D information into 3D spatial data as necessary applying the 2D information or 3D spatial data to a reverting model e.g. an avatar mountain etc. . The reverting model can be used to revert the machine transferrable visual one time password code back to the one time password. In another embodiment the information appliance device determines error tolerance so as to reach desired recognition accuracy.

In one embodiment the information appliance device adopts the models to define a sequence of machine transferrable one time password codes as an n dimensional vector that combines format information the timing information and the relevant user information. In another embodiment the information appliance device also establishes a user e.g. Alice service e.g. purchasing movie tickets and machine transferrable one time password code from e.g. 2D bar code database. Such databases can be utilize by information appliance device the platform the user device and or the relying party device to determine subsequent machine transferrable one time password code forms for the user and or the service.

In other embodiments different forms of machine transferrable one time password codes are deployed together and or in conjunction with traditional authentication means to strengthen the authentication and or identification. By way of example the information appliance device measures a person s physiological state and or conditions e.g. a heart rate fingerprints etc. when performing various machine transferrable visual one time password codes e.g. 2D image of a one time password etc. . The information appliance device then utilizes both sets of data for authentication and or identification. As another example the information appliance device collects sounds generated by the speaker of the user device when capturing various machine transferrable visual one time password codes e.g. 3D images of encrypted one time password and then uses both sets of data for authentication and or identification.

In the above mentioned embodiments the information appliance device analyzes the plurality of data sets to determine one or more features of each of the machine transferrable one time password codes one or more features of the sequence of machine transferrable one time password codes or a combination thereof. The information appliance device then reverts the code s back to a one time password based on the features of the machine transferrable one time password code the features of the sequence of machine transferrable one time password codes or a combination thereof. The features include content information timing information ranging information or a combination thereof. The timing information includes a start time a stop time an overlapping period an interval or a combination thereof of the sequence of machine transferrable one time password codes. In one embodiment the information appliance device compares the features associated with the sequence of machine transferrable one time password codes against features of one or more pre stored sequences. The reversion of the one time password is based on the comparison.

Further the information appliance device e.g. a STB may also include suitable technology to receive one or more content streams from a media source not shown . The information appliance device may comprise computing hardware and include additional components configured to provide specialized services related to the generation modification transmission reception and display of one time passwords machine transferrable one time password codes profiles control commands and or content e.g. user profile modification capabilities conditional access functions tuning functions gaming functions presentation functions multiple network interfaces AV signal ports etc. . Alternatively the functions and operations of the information appliance device may be governed by a controller that interacts with each of the information appliance device components to configure and modify user profiles including machine transferrable one time password code form preference.

The information appliance device may be configured to process machine transferrable one time password codes to be presented on or at a display . Presentation of the machine transferrable one time password codes may be in response to a command received from input interface . The information appliance device still performs functions displaying recording playing rewinding forwarding toggling selecting zooming or any other processing technique that enables users to select customized content instances from a menu of options and or experience content.

The information appliance device may also interact with a digital video recorder DVR to store captured machine transferrable one time password codes that can be manipulated by a user at a later point in time. In various embodiments DVR may be network based e.g. included as a part of the service provider network collocated at a subscriber site having connectivity to the information appliance device and or integrated into the information appliance device .

Display may present menus and associated content provided via the information appliance device to a user. In alternative embodiments the information appliance device may be configured to communicate with a number of additional peripheral devices including PCs laptops PDAs cellular phones monitors mobile devices handheld devices as well as any other equivalent technology capable of presenting modified content to a user such as those computing telephony and mobile apparatuses described with respect to .

Communication interface may be configured to send user profile information from the authentication platform and to receive a one time password from the platform . In particular embodiments communication interface can be configured to receive content and applications e.g. online games from an external server not shown . As such communication interface may optionally include single or multiple port interfaces. For example the information appliance device may establish a broadband connection to multiple sources transmitting data to the information appliance device via a single port whereas in alternative embodiments multiple ports may be assigned to the one or more sources. In still other embodiments communication interface may receive and or transmit user profile information including modified content menu options and or modified content scheduling data .

According to various embodiments the information appliance device may also include inputs outputs e.g. connectors to display and DVR as well as an audio system . In particular audio system may comprise a conventional AV receiver capable of monaural or stereo sound as well as multichannel surround sound. Audio system may include speakers ear buds headphones or any other suitable component configured for personal or public dissemination. As such the information appliance device e.g. a STB display DVR and audio system for example may support high resolution audio and or video streams such as high definition television HDTV or digital theater systems high definition DTS HD audio for rendering machine transferrable one time password codes.

In an exemplary embodiment display and or audio system may be configured with internet protocol IP capability i.e. include an IP stack or otherwise made network addressable such that the functions of the information appliance device may be assumed by display and or audio system and controlled in part by command s associated with machine transferrable one time password codes. In this manner an IP ready HDTV display or DTS HD audio system may be directly connected to one or more service provider networks packet based networks and or telephony networks . Although the information appliance device display DVR and audio system are shown separately it is contemplated that these components may be integrated into a single component or other combinations of components.

An authentication module in addition to supporting the described OTP based authentication scheme may be provided at the information appliance device to initiate or respond to authentication schemes of for instance service provider network or various other content providers e.g. broadcast television systems third party content provider systems not shown . Authentication module may provide sufficient authentication information e.g. machine transferrable one time password codes a user name and passcode a key access number a unique machine identifier e.g. GUID or MAC address and the like as well as combinations thereof to a corresponding network interface for establishing connectivity and or user authentication. Further authentication information may be stored locally at memory in a repository not shown connected to the information appliance device or at a remote repository e.g. database of .

A presentation module may be configured to receive data streams and AV feeds and or control commands including user actions and output a result via one or more connectors to display and or audio system . Connector s may provide various physical interfaces to display audio system and the peripheral apparatuses the physical interfaces including for example RJ45 RJ11 high definition multimedia interface HDMI optical coax FireWire wireless and universal serial bus USB or any other suitable connector.

The presentation module may also interact with input interface for configuring e.g. modifying user profiles as well as determining particular machine transferrable one time password codes that a user desires to use. In an exemplary embodiment the input interface may provide an interface to a remote control or other access device having control capability such as a joystick video game controller or an end terminal e.g. a PC wireless device mobile phone etc. that provides a user with the ability to readily manipulate and dynamically modify parameters affecting user profile information and or machine transferrable one time password codes. Such parameters can include the information appliance device configuration data such as parental controls available channel information favorite channels program recording settings viewing history machine transferrable one time password code forms or loaded software as well as other suitable parameters.

An action module may be configured to determine one or more actions to take based upon the authenticating results from the authentication module . Such actions may be determined based upon resource access policies e.g. privacy policy security policy etc. for granting access to one or more resources and one or more action commands may be output via one or more connectors to display and or audio system or via the communication interface and the communication network to external entities. The resource may be an electronic object e.g. data a database a software application a website an account a game a virtual location etc. or a real life object e.g. a safe a mail box a deposit box a locker a device a machine a piece of equipment etc. . In one embodiment the policies may be initially selected by a user e.g. a bank manager at a user device e.g. a secured computer to ensure that collected data will only be utilized in certain ways or for particular purposes e.g. authorized user access to the user s account information .

In one embodiment the policy characteristics may include the access request context e.g. data type requesting time requesting frequency etc. whether the contexts are permitted by the respective policies the details of a potential actual validation of the access requests etc. By way of example the data type may be a name address date of birth marital status contact information ID issue and expiry date financial records credit information medical history travel location interests in acquiring goods and services etc. while the policies may define how data may be collected stored and released shared which may be on a per data type basis .

In the above mentioned embodiments the information appliance device and or the platform determine one or more access policies for at least one resource applies one or more of the access policies based at least in part upon the authentication of the user and causes at least in part operation of at least one action with respect to the at least one resource based upon the applied one or more access policies.

A context module may be configured to determine context and or context tokens of the user s authentication. The user context includes context characteristics data of a user and or the user device such as a date time location current activity weather a history of activities etc. associated with the user and optionally user preferences. The context module selects among the features of each of the machine transferrable one time password codes the features of the sequence of machine transferrable one time password codes or a combination thereof for authenticating the user based at least in part on the context context tokens machine transferrable one time password codes the applied one or more access policies or a combination thereof. As mentioned the context tokens associated with a person may be a birthday health moods clothes etc. of the person. The context tokens associated with an activity element may be the time location equipment materials etc. of the activity. The context tokens associated with an object of interest may be a color size price position quality quantity etc. of the object.

According to certain embodiments the camera device can interact with the display to transfer one or more machine transferrable one time password codes via an air gap. Further input interface may comprise a memory not illustrated for storing preferences or user profile information affecting the machine transferrable one time password codes which can be conveyed to the information appliance device . Input interface may support any type of wired and or wireless link e.g. infrared radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH and the like. Input interface communication interface and or control device may further comprise automatic speech recognition ASR and or text to speech TTS technology for effectuating voice recognition functionality.

It is noted that the described authentication process according to certain embodiments can be provided as a managed service via service provider network .

In step the user device determines a machine readable form of the one time password deliverable to the relying party device over an air gap in between. By way of example the user chooses to convert one or more one time passwords into one or more machine transferrable one time password code forms in series in parallel or both. In step the user device transmits the machine readable form over the air gap.

Subsequently an application or process requests the machine transferrable OTP code forms or a sequence of machine transferrable one time password code forms for a particular user from the authentication platform . For instance the application can be executed by a point of sale terminal upon a user attempting to make a purchase. The platform examines the request and extracts a user ID and locates the machine transferrable one time password code form s for the specified user from the database . Next the authentication platform sends the retrieved machine transferrable one time password code forms to the requesting terminal . Thereafter the terminal can authenticate the user based on the machine transferrable one time password code forms supplied from the authentication platform .

In addition to or in the alternative the authentication process itself can be performed by the platform . Under this scenario the terminal does not perform the verification of the user itself but merely supplies the machine transferrable one time password codes to the platform . As seen in the platform receives an authentication request which may include the user specified machine transferrable one time password code form s and recognition information for the user. The platform then retrieves the stored machine transferrable one time password code forms for the particular user in database .

On presenting the screen by the user device the relying party device can activate its camera e.g. a front facing camera to begin capturing images associated with machine transferrable one time password code for analysis.

In various embodiments image markers are calculated locally at the relying party device and or sent to the authentication platform for comparison or analysis. It is contemplated that the image markers can be based on any feature identified in the images. As noted above the user may submit a sequence of machine transferrable one time password codes that only the user knows.

The user may further select the tap Implement Now or the tap Wait Later to modify the selection right away or later. The system may then adapt and execute the one time password conversion accordingly.

The processes described herein for authenticating via machine transferrable one time password codes may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The above described embodiments support simple ad hoc air gap transfers and add security protection to the OTP in local transit. Via the machine readable code forms the above described embodiments reduce or eliminate human data entry errors. In addition the above described embodiments provide local second factor hashing capability.

According to exemplary embodiments user interface may include one or more displays keypads microphones and or speakers . Display provides a graphical user interface GUI that permits a user of mobile device to view dialed digits call status menu options and other service information. The GUI may include icons and menus as well as other text and symbols. Keypad includes an alphanumeric keypad and may represent other input controls such as one or more button controls dials joysticks touch panels etc. The user thus can construct customer profiles enter commands initialize applications input remote addresses select options from menu systems and the like. Microphone coverts spoken utterances of a user or other auditory sounds e.g. environmental sounds into electronic audio signals whereas speaker converts audio signals into audible sounds.

Communications circuitry may include audio processing circuitry controller location module such as a GPS receiver coupled to antenna memory messaging module transceiver coupled to antenna and wireless controller coupled to antenna . Memory may represent a hierarchy of memory which may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Computer program instructions and corresponding data for operation can be stored in non volatile memory such as erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and or flash memory. Memory may be implemented as one or more discrete devices stacked devices or integrated with controller . Memory may store information such as one or more customer profiles one or more user defined policies one or more contact lists personal information sensitive information work related information etc.

Additionally it is contemplated that mobile device may also include one or more applications and thereby may store via memory data associated with these applications for providing users with browsing functions business functions calendar functions communication functions contact managing functions data editing e.g. database word processing spreadsheets etc. functions financial functions gaming functions imaging functions messaging e.g. electronic mail IM MMS SMS etc. functions multimedia functions service functions storage functions synchronization functions task managing functions querying functions and the like. As such control signals received by mobile device from for example network may be utilized by API s and or controller to facilitate remotely configuring modifying and or utilizing one or more features options settings etc. of these applications. It is also contemplated that these or other control signals may be utilized by controller to facilitate remotely backing up and or erasing data associated with these applications. In other instances the control signals may cause mobile device to become completely or partially deactivated or otherwise inoperable.

Accordingly controller controls the operation of mobile station such as in response to commands received from API s and or data stored to memory . Control functions may be implemented in a single controller or via multiple controllers. Suitable controllers may include for example both general purpose and special purpose controllers and digital signal processors. Controller may interface with audio processing circuitry which provides basic analog output signals to speaker and receives analog audio inputs from microphone . In exemplary embodiments controller may be controlled by API s in order to capture signals from camera or microphone in response to control signals received from network . In other instances controller may be controlled by API s to cause location module to determine spatial positioning information corresponding to a location of mobile device . Still further controller may be controlled by API s to image e.g. backup and or erase memory to configure or reconfigure functions of mobile device to track and generate device usage logs or to terminate services available to mobile device . It is noted that captured signals device usage logs memory images spatial positioning information and the like may be transmitted to network via transceiver and or wireless controller . In this manner the captured signals and or other forms of information may be presented to users and stored to one or more networked storage locations such as customer profiles repository not shown or any other suitable storage location or memory of or accessible to the components and facilities of system .

It is noted that real time spatial positioning information may be obtained or determined via location module using for instance satellite positioning system technology such as GPS technology. In this way location module can behave as or substantially similar to a GPS receiver. Thus mobile device employs location module to communicate with constellation of satellites. These satellites transmit very low power interference and jamming resistant signals received by GPS receivers via for example antennas . At any point on Earth GPS receiver can receive signals from multiple satellites such as six to eleven. Specifically GPS receiver may determine three dimensional geographic location or spatial positioning information from signals obtained from at least four satellites. Measurements from strategically positioned satellite tracking and monitoring stations are incorporated into orbital models for each satellite to compute precise orbital or clock data. Accordingly GPS signals may be transmitted over two spread spectrum microwave carrier signals that can be shared by GPS satellites. Thus if mobile device is able to identify signals from at least four satellites receivers may decode the ephemeris and clock data determine the pseudo range for each satellite and thereby compute the spatial positioning of a receiving antenna . With GPS technology mobile device can determine its spatial position with great accuracy and convenience. It is contemplated however that location module may utilize one or more other location determination technologies such as advanced forward link triangulation AFLT angle of arrival AOA assisted GPS A GPS cell identification cell ID observed time difference of arrival OTDOA enhanced observed time of difference E OTD enhanced forward link trilateration EFLT network multipath analysis and the like.

Mobile device also includes messaging module that is configured to receive transmit and or process messages e.g. EMS messages SMS messages MMS messages IM messages electronic mail messages and or any other suitable message received from or transmitted to network or any other suitable component or facility of system . As previously mentioned network may transmit control singles to mobile device in the form of one or more API directed messages e.g. one or more BREW directed SMS messages. As such messaging module may be configured to identify such messages as well as activate API s in response thereto. Furthermore messaging module may be further configured to parse control signals from these messages and thereby port parsed control signals to corresponding components of mobile device such as API s controller location module memory transceiver wireless controller etc. for implementation.

According to exemplary embodiments API s once activated is configured to effectuate the implementation of the control signals received from network. It is noted that the control signals are utilized by API s to for instance remotely control configure monitor track and or capture signals from or related to camera communications circuitry and or user interface . In this manner visual and or acoustic indicia pertaining to an environment surrounding mobile device may captured by API s controlling camera and microphone . Other control signals to cause mobile device to determine spatial positioning information to image and or erase memory to configure or reconfigure functions to track and generate device usage logs or to terminate services may also be carried out via API s . As such one or more signals captured from camera or microphone or device usage logs memory images spatial positioning information etc. may be transmitted to network via transceiver and or wireless controller in response to corresponding control signals provided to transceiver and or wireless controller by API s . Thus captured signals and or one or more other forms of information provided to network may be presented to users and or stored to one or more of customer profiles repository not shown or any other suitable storage location or memory of or accessible to the components and facilities of system .

It is also noted that mobile device can be equipped with wireless controller to communicate with a wireless headset not shown or other wireless network. The headset can employ any number of standard radio technologies to communicate with wireless controller for example the headset can be BLUETOOTH enabled. It is contemplated that other equivalent short range radio technology and protocols can be utilized. While mobile device has been described in accordance with the depicted embodiment of it is contemplated that mobile device may embody many forms and include multiple and or alternative components.

The described processes and arrangement advantageously enables user authentication and or identification over a network. The processes described herein for user authentication and or identification may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in the main memory . Such instructions can be read into the main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in the main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in the main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example the communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. For Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation the communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through a local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. A wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as the main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to controlling a set top box based on device events. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

