---

title: Three-dimensional vertically aligned functionalized multilayer graphene
abstract: In a method of making a thermal interface material, functionalized graphene sheets are dispersed in a liquid. The liquid is removed through a filter so as to form a filtration cake of aligned functionalized graphene sheets, substantially all of which are parallel to a common plane. At least one block of aligned functionalized graphene sheets is cut from the filtration cake. The block includes a first end face and an oppositely-disposed second end face that are parallel to each other and to which substantially all of the functionalized graphene sheets are transverse. The block also includes two oppositely-disposed sides to which substantially all of the functionalized graphene sheets are parallel. A first layer of a thermally conductive substance is applied to the first end face and a second layer of the thermally conductive substance is applied to the second end face of the block.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09314817&OS=09314817&RS=09314817
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09314817
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130304
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 604 874 filed Feb. 29 2012 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. CMMI 0800849 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to thermal interface materials and more specifically to thermal interface materials using graphene.

Thermal interfacial materials TIMs are thermally conductive materials that are used to increase thermal contact conductance across surfaces. For example TIMs are used to couple microprocessors and heat sinks to increase the thermal transfer efficiency from the microprocessors to the heat sinks TIMs replace air gaps between the objects being coupled. As air is a thermal insulator unfilled air gaps can greatly reduce the rate of heat transfer from a microprocessor. Common TIMs include thermal grease made from silicone oil filled with aluminum oxide zinc oxide or boron nitride. Such thermal greases tend to be messy and have limited heat transfer rates.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a method of making a thermal interface material in which functionalized graphene sheets are dispersed in a liquid. The liquid is removed through a filter so as to form a filtration cake of aligned functionalized graphene sheets substantially all of which are parallel to a common plane. At least one block of aligned functionalized graphene sheets is cut from the filtration cake. The block includes a first end face and an oppositely disposed second end face that are parallel to each other and to which substantially all of the functionalized graphene sheets are transverse. The block also includes two oppositely disposed sides to which substantially all of the functionalized graphene sheets are parallel. A first layer of a thermally conductive substance is applied to the first end face and a second layer of the thermally conductive substance is applied to the second end face of the block.

In another aspect the invention is a method of making a thermal interface material for thermally coupling a heat source to a heat sink functionalized graphene sheets are dispersed in a liquid. The liquid is removed through a filter so as to form a filtration cake of aligned functionalized graphene sheets substantially all of which are parallel to a common plane. At least one block of aligned functionalized graphene sheets is cut from the filtration cake. The block includes a first end face and an oppositely disposed second end face that are parallel to each other and to which substantially all of the functionalized graphene sheets are transverse. The block also includes two oppositely disposed sides to which substantially all of the functionalized graphene sheets are parallel. A first stabilizing layer is applied to the first end face and a second stabilizing layer is applied to the second end face. The first stabilizing layer is placed to be in thermal communication with the heat source and the second stabilizing layer is placed to be in thermal communication with the heat sink.

In yet another aspect the invention is a thermal interface material that includes a block of a plurality of functionalized graphene sheets that are substantially all aligned so as to be parallel to a common plane. The block has a first end face that is transverse to the common plane and a second end face that is transverse to the common plane.

A first layer of a thermally conductive substance is applied to the first end face and a second layer of the thermally conductive substance is applied to the second end face. A first silicon layer is applied to the first layer of the thermally conductive substance and a second silicon layer is applied to the second layer of the thermally conductive substance.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

As shown in one method of making a vertically aligned functionalized multilayer graphene block begins with making a dispersion by dispersing a plurality of graphene sheets in a liquid such as water. The liquid is removed from the dispersion through a filter such as by applying a vacuum to the filter . In one embodiment the filter includes an aluminum oxide filtration paper. As the liquid is removed the graphene sheets will lay down in an orientation in which they are substantially aligned so as to be parallel to a common plane. Eventually substantially all of the liquid is removed leaving a cake of graphene sheets that are aligned with each other. The cake may then be cut along predetermined lines thereby generating a plurality of blocks of aligned graphene.

Each block includes a first end face a second end face that is opposite from the first end face a third end face an opposite fourth end face a top side and an opposite bottom side . Substantially all of the graphene sheets are aligned parallel to the top side and are transverse to the first end face .

A plurality of the blocks are rotated so that the first end face is facing upwardly. The blocks are then drawn together so as to form a common top surface and an opposite bottom surface . A layer of a thermally conductive substance such as indium is applied to both the top surface and the bottom surface and then a layer of silicon is applied to each layer of the thermally conductive substance resulting in the formation of a thermal interface material unit .

As shown in the thermally conductive substance adheres to the graphene sheet blocks and the silicon layer adheres to the thermally conductive substance . The graphene sheets may also be functionalized with functionalizing molecules so as to overcome forces that might interfere with their alignment. Graphene may be functionalized for example with functional groups such as conjugated carbon carbon carbon hydroxyls and carboxyls.

In one embodiment as shown in the thermal interface material unit can be thermally coupled to a heat source such as an integrated circuit and a heat sink . Because of the superior conductivity of graphene along its planar axis heat transfer from the heat source to the heat sink through the thermal interface material unit is highly efficient.

In one experimental embodiment functionalized multilayer graphene fMG was synthesized and 0.8 g of the fMG sheets were dispersed in 1 L of deionized water. The dispersal was vacuum filtrated with a 47 mm vacuum filtration system equipped with an anodic aluminum oxide AAO filtration paper 0.1 m pore size Anodisc 47 Whatman International Ltd. . The obtained filtration cake was washed by in dionized water removed from filtration paper and dried at 105 C. for 3 hours. In order to obtain a high thermally conductive array reduction free thermally conductive surface functionalized multilayer graphene sheets functionalized multilayer graphene were aligned. Functionalized multilayer graphene sheets were prepared in a moderate oxidation environment mixed sulfuric and nitric acid with aid of sonication. The thickness of the functionalized multilayer graphene sheets was in the range of between 2 nm and 10 nm with an average thickness of 7.35 nm.

Graphene is susceptible to van der Waals forces and tends to be recumbent on substrates. If aligned and densely packed in an array multilayer graphene sheets can be self supporting conveniently rearranged and vertically assembled between solid surfaces thereafter. In order to obtain a high thermally conductive array reduction free thermally conductive surface functionalized multilayer graphene sheets functionalized multilayer graphene were aligned. The thickness of the functionalized multilayer graphene sheets was in the range of between 2 nm and 10 nm with an average thickness of 7.35 nm.

Silicon wafers 1 mm by 1 mm were coated with melted pure indium at a temperature of 180 C. The thickness of the indium coating was about 10 m after careful polishing at room temperature. A functionalized multilayer graphene samples were sliced and sandwiched between thus prepared Silicon wafers with an orientation of functionalized multilayer graphene perpendicular to the contacted Silicone surfaces corresponding to vertically aligned functionalized multilayer graphene thermal interface material assemblies. The sandwiched samples were clamped with small pressure about 0.02 MPa and placed in a convection oven at 200 C. for 20 minutes and then cooled to room temperature.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

