---

title: Providing temporal information to users
abstract: Systems and methods for generating and providing an user interface for providing temporal information to users. The user interface may comprise a center portion and a three-dimensional shape comprising an upper portion that lies about the center portion and a lower portion that lies below the center portion. The center portion may correspond to a first time period. The upper portion may correspond to a second time period in the future relative to the first time period. The lower portion may correspond to a third time period in the past relative to the first time period.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843824&OS=08843824&RS=08843824
owner: 2nfro Technology Ventures LLC
number: 08843824
owner_city: Cheyenne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Modern life requires people to process and large quantities of information in many different formats. E mails text messages Rich Site Summary RSS feeds phone calls voicemails day planners and various other mediums provide users with more information than ever. Existing interfaces for presenting this information are typically linear and also typically segregated by information type. For example e mail s are typically viewed in an e mail application text messages are typically viewed using a separate text feature phone calls and voicemails are received utilizing yet another function. In most cases these applications and functions also present information in a linear fashion. For example e mails text messages and other similar messages organized according to a single dimension e.g. time of receipt sender etc. . Day planners and other calendaring applications typically utilize a traditional calendar.

These segregated linear presentations mechanisms however make it very difficult for users to effectively process information. For example users may have to sift through tens or even hundreds of irrelevant e mails to find e mails to which the user should respond. Also for example users may be forced to scroll through junk text messages from advertisers in order to finding the text messages that the user considers interesting. Linear presentations are only capable of providing users with a single time indication e.g. the time that a message or other piece of information arrived . Users are required to read e mails or other messages to independently determine if the e mail refers to a future date. Accordingly there is a need for new information presentation methods.

Various embodiments are directed to methods and systems for generating and serving an interface comprising temporal information. Each item of temporal information e.g. information item is associated with at least one time which may be a time in the future the present or the past. Temporal information for presentation in the interface may be received from various different sources including for example e mail feeds text feeds instant message feeds Rich Site Summary RSS feeds phone or voicemail feeds social media feeds commercial offer feeds stores of medical academic employment or other records etc. In some embodiments additional information may be received from users of the interface. For example users may provide pictures memos photographs etc. Time may be associated with information items in any suitable way. In some embodiments time is associated with information items based on a time that the information items were received a time referred to by the information items a time of replies or other associated information items etc. For example an information item from an e mail feed e.g. an e mail may be associated with a time when the e mail was sent or received. An information item from a social media feed e.g. a post may be associated with a time that post was made the time of a most recent reply to the post etc. If the e mail post or other information item describes a future or past event e.g. a doctor s appointment next week then that information item may be associated with the time of the event or appointment. Some information items may be associated with more than one time. One example of such a multi temporal information item is the e mail described above that references a future appointment. This example e mail may be associated with both the time of its receipt and with the time of the appointment.

The interface is configured to present the information items graphically in a manner that provides the user with an indication of a time or times associated with each information item as well as other properties of the information items. Presenting the information items and associated times and properties graphically enables the user to visualize relationships between the various information items at a glance. In this way the user may identify and view information items that are most relevant to her or him at any given time. The user may also avoid processing information items that are not relevant to the user or not relevant at a given time. Multi temporal information items e.g. those associated with more than one time may be represented on the interface so as to indicate more than one time.

In some embodiments the interface is arranged with reference to a center axis. The center axis may be visible to users or may simply serve as a common reference. A two dimensional shape such as a circle is positioned in plane orthogonal to the center axis. The two dimensional shape e.g. a face thereof corresponds to a time period which may be for example one day twelve 12 hours etc. Different angular positions on the two dimensional shape correspond to different times for example similar to a clock. Information items are represented on the two dimensional shape as icons positioned on the face of the two dimensional shape. The angular position of each icon about the center axis indicates a time associated with the underlying information item. The distance of each icon from the center axis indicates an additional property associated with the underlying information item such as for example the relevance of the information item a category of the information item etc.

In various embodiments the time period corresponding to the two dimensional shape is defined relative to the reference time. For example the time period may comprise a certain number of hours or days before or after the reference time. The reference time may be indicated on the two dimensional shape in any suitable manner. For example the reference time may be indicated by a hand pointer or other reference time marker that rotates on the two dimensional shape about the center axis similar to the hand of a clock. In some embodiments the two dimensional shape itself may rotate with the reference time marker being stationary and or represented by a stationary position. The interface may comprise functionality allowing the user to modify the reference time. For example the user may be provided with functionality for grabbing and dragging the interface to cause the reference time to traverse forwards and backwards in time. When the time period is defined relative to the reference time modifying the reference time also entails modifying the time period. Icons representing information items at times that fall outside of the time period after modification may be removed from the interface. Similarly new icons corresponding to information items at times that fall within the newly modified time period may be plotted. This may allow the user to modify the interface to show information items relative to different reference times.

In some embodiments the interface is configured to display information items both in the past and in the future relative to the reference time. For example as the times associated with different information items track from future to present to past icons corresponding to the information items transition from portions of the interface corresponding to the future to portions of the interface corresponding to the past. The future and past time periods may be represented on the interface in any suitable manner. For example in some embodiments the time period represented on the face of the two dimensional shape includes both past and future times. Also in some embodiments the interface comprises multiple two dimensional shapes with a first two dimensional shape corresponding to a future time period and a second two dimensional shape corresponding to a past time period. Additionally in some embodiments the two dimensional shape comprises multiple faces with a first face corresponding to the future time period and a second fact corresponding to the past time period. The user may view the different faces by changing the user s point of view. For example the user may virtually rotate the interface to change the user s view relative to the faces.

In some embodiments an interface comprises a center portion on the plane orthogonal to the center axis with icons plotting on a surface of a three dimensional shape positioned about the center axis. The center portion corresponds to a first time period for example in the manner described above. The three dimensional shape may be positioned relative to the center portion such that the three dimensional shape has a lower portion that lies below the plane and an upper portion that lies above the plane. The upper portion represents a second time period that is in the future relative to the time period and the lower portion represents a third time period that is in the past relative to the time period. Icons representing information items are plotted on the interface in a manner similar to that described above. For example icons representing information items at times in the first time period are plotted on the center portion. Icons representing information items at times in the second time period are plotted on the upper portion of the three dimensional shape. Icons representing information items at times in the third time period are plotted on the lower portion of the three dimensional shape. The three dimensional shape may be any suitable shape. In some embodiments the three dimensional shape is a torus with the center portion positioned in the center or donut hole of the torus.

Time may be represented on the respective portions of the three dimensional shape in any suitable manner. For example time may be indicated by the distance along the surface of the three dimensional shape from the center axis or a center most edge of the three dimensional shape and or by angular position. In some embodiments time is indicated by both the distance along the surface from the center axis or center most edge and by angular position. For example the direction of time may spiral outward from the center axis or the center most edge of the three dimensional shape.

In various embodiments the interface may be configured to track updates to information items over time. For example some information items such as e mails social media posts etc. may be updated over time as additional users reply like or otherwise indicate interest share or re post etc. The interface may comprise a two dimensional shape that is positioned orthogonal to a center axis. The two dimensional shape corresponds to a time period. Angular positions about the center axis correspond to different positions within the time period. When an information item is received e.g. via one of the described feeds it may be plotted on the two dimensional shape as an icon. The position of the icon corresponds to a time associated with the information item e.g. a time when the information item was sent posted etc. . When an information item is updated the icon corresponding to the interface may be modified. For example the color of the icon may change a size of the icon may change a shape of the icon may change etc. In this way the user may view the interface to receive an indication of information items occurring during the time period and also gauge the response of other users to the information items e.g. via the number and or type of updates .

Reference will now be made in detail to several example embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. Wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict example embodiments of the disclosed systems or methods for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative example embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

Each user device may be associated with a user . For example a user may own lease or otherwise have rights to use his or her associated user device . User devices may comprise any type of network enabled computer device that may be utilized by a user to receive and or view interfaces as described herein. Examples of user devices include smart phones tablet computers laptop computers desktop computers etc. In some embodiments user devices may be optimized to match the shape of the interfaces described herein. For example a user device may comprise a round or rounded screen. A user device may comprise glasses or any other suitable mechanism for projecting the interface to virtually appear completely or partially around the users. One example of such a user device is the GLASS product developed by GOOGLE INC. Another example of such a user device is a holographic projector or similar three dimensional output or display device. As used herein user device is used to indicate all of the user devices and 102 unless otherwise indicated. In some embodiments user devices receive the various information items as data feeds and or in other forms to generate user interfaces for providing temporal information.

In various embodiments the environment comprises one or more service provider systems . A service provider system receives the various information items and generates user interfaces for providing the temporal information. The user interfaces are then served from the service provider system to the respective user devices . Although the service provider system is shown in as a single block it will be appreciated that the service provider system may be and or comprise a distributed processing system comprising multiple pieces of computer hardware distributed geographically and or according to network topography. For example the service provider system may be configured to provide the interfaces as a generally accessible cloud service software as a service SaaS or according to any similar and suitable method. In some embodiments users utilizing user devices log in to the service provider system to receive the interfaces. Various users and or user devices may have accounts with the service provider system allowing the users to view interfaces comprising information items specific to the user. The various components etc. of the environment may communicate with one another via a network . The network may be any suitable type of wired wireless or mixed network and may comprise for example the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN etc.

The example data feeds comprise e mail data feeds from one or more e mail systems E mail E mail social network data feeds from one or more social network systems Social Feed Social Feed commercial offer feeds from one or more commercial offer systems telephone related feeds from one or more telephone network systems Tele. Feed etc. The e mail feeds for example may indicate e mails to and or from the user . Different e mail feeds may be received from different e mail addresses and or accounts associated with the user . Information items received through e mail feeds may include e mail messages to and or from the user. Some e mail services such as the GMAIL service available from GOOGLE INC. have related calendar features. E mail feeds from such services may also include information items relating to future and or past events stored with the calendar feature. Social network data feeds may be received from one or more social network systems . Social network feeds for example may be associated with different social network accounts held by the user . Examples of such accounts include accounts with the FACEBOOK TWITTER etc. Information items received though social network feeds may include for example posts made by the user posts made by friends or other users followed by the user replies shares or re postings of the same etc.

Commercial offer feeds CO Feed CO Feed may be received from one or more commercial offer systems and may comprise various commercial offers available to the user and or the general public either presently or in the future. Telephone feeds Tele. Feed may be received from one or more telephone network systems and may indicate information items relating to the user s telephone account. Such information items may include for example voicemails missed calls etc. It will be appreciated that the list of example data feeds represent just one example feed configuration. In some embodiments different combinations of feeds including more or less than the feeds shown in may be utilized. For example in some embodiments the service provider system may be in communication with an additional calendar e.g. one example of a system represented by the other system . The calendar system may implement a separate calendar service for the user such as the GOOGLE CALENDAR feature available from GOOGLE. An additional calendar feed not shown may provide information items related to events on the user s calendar.

In some embodiments the service provider system receives additional information from various non feed sources. Other information represents information items received from any other suitable source or sources e.g. other systems . Such information may include for example medical records academic records public records etc. Additional information items may be received from the user such as for example photographs memos or notes etc.

In the example embodiment of the data feeds are received by the service provider system which may process the incoming information items and generate the various interfaces described herein. For example is a flow chart showing one embodiment of a process flow that may be executed by the service provider system to generate interfaces for providing users with temporal information. At the service provider system receives information e.g. from data feeds other information user provided information items etc. . At the service provider system processes the incoming information. Processing the information may involve for example formatting received information items deriving one or more times associated with the information items received via the data feeds deriving a relevance of information items received via the data feeds etc. At the service provider system may generate a user interface for providing temporal information. At the user interface indicated by may be served to the user via the user device . As described further herein the interface may provide the user with modification options including zooming in or out viewing details of a particular information item changing the user s point of view etc. For example the user may provide interface selections to the service provider system . The interface selections may comprise requests for the service provider system to make modifications to the interface. At the service provider system modifies the interface in response to the selections .

The distance of the icons from the center axis indicates properties of the respective underlying information items. In the example of different distances from the center axis are represented by zones . As illustrated icon is positioned in zone icon is positioned in zone and icon is positioned in zone . Each zone corresponds to a different information item property value. In some embodiments the zones correspond to different types of information items. For example e mails may appear in zone social media feeds may appear in zone photographs may appear in zone and commercial offers may appear in zone . Also in some embodiments the zones may correspond to different levels of relevance. For example zones may represent decreasing or increasing levels of relevance. Information items with high levels of relevance may be represented in zones closer to the center axis than information items with lower levels of relevance. Example methods for determining relevance are described herein below with respect to FIGS. and .

In various embodiments the time period represented by the two dimensional shape is defined relative to a reference time which may be indicated by a reference time marker . The reference time marker is indicated as an arrow in though it will be appreciated that any suitable marker may be used. For example in some embodiments the reference time marker may comprise a hand similar to the hand of a clock. In the embodiment shown in the time period is twenty four 24 hours after the reference time. It will be appreciated however that any suitable period may be used.

In various embodiments the reference time marker may be set e.g. by the user and or by the user device or service provider system to a current time. The user however may be provided with functionality for modifying the reference time. Changes in the reference time may be indicated on the interface by rotating the reference time marker relative to the shape . For example the marker may be rotated around the shape and or the shape may be rotated about the center axis while the reference time marker remains stationary. When the shape is rotated the angular positions of the icons are also updated. Changes to the reference time may be made in any suitable manner. For example the service provider system and or user device may receive from the user a textual indication of a new reference time. Also in some embodiments the user is provided with functionality for changing the reference time by selecting either the reference time marker or the shape itself and rotating for example with a circular motion. For example illustrates a reference area that may be selected by the user e.g. by the user s finger on a touch pad with a cursor controlled by a mouse or other pointing device etc. . The user may drag the area in the directions indicated by the associated arrows to rotate the shape and thereby change the reference time. Similarly in some embodiments the user may change the reference time by selecting the reference time marker and rotating it about the shape . In different implementations the user may select the interface at any position. The reference area is but a single example of such an area.

Because the time period is defined relative to the reference time changes to the reference time also bring about changes to the time period represented on the shape . This may cause some of the information items corresponding to icons plotted on the shape before the reference time change e.g. to fall outside of the new time period. These icons may be removed from the shape . Changing the time period may also cause new information items to fall within the new time period. These new information items are plotted as icons on the shape in accordance with the new time period. In this way changing the reference time period may allow the user to view information items that have been and or will be relevant. For example if the user changes the reference time to a past time to view information items received in the past. Similarly the user may advance the reference time to a future time to see appointments or other information items that may be relevant to the user in the future.

In some embodiments the interface is configurable to portray information items both in the past and in the future. For example the interface may comprise multiple faces with one face corresponding to time in the past relative to the reference time and another face corresponding to time in the future relative to the reference time. The shape is illustrated in according to a user point of view showing a first face . is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of a user point of view resulting in display of the face e.g. similar to the view shown in . is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of a user point of view resulting in display of a face of the shape . In some embodiments the respective facts may represent different time periods. For example the face may represent a first time period in the future relative to the reference time. The face may represent a second time period in the past relative to the reference time. In some embodiments the first and second time periods are contiguous and may meet at the reference time period.

The user may transition the interface between different points of view e.g. in any suitable manner. For example the user may provide interface selections indicating a desired point of view change. In response the user device and or the service provider system modifies the view of the interface provided to the user as requested. In some embodiments the interface may be provided by a three dimensional display device e.g. a holographic projector . In such cases the user may change his or her point of view by changing his or her physical position relative to the interface .

In some embodiments both past and future times are shown from the same user point of view. For example the interface may show two versions of the shape with one version oriented to display the first face e.g. corresponding to a future time period and another version oriented to display the second face e.g. corresponding to a past time period . Also in some embodiments a single version of the shape is shown in a configuration such that the time period corresponding to the shape extends an amount of time before the reference time and an amount of time after the reference time. For example referring to the time period may be configured to correspond to twelve 12 hours before the reference time and twelve 12 hours after the reference time. In some embodiments the shape may be displayed according to a split view where one portion of the shape corresponds to the first face e.g. corresponding to a future time period and another portion corresponds to the past face e.g. corresponding to a past time period . is a diagram of one embodiment of the interface configured to display different faces corresponding to different time periods from a single user point of view. In the interface is split into a first portion corresponding to the first face and a second portion corresponding to the second face . For example icons and in portion indicate information items in the past relative to the reference time while icons in portion indicate information items in the future relative to the reference time. The respective portions may be of any suitable shape and or proportion relative to one another.

In some embodiments the interface may be modified to display additional time periods. For example is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of the interface comprising a plurality of rings around the future face of the shape . Each of the rings corresponds to a time period either in the future or the past relative to the time period of the face . Rings successively farther from the center axis correspond to time periods that are successively farther into the future or past than the time period for the face . In some embodiments each of the time periods is of the same length. For example when the time period corresponding to the face is one day each of the rings may correspond to successive days such that the interface as shown in corresponds to one week. Icons representing information items may be plotted on the rings in a manner similar to that described herein with respect to the faces . For example the angular position of the icons corresponds to the information item time for the icon. For example icon is plotted on the ring closest to the face at an angular position corresponding to 9 o clock p.m. indicating that the information item for icon will occur one day from the day including the reference time at 9 o clock p.m. Also for example icon is plotted on the ring that is four rings removed from the face at an angular position corresponding to 10 o clock a.m. This indicates that the information item for icon will occur four days from the day including the reference time at 10 o clock a.m.

As described with respect to the user may be provided with functionality to change the reference time indicated in by reference time marker . In some embodiments the user may change the reference time by selecting and rotating the shape and or the reference time marker for example as described above with respect to the reference area . As changes in the reference time occur the time period corresponding to the shape also changes for the reasons provided above. This may work a corresponding change in the time periods associated with the rings . For example moving the reference time forward in time may cause portions of the ring time period to become part of the shape time period. Accordingly some icons such as may transition from the ring to be plotted on the face for example in the manner described herein above. Although the respective time periods are described with respect to as one day it will be appreciated that any suitable time period may be used. Also although the rings are described in the context of future time periods it will be appreciated that similar rings representing similar past time periods may be positioned around the past face .

In some embodiments the distance of the various icons from the center axis within their respective rings indicates a property of the underlying information items as illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of the interface showing an example graphical representation of information item properties on the shape . does not show rings however it does show bands on the face . Each band is positioned at a different distance from the center axis . The bands at which particular icons are plotted indicate properties of the represented information item. In the example of seven 7 bands are shown with each band corresponding to other people or groups of people related to the user . A Me band corresponds to information items originating from the user . A Family band corresponds to information items originating from users who are members of the family of the user . A Work band corresponds to information items originating from other users associated with the workplace of the user . A Friends band corresponds to information items originating from users that are Friends of the user . A Fort Lauderdale band corresponds to information items originating from other users that live in Fort Lauderdale. An Alumni band corresponds to information items from other users that are alumni of a common university college or high school. A Golf band corresponds to information items that are from other users who share with the user an interest in golf. The user may determine the other users in each of the bands for example by providing indications of desired users to the user device and or service provider system . Also in some embodiments the user device and or service provider system may be programmed to automatically generate groups for example by parsing information items received by the user .

In various embodiments additional time periods may be added to the interface by adding additional ring sections around either the shape and or the rings . is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of the interface comprising ring sections around the face and rings . Each ring section may correspond to a time period greater than the time periods corresponding to the shape and rings . For example while each of the face and rings may correspond to a day the various ring sections may correspond to one month. The angular position of the various ring sections may correspond to the proximity of their underlying time periods to the reference time. In some embodiments ring sections may have sub sections such as corresponding to sub time periods. For example when the ring section time periods correspond to a month each sub section may correspond to a week within the month. Icons representing information items may be potted in the various ring sections and sub sections in a manner similar to that described herein with respect to the shape and rings .

In various embodiments the time periods associated with rings are of a different scale than those corresponding to the shape and rings . Accordingly when the reference time is changed the ring portions may rotate at a different speed relative to the reference time than do shape or rings . is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of the interface comprising ring sections around the face . For example in the embodiment of rings are omitted. also illustrates regions or bands on the shape for example similar to the regions described herein. In each of the ring sections are labeled by month and broken in to four discrete sub sections with each sub section corresponding to one week.

In various embodiments the spiral ring portion illustrated in may be represented in three dimensions. For example rings successively farther from the center axis may be successively higher above the shape forming a conical section. Two such conical sections may be joined with one representing the future relative to the reference time and one representing the past relative to the reference time. is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of a user interface for providing temporal information to users comprising a pair of spiral ring portions representing past and future time periods respectively joined at a plane comprising the shape . The interface may be presented in conjunction with the shape described hereinabove. The shape may be positioned in a plane at a junction between the spiral ring portions . The first face of the shape may correspond to a future time period relative to the reference time. The first face is directed towards the first spiral ring portion which may also represent a future time period relative to the reference time. The second face of the shape may correspond to a future time period relative to the reference time and is directed towards the second spiral ring portion . The second spiral ring portion may correspond to a past time period relative to the reference time. In various embodiments may be truncated with ring sections in a manner similar to that described above with respect to the ring sections .

It will be appreciated that the interface may be viewed from various different user points of view in addition to the point of view illustrated in . For example the user may view the interface from a top down or bottom up point of view relative to the orientation shown in . From such views the interface may appear in a manner similar to that of the interface as illustrated in . Icons may be plotted on the interface in a manner similar to that described above with respect to the interface . In the example shown in the time period including the reference time e.g. represented on the shape is Monday the 1. An icon is plotted in spiral ring portion at a ring corresponding to Friday the 4. The angular position of the icon about the center axis indicates the time of day of the represented information item e.g. a time of day on Friday the 4 . Similarly an icon is plotted in spiral ring portion at a ring corresponding to Saturday the 31 e.g. in the past relative to the time period including the reference time . Again the angular position of the icon indicates the time of day of the represented information item e.g. a time of day on Saturday the 31 .

The user may change the reference time for the interface in a manner similar to that described above with respect to the interface . For example the user may provide a textual indication of a new reference time. Also in various embodiments the user may select and drag to rotate the interface and therefore also modify the reference time. The manner in which the user rotates the interface may depend on the user point of view from which the interface is viewed. For example when viewing from a top down or bottom up point of view the user may advance or reverse the reference time as described above with respect to the interface . When viewing from other points of view the user may drag the interface in directions corresponding to the rotation of the faces. For example illustrates an example contact area with associated arrows indicating directions that the user may drag the interface to advance and reverse the reference time.

As the reference time changes the interface may spiral with time represented by the future spiral ring portion spiraling into the shape and subsequently from the shape through the spiral ring portion . For example as the reference time moves forward in time the icon spirals along its ring about the center axis and down in the orientation of towards the shape . As described above the user may move the reference time forwards or backwards in time by selecting the reference time marker or the interface and rotating it with a circular motion. When the reference time reaches a value such that the information item represented by the icon falls within the time period represented by the face of the shape the icon is plotted on the face for example as illustrated in . For example while plotted on the shape a distance between the icon and the center axis may indicate a property of the represented information item. When the information item represented by the icon passes into the past relative to the time period corresponding to the face it may be plotted on the face and eventually on the spiral ring portion . When the information item corresponding to the icon passes far enough into the past so as to reach the end of the spiral ring portion it may pass into an appropriate ring section until it falls outside of all time periods represented by the interface at which point it may no longer be displayed.

In some embodiments the interface instead of being truncated with ring sections may continue to extent out comprising portions having time periods that are farther in the past and the future relative to the reference time. For example is a diagram illustrating another embodiment of the user interface . As illustrated in the spiral ring portions extend outward to form a three dimensional shape having an upper portion and a lower port . The upper portion like the spiral ring portion corresponds to time periods in the future relative to the reference time. The lower portion like the spiral ring portion corresponds to time periods in the past relative to the reference time. The upper and lower portions and meet at an equator . As shown in the three dimensional shape is a torus however it will be appreciated that any suitable shape may be used.

Icons representing information events are plotted on the surface of the upper and lower portions . The time indicated by an icon may be represented by the distance along the surface of the respective portion between the icon and the inner most edge of the portion e.g. the interface between the spiral ring section and the shape . In some embodiments the time indicated by an icon may also be represented by the angular position of the icon about the center axis. For example as the reference time advances icons may follow a spiral pattern across the surface of the portions as indicated by spiral . For example the effect of incorporating the spiral ring portions into the respective shape portions may be similar to expanding the spiral ring portions out and around until they meet at the equator .

Referring now to the interface is shown corresponding to a first reference time such that the transition point between the face and the shape portion is at 12 00 a.m. An icon represents an information item corresponding to 12 00 a.m. As illustrated the icon has transitioned off of the face and is positioned on the shape portion . In the interface is shown corresponding to a second reference time such that the transition point between the face and the shape portion is at 6 00 a.m. The icon shown in has now traversed towards the equator of the shape portion . A new icon represented an information item at 6 00 a.m. has transitioned off of the face and is positioned on the shape portion . In the interface is shown at a third reference time such that the transition point between the face and the shape portion is at 12 00 p.m. As illustrated the icon has continued to progress towards the equator of the shape portion as has the icon . A new icon represented an information item at 12 00 p.m. has transitioned off of the face and is positioned on the shape portion . In the interface is shown at a fourth reference time such that the transition point between the face and the shape portion is at 6 00 p.m. As illustrated the icons have transitioned towards the equator of the shape portion . A new icon representing an information item corresponding to 6 00 p.m. has transitioned off of the face and is positioned on the shape portion . In some embodiments the face may be omitted. Also in some embodiments the face may rotate as the reference time is changed. Accordingly the icons may rotate about the center axis to maintain their angular position relative to the rotating face .

As described herein the position of an icon on the upper portion or lower portion may corresponds to a time relative to the reference time. In some embodiments an icon s distance from the center axis along the surface of the respective portion may also indicate a property of the icon. For example the surfaces of the portions may also comprise spiral bands similar to the bands shown in with each band corresponding to a property of an information item. Icons representing different information items may be plotted on different bands based on the properties of the items. Also although the interface is described with time flowing in a spiral manner in some embodiments time may flow in a linear manner along the surface of the respective portions without spiraling. In such embodiments the angular position of the icons may represent other properties of the represented information items. This is illustrated below for example with respect to FIGS. and .

As is best indicated by the zones and thus the allowable arcuate paths are a figure of revolution about the center axis . Accordingly the angular position of an icon s acruate path about the center axis may also indicate properties of the underlying information item. For example the angular position may indicate a category or other similar property. shows one embodiment of an interface illustrating how the angular position of an icon may indicate a property of the icon. The interface is a figure of revolution about the center axis . The interface comprises a number of bands similar to the zones . The band into which an icon falls may indicate a property of the represented information item such as a relevance or importance. Also in the interface different angular positions about the axis indicate other properties of the information items. For example the interface is divided into a number of angular zones where each angular zone corresponds to a letter of the alphabet. In the interest of clarity not all of the angular zones are individually labeled . Information items for example originating from a user whose name begins with a certain letter may be positioned in an angular zone with the corresponding letter. The angular zones may alternatively correspond to any other information item property.

The example interface shown in illustrates how the angular position of icons may correspond to information item properties in any of the interfaces described herein etc. For example the interface may be configured such that only the surface distance from the icon to the plane indicates time and the angular zone into which the icon falls indicates an alternative property. shows another example embodiment of the interface of comprising a shape portion . The angular position of icons on the shape portion corresponds to an angular zone . The distance of icons from the center axis along the surface of the shape portion corresponds to time. For example the interface in the configuration shown illustrates past times. As time scale illustrates past time positions given the current reference time. As the reference time advances time on the surface of the shape portion proceeds in the direction of arrow . shows another embodiment of the interface having the shape portion corresponding to the past and a shape portion . Icons may be plotted on the shape portions . As the reference time advances icons may travel along the surface of the shape portions in the direction indicated by arrow . For example an icon may be initially plotted on the future shape portion . As the icon passes through the present or reference time it may be proceed to the past shape portion . The angular position of icons along the cross section of the shape portions for example may indicate time. This is illustrated by the clock . In some embodiments a shape such as the shape may be positioned at the center of the shape portions . Accordingly icons may not transition directly from the future shape portion to the past shape portion but may instead be plotted on the shape or faces thereof for a time period associated with the shape .

In various embodiments the user may be prompted e.g. by the user device and or service provider system to provide input for determining the relevance or importance of various information items. Based on the input the user device and or service provider system may determine the relevance of received information items which may be indicated on the various interfaces described herein as described. is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of an input interface that may be provided to users to receive user input regarding the relevance or importance of information items. For example each of the feeds each potential information item sender and or each information item subject category or property may be represented by its own interface . The user is optionally positioned at the center axis . To assign a relevance to a feed potential sender subject etc. the user may place the corresponding interface at a distance from the center axis . Interfaces placed nearer to the axis may be considered more important and or relevant. Although the input interface is represented in the style of the interface it will be appreciated that similar input interfaces may be arranged in the style of any of the other interfaces described herein.

The center portion or other suitable information field may describe the represented information time at a field . The center portion may also comprise a relevance or importance bar . The user may position a cursor on the importance bar to rank an importance of the information item. The importance or relevance of the information item may be utilized by the service provider system and or user device to plot icons on the various interfaces described herein for example as described herein. In some embodiments the service provider system and or user device is programmed to extrapolate the importance indicated for a given information item. For example when the user rates the importance of one information item the service provider system and or user device may attribute the same importance to other information items having common properties e.g. common senders common times of receipt common text patterns etc. . In some embodiments if the user disagrees with an extrapolated importance she may change the importance of an information icon by selecting the icon in a manner similar to that shown in .

In some embodiments the user may be provided with functionality for modifying the reference time of an interface e.g. any of the interfaces described herein with respect to an information item. For example the user may select an information item. Upon selection of the information item the service provider system and or user device may modify the reference time so that the reference time is equal to the time of the selected information item. are diagrams illustrating one embodiment for modifying reference time based on an information item. are illustrated with the interface introduced with though it will be appreciated that the concepts described may be applicable to any of the various interfaces described herein. Referring to the user may select an icon representing an information item.

The icon may be selected in any suitable manner. For example the user may with a cursor touch screen or other suitable pointing mechanism select a reference area containing the icon and drag the icon towards a predetermined location on the interface . In the example of the predetermined location is the center of the interface as illustrated by arrow . When the icon is selected the reference time for the interface may be modified to equal the time of the selected information item. In this way the user is shown the other icons plotted on the interface and their respective positions in time relative to the time of the selected information item. In some embodiments the user may revert to the previous reference time for example by selected the center indicated by reference area and dragging outwards in the direction indicated by arrow e.g. towards the original location of the icon .

In some embodiments when the interface is modified to adopt a reference time corresponding to a selected information item other icons on the interface may be accordingly filtered. For example when the icon is selected as shown in the other icons plotted on the interface may include only icons representing information items that are similar to or the selected information items. In some embodiments the various interfaces herein may also support information item filtering in other contexts. For example the user may select a geographic location. The interface may then plot only icons corresponding to information items that relate to the selected geographic area. Such information items may include available restaurant reservations tee times for golf etc.

It will be appreciated than any of the interfaces etc. described herein may be represented on different time scales. In various embodiments the scale at which any interface is presented may be user selectable e.g. as an interface selection resulting in a modification of the interface as indicated at and . is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of the interface of showing various different time scales. The representation illustrates a scale where the interface represents one hour from the equator along the surface of the upper portion optionally through the shape when present and along the surface of the lower portion back to the equator . The representation corresponds to twenty four hours. The representation corresponds to one week. The representation corresponds to one month. The representation corresponds to one year.

As described herein with respect to the interface may be configured to show icons representing information items in both the past and future relative to the reference time from a single user point of view. Any of the interfaces described herein may be configured in such a manner. For example illustrate embodiments of the interface illustrated to display past and future information items from a single point of view. Referring to a portion of the interface corresponds to the upper portion while another portion corresponds to the lower portion . It will be appreciated that the portions may be of any suitable shape or size. In the example of the upper and lower shape portions feed directly into the shape e.g. the faces thereof . In some embodiments however the upper and lower shape portions may feed first into a spiral ring section such as shown in or before reaching the shape . Also although the show the respective faces and in full it will be appreciated that split faces may be displayed as shown in .

In some embodiments information items in the future may relate to other information items in the past. Such information items may be referred to as multi temporal. For example an e mail text message social network post etc. may be represented on the various interfaces in the past based on its date of receipt and may also refer to other information items in the future. For example the e mail text message social network post etc. may refer to a future event that is represented on the various interfaces as its own information item and associated icon. Relationships between information items may be represented in the various interfaces as a wormhole or connection between past and future events. is a diagram illustrating one embodiment of an example interface showing an example connection between past and future information items. For example the interface comprises an upper portion corresponding to a future time period relative to a reference time and a lower portion corresponding to a past time period relative to the reference time . An icon represents an example e mail information item received in the past time period . Icon represents a future event information item e.g. a birthday party referenced by the e mail information item represented by the icon . For example the e mail information item may invite the user to the birthday party represented by . The relationship between the icons is indicated by a connection line linking the icons .

It will be appreciated that any of the various interfaces etc. may be implemented with different interface styles for past and future time periods. For example some embodiments may utilize a three dimensional shape portion such as portion to represent future information items while past information items may be plotted as described with respect to the past of the interface . Any other suitable combination is may be used.

Referring again to the embodiment of the interface shown illustrates an example use that may be applied to any of the interfaces described herein. For example the face as configured in corresponds to a future time period. Each of the bands correspond to a category of potential commercial offers that may be received for example from one or more commercial offer systems . Icons plotted on the face represent information items related to commercial offers. In one example a night club may advertise a happy hour at 5 00 p.m. This information event may be potted on the interface as illustrated by icon . The angular position of the icon about the center axis describes the time within the time period that the information item e.g. the happy hour occurs. The distance of the icon from the center axis indicates a category of the commercial offer e.g. an advertisement for a happy hour is related to the category Night Life . In some embodiments icons corresponding to commercial offers are plotted only on the future or future facing portions of the various interfaces. In this way portions of the interface corresponding to past times are limited to non commercial items. The user may be provided with functionality for selecting the types of commercial offers that appear on the interface . For example the user may select the categories represented by bands . The user may also be provided with functionality to select sub categories within the categories in some embodiments down to the level of individual establishes whose offers are plotted on the interface . Also although commercial offers are described in terms of the interface it will be appreciated that commercial offers may be generated in a similar manner on any of the interfaces described herein.

In some embodiments the various interfaces described herein may be utilized by users to solicit commercial offers. When a user wants to utilize a commercial product or service at a known time or range of times in the future the user may post an information item indicating the user s intention e.g. offer request to the appropriate interface. The service provider system may post the first user s request to either the commercial offer system or directly to one or more other users that are commercial establishments. Commercial establishments would then have the opportunity to make an offer to the first user . In some embodiments the user may also include other users in his or her offer request. For example a user may want to have dinner with one or more other users in a given city at a given time. This information may be included in the offer request which may solicit offers from restaurants in the appropriate city.

Within the shape and the shape time is indicated by an angular position about a center axis in a manner similar to that of the interface described above. The shape also comprises a plurality of bands which correspond to properties of plotted information items. For example in the example embodiments shown in each band corresponds to a different type of social media feed. Band corresponds to a feed from the LINKEDIN social media service. Band corresponds to a feed from the TWITTER social media service and band corresponds to a feed from the FACEBOOK social media service. Referring to icons may be plotted in the appropriate band based on the feed from which the represented information items were received. In various embodiments the user device and or service provider system is configured to update and or change the icons based on replies to the information items. For example when another user replies to a social media pose the user device and or service provider system is programmed to modify the corresponding icon for example by changing the size color shape or any other property of the icons. For example the icons may be represented in a manner similar to a weather radar. The size and color of an icon may represent the number of replies. In this way the user may view the interface to determine which information items are popular and therefore worthy of review. It will be appreciated that icons in the various other interfaces may be modified in the manner described with respect to . For example the color and or shape of any of the icons described herein may indicate properties of the represented information items including for example a number of replies as indicated in .

Various embodiments comprise a computer implemented methods for providing users with an interface with information regarding past and future events the method comprising receiving by a computer device an indication of a first event wherein the computer device comprises at least one processor and operatively associated memory generating by the computer device a graphical user interface wherein the graphical user interface comprises a two dimensional shape positioned orthogonal to a center axis wherein the two dimensional shape corresponds to a time period wherein the two dimensional shape comprises a plurality of bands at differing distances from the center axis wherein each band corresponds to a category of events a first icon plotted in a first band selected from the plurality of bands wherein the first icon corresponds to a first event described by a first category of events corresponding to the first band and wherein an angular position of the first icon about the center axis indicates a first time when the first event occurred providing the graphical user interface to a first user by the computer device receiving by the computer device an indication of an update to the first event and modifying by the computer device the first icon to indicate the update to the first event.

According to various embodiments of the methods the first event is a posting of a message to a social media outlet and wherein the update to the first event is a reply to the message.

According to various embodiments the methods further comprise receiving by the computer device an indication of a second update to the first event and modifying by the computer device the first icon to indicate the second update to the to the first event.

According to various embodiments of the methods the second update is an additional reply to the message.

According to various embodiments of the methods a first category of events corresponds to at least one message feed and wherein the first event is a posting of a message indicated by the at least one message feed.

According to various embodiments of the methods the graphical user interface further comprises a second icon plotted in a second band selected from the plurality of bands wherein the second icon corresponds to a second event described by a second category of events corresponding to the second band and wherein an angular position of the second icon about the center axis indicates a second time when the second event occurred.

According to various embodiments of the methods modifying the first icon to indicate the update to the first event comprises changing a size of the first icon.

According to various embodiments of the methods modifying the first icon to indicate the update to the first event comprises changing a color of the first icon.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. The language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter.

The figures and the following description relate to example embodiments of the invention by way of illustration only. Alternative example embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed here may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated materials do not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment various embodiments or to an example embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example embodiments is included in at least one example embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same example embodiment. Reference to example embodiments is intended to disclose examples rather than limit the claimed invention.

Some portions of the above are presented in terms of methods and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A method is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of actions instructions leading to a desired result. The actions are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. Furthermore it is also convenient at times to refer to certain arrangements of actions requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities as modules or code devices without loss of generality.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the preceding discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or determining or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain aspects of the present invention include process steps and instructions described herein in the form of a method. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of the present invention can be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software can be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by a variety of operating systems.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore the computers and computer systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

The methods and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method actions. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the above description. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present invention as described herein and any references above to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of the present invention.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred example embodiment and several alternate example embodiments it will be understood by persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and details can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Finally it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention.

