---

title: Ranking videos for a user
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes determining by a computing device a set of videos that a user may watch. For each video, a coefficient value is determined for each of one or more coefficient factors. At least one of the coefficient factors has a value that would be coincident with the user watching the video. A video coefficient for each video is calculated based on the coefficient values of its coefficient factors, and the videos are ranked based on their video coefficients. The rankings are then provided for presentation to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09165069&OS=09165069&RS=09165069
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09165069
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130304
---
An individual may be interested in watching one of a number of videos. At times the individual does not know the video they would like to watch beforehand at other times the individual knows which video they would like to watch but must select the video from among the possible options. In either case the videos currently available or that will be available in the future to the individual along with any corresponding descriptions of the videos are presented to the individual according to some logical format. For example a TV guide presents videos organized by numerically ordered TV channels available to the user and the times at which the videos will be showing.

In particular embodiments videos that a user may watch are ranked based on various factors. Those factors may include factors that would be coincident with the user watching the video. For example coincident coefficient factors may include the length of time until a video is available to the user a current monetization associated with the video being displayed a number of users currently watching the video or a number of users currently watching the video that are connected in a social networking system to the user for whom the video is being ranked. Other factors for ranking a video may be non coincident coefficient factors. For example non coincident coefficient factors may include a taste factor based on one or more preferences of the user a trend of users actions relating to the video a number of users that have liked a video or the number of user that have liked a video and are connected in a social networking system to the user for whom the video is being ranked. After coefficient factors for a video are determined each coefficient factor may be weighted and a ranking for the video may be determined using the weights and the coefficient factors. For example a video coefficient may be the linear combination of coefficient factors multiplied by their respective weights. Once videos have been ranked the ranked videos or a subset of the videos may be presented to the user in a manner that corresponds to or communicates the video s rank.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may send a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Ramble On using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

The method of may begin at step where a plurality of videos that a user may watch is determined. The videos a user may watch may depend on the platform used to watch the videos. For example if a user is interested in watching television programs then the videos a user may watch are videos available to watch as television programs. As another example videos may be streaming videos provided by a streaming video service such as Netflix. As another example videos may be videos available at or hosted by a website such as Youtube. As another example videos a user may watch may be videos a user has previously selected or interacted with such as time shifted television programs that a user has recorded or streaming videos a user has placed in a queue. As another example videos a user may watch may include OnDemand videos and Pay per view videos. In particular embodiments OnDemand videos and Pay per view videos may be behind a paywall which may be accessed on a subscription or per use basis. In particular embodiments the videos available to a user may include videos from more than one platform. In particular embodiments determining the videos a use may watch may include determining videos available to or accessible by the user across multiple platforms. In particular embodiments the videos a user may watch may be determined by accessing the videos themselves or by accessing information about the videos. While this disclosure provides specific examples of the videos a user may watch and how those videos may determined this disclosure contemplates any suitable method for determining videos a user may watch.

At step for each video a coefficient value is determined for each of one or more coefficient factors associated with the video. Coefficient factors are inputs used to determined rankings for videos. Not every coefficient factor available to be used to rank a video may actually be used for example select coefficient factors could be used based on user preferences ranking utility the preferences of the entity performing the ranking or computational speed or efficiency. A coefficient value represents the value of the coefficient factor it is associated with. Coefficient values may be determined by any suitable method. While particular examples of this disclosure describe a coefficient value as the absolute value it represents this disclosure contemplates that any suitable processing or scaling such as normalization may be applied to one or more coefficient values.

In particular embodiments one or more coefficient factors for a particular video being ranked for a user may have a value that is or would be coincident with the user watching the video a coincident coefficient factor . In other words the time that the user would watch or could watch a video or times near that time is an important aspect of those coefficient factors. Other coefficient factors may also depend on time but the values of those factors may not be coincident with the user watching the video.

In particular embodiments the number of users of a social network currently watching a video that are connected to the contemplated user is a coincident coefficient factor. Users included in the determination of the value for this factor may include users at any suitable degree of separation in the social network from the contemplated user. For example in particular embodiments only the friends of the contemplated user or a selection of those friends may be included. In other embodiments friends of friends of the contemplated user may be included as well. In particular embodiments users having one or more similar attributes to the contemplated user may be included. In particular embodiments the contemplated user may determine which types of connections or particular connections to use for this coincident coefficient factor. In particular embodiments the rate of change of the number of users of a social network currently watching the video that are connected to the contemplated user is a coincident coefficient factor. As described above users included in this determination may be any suitable degree of separation from the contemplated user.

In particular embodiments the number of users of a social network currently watching a video regardless of connection to the contemplated user is a coincident coefficient factor. This factor may include all users of a social network or a subset of users of the social network such as users in a particular geographic area users having one or more similar attributes to or preferences as the contemplated user etc. In particular embodiments the rate of change of the number of users of a social network currently watching the video regardless of connection to the contemplated user is a coincident coefficient factor. As described above users included in this determination may be any suitable degree of separation from the contemplated user.

In particular embodiments an immediacy of the video being ranked is a coincident coefficient factor. The immediacy of the video describes or indicates a time remaining until the video is watchable by or otherwise available to the user. For example the immediacy coefficient factor may describe a time until a show is broadcast. As another example a video that will be available in twenty minutes has a higher immediacy than a video that will be available in a week.

In particular embodiments a current value of the user watching the video to an entity associated with the video is a coincident coefficient factor. For example an entity associated with the video may pay more to have a higher ranked video. The current value of the user watching the video may vary based on the particular user or the time the rankings are determined. The current value of the user watching the video to an entity may be determined by any suitable techniques or algorithms such as targeting algorithms etc. In particular embodiments a video s overall ranking is subject to a user s tastes a video that the user does not want to watch will not be highly ranked in relative terms regardless of value of this coincident coefficient factor.

In particular embodiments the number of users of a social network who have liked a video and who are connected to the contemplated user is a non coincident coefficient factor. The users selected to include in the determination of the value for this factor may include users at any suitable degree of separation in the social network from the contemplated user. For example in particular embodiments only the friends of the contemplated user or a selection of those friends may be included. In other embodiments friends of friends of the contemplated user may be included as well. In particular embodiments users having one or more similar attributes or preferences as the contemplated user may be included. In particular embodiments the contemplated user may determine which types of connections to use for this coincident coefficient factor and or may select specific connections to user. In particular embodiments the number of users of a social network who have liked a video regardless of connection to the contemplated user is a coincident coefficient factor. This factor may include all users of a social network or a subset of users of the social network such as users in a specific geographic area users sharing one or more attributes or preferences as the user for whom the video is being ranked etc.

In particular embodiments one or more trends of users actions related to a video may be a non coincident coefficient factor. For example the rate of change of the number of users of a social network who have liked a video and who are connected to the contemplated user may be a non coincident coefficient factor. As another example the rate of change of the number of users of a social network who have liked a video regardless of connection to the contemplated user may be a non coincident coefficient factor. As another example the rate of change of user feedback or discussion about the video may be a non coincident coefficient factor and may be determined by any suitable method such as language searches of user generated content on a social networking system or on the World Wide Web.

In particular embodiments a taste factor representing describing or otherwise indicating one or more preferences of a user for whom a video is being ranked may be a non coincident coefficient factor. In particular embodiments taste factor information may include the price or cost to the user of watching a video. For example such information may include sales or discounts of videos relative to the video s normal or average prices such as discounts on videos behind a paywall such as OnDemand and Pay per view videos . Such information may also or alternatively include the price of the video. Videos that are on sale discounted or cost relatively less than other videos may be ranked more highly than videos that are not on sale discounted or cost relatively more. In particular embodiments the taste factor may include preferences of the user whether stated explicitly or implicitly determined by the user s actions connections posted content by the tastes of other users having one or more similar attributes or preferences as the user etc. In particular embodiments information included in a taste factor may be determined at least in part from a social networking system. For example the taste factor may include explicit stated user interests on a social networking system or explicit connections of a user to a node object entity brand or page on the social networking system. In addition or as an alternative the taste factor may include explicit or inferred user interests or preferences which may include analyzing a user s history demographic social or other activities friends social or other activities subscriptions or any of the preceding of other users similar to the user based e.g. on shared interests connections or events . Particular embodiments may utilize platform targeting which may involve platform and like impression data contextual signals e.g. Who is viewing now or has viewed recently the page for COCA COLA light weight connections e.g. check ins connection lookalikes fans extracted keywords EMU advertising inferential advertising coefficients affinities or other social graph information friends of friends connections pinning or boosting deals polls household income social clusters or groups products detected in images or other media social or open graph edge types geo prediction views of profile or pages status updates or other user posts analysis of which may involve natural language processing or keyword extraction events information or collaborative filtering. Importantly the taste factor may also include one or more privacy settings such as user opt outs data hashing or data anonymization as appropriate.

step a video coefficient is calculated for each video based on the video s coefficient values of the coefficient factors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable model algorithm or method for calculating video coefficients based on values of coefficient factors. In particular embodiments a video coefficient may be weighted by a weight associated with the coefficient factor. Weights for coefficient factors may be determined by any suitable method. For example weights may be determined by information about past user selection of or interaction with ranked videos. Past users may be the user to whom the video rankings are presented all users to whom a particular video has been presented in a ranking all users to whom any video rankings have been presented or users to whom any video rankings have been presented and that share one or more common relevant traits with the user for whom a video is being ranked. In particular embodiments machine learning or other suitable techniques may be used to adjust the weights automatically as more information becomes available. In particular embodiments weights may be based on a user s preferences or the preferences of the entity generating the weights. In particular embodiments a video coefficient may be determined using a linear combination of coefficient values multiplied by any existing weight associated with the coefficient factors. In other words a video coefficient V may be calculated using n coefficient factors F and n corresponding weights w according to the following formula In this example as for any algorithm used to determined video coefficients any suitable scaling or processing may be performed on the values of coefficient factors or weights prior to calculating a video coefficient may be performed on a calculated video coefficient or may be performed on both. While this disclosure describes specific methods of calculating video coefficients based on coefficient values and any associated weights this disclosure contemplates any suitable method model or algorithm for calculating video coefficients based on coefficient values.

At step videos are ranked based on their video coefficients. In particular embodiments the rankings may be based solely on the video coefficients in other words the order of ranked videos may correspond to the order of video coefficients. In particular embodiments the rankings may be based in part on the video coefficients and may take into account additional information. In particular embodiments all videos for which a video coefficient was determined may be ranked. In particular embodiments only certain videos may be ranked. For example only those videos with video coefficients exceeding a threshold may be ranked. As another example only those videos belonging to a certain subset such as e.g. sports may be ranked. While this disclosure describes specific ways of ranking videos based on their video coefficients this disclosure contemplates any suitable way of ranking the videos based on their video coefficients.

At step the rankings are provided to for presentation to the user. In particular embodiments providing the rankings for presentation to the user includes displaying the rankings to the user. For example the rankings may be displayed on the client device that the user will use to watch the videos. When presented the presentation may include interactive elements that allow the user to begin watching the video navigate to a website hosting the video access a memory address of a storage device on which the video resides access information about the video or any other suitable interaction. In particular embodiments the rankings may be presented by displaying the videos themselves or links to the videos in the ranked order. In particular embodiments the rankings may be presented by displaying information describing the rankings. In particular embodiments the rankings may be presented according to user preferences. For example a user may indicate which types of video to rank how many ranked videos should be displayed at once or any other suitable aspect of the display. In particular embodiments providing the rankings for presentation to the user includes providing the ranking information to a device or server for further processing before displaying to a user. For example the rankings information for a set of streaming videos may be sent to the provider of the streaming videos who then uses the rankings information to display ranked videos to the user. While this disclosure describes particular examples of providing rankings for presentation to a user this disclosure contemplates any suitable method of presenting the rankings for presentation to the user.

Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

Moreover while the example method of describes a particular way of organizing or grouping coefficient factors this disclosure contemplates organizing or grouping coefficient factors in any suitable way. For example coefficient factors may be grouped into one or more of social factors those describing other users behavior immediacy factors popularity or trend factors and monetization factors such as those describing a value to an entity of the user watching the video .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

