---

title: System and method for evaluating tissue
abstract: The present invention provides a sensor system for measuring an elastic modulus and a shear modulus and a method for using the sensor system to evaluate a tissue by determining the presence of and/or characterizing abnormal growths. The method involves applying a set of forces of different magnitudes to one or more locations of tissue, detecting the corresponding displacements due to said applied forces, determining the forces acting on those locations of tissue which are a combination of forces from the applied voltages and the countering forces from tissue deformation, obtaining the elastic modulus and/or shear modulus for a plurality of locations, and determining abnormal growth invasiveness, malignancy or the presence of a tumor from said elastic and/or shear moduli.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08845555&OS=08845555&RS=08845555
owner: Philadelphia Health & Education Corporation
number: 08845555
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130919
---
This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 992 923 filed on Mar. 8 2011 currently pending which is a 371 of International application PCT US2009 044250 filed May 15 2009 and is a non provisional of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 054 100 filed on May 16 2008 pursuant 35 U.S.C. 119 e the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Contract. No. RO1 EB000720 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a system and method for quantitatively evaluating a tumor. More particularly the invention involves using a piezoelectric sensor to detect the existence of determine the dimensions of determine the location of identify the type of determine the invasiveness of and or determine the malignancy of a tumor.

The key to successful treatment of cancer lies in early detection in turn the early detection and identification of cancerous growths is heavily dependent upon the capability of sensors and screening technologies. Currently there are a variety of different sensors and tools used for investigating the mechanical properties of soft tissue and for imaging soft tissue.

One type of conventional soft tissue sensor uses an external force applicator for inducing displacement and an external displacement gauge for measuring resistive force.The external force applicator may be hydraulic or piezoelectric and the external displacement gauge may be optical or piezoelectric. These sensors however require the extraction and destruction of tissue specimens during operation since the specimens must be cut to conform with and fit within the sensor.

Exemplary soft tissue imaging tools include Computer Tomography CT Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Ultrasound US T scan TS and Ultrasound elastography UE .CT scanstake 360 degree X ray pictures and reconstructs 3D tissue structures using computer software. MRI scansuse powerful magnetic fields and radio waves to create tissue images for diagnosis. US scanstransmit high frequency waves through tissue and capture the echoes to image tissue structures. TSmeasures low level bioelectric currents to produce real time images of electrical impedance properties of tissues. UE scansevaluate the echo time through tissue under a constant mechanical stress and compares it to that of the same tissue when unstressed. A tissue strain map is then obtained from which an image of 2D elastic modulus distribution is created by conventional inversion techniques.

Tactile imagingtools such as mammography use array pressure sensors to probe spatial tissue stiffness variations. Currently mammography is used in breast cancer screening to detect abnormal tissue by tissue density contrast. Mammography is the only FDA approved breast cancer screening technique which has a typical sensitivity of 85 that decreases to 65 in radiodense breasts.However in these screening processes there is a high incidence of false positives. In fact only about 15 30 of breast biopsies yield a diagnosis of malignancy. Although effective for screening women over 40 mammography is not as effective for screening women who have dense breast tissue. Additionally mammography and other tactile imaging tools do not have the ability to probe tumor interface properties.

Since many tissues harboring abnormal growths are stiffer than the surrounding normal tissues under compression detecting a change in tissue stiffness has increasingly become an important factor in detection and diagnosis of abnormal tissue. For example breast cancers are calcified tissues that are known to be more than seven times stiffer than normal breast tissue.Similarly plaque lined blood vessels are also stiffer than normal healthy blood vessels.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 497 133 discloses a piezoelectric finger sensor that may be used to detect tumors by measuring tissue stiffness. Tumor mobility was assessed from the ratio of the shear modulus to the elastic modulus G E ratio of the tumor or by sensitive direct tumor mobility measurement using two piezoelectric finger sensors one for pushing and one for measuring the movement of the tumor that results from the pushing. The patent concludes that the G E ratio is higher in a tumor region than the G E ratio for surrounding normal tissue and that a much higher G E ratio in the cancer region indicated that the tumor was less mobile under shear than under compression as compared to the surrounding normal tissue. Although the patent concludes that these measurements may offer the potential for non invasive breast cancer malignancy screening it does not disclose a method for determining malignancy invasiveness or tumor type.

Consequently there remains an important need to accurately and non invasively detect and identify tumors. Moreover there exists a need to develop a means for probing tumor stiffness to determine the type malignancy and or invasiveness of the tumor.

In a first aspect the invention relates to a sensor system for measuring an elastic modulus and a shear modulus comprising a sensor an apparatus for applying a voltage to a second electrode a measuring means connected to said sensor and a positioning means which may be automated or manual for positioning said sensor.

In another aspect the invention pertains to a method for evaluating a tissue. The method involves applying a set of forces of different magnitudes to one or more locations of tissue detecting the corresponding displacements due to said applied forces determining the forces acting on those locations of tissue which are a combination of forces from the applied voltages and the countering forces from tissue deformation obtaining the elastic modulus and or shear modulus for a plurality of locations and determining abnormal growth invasiveness malignancy or the presence of a tumor from said elastic and or shear moduli.

In another aspect the present invention provides the ability to measure the dimensions and or position of abnormal tissue in a tissue sample. The dimensions and or position of abnormal tissue may be determined by measuring the elastic modulus and thickness of the tissue sample using a PEFS array having a plurality of PEFS of different widths i.e. tissue contact regions. By measuring the elastic modulus of the tissue sample using PEFS of different widths and consequently different depth sensitivities the elastic modulus and thickness of the abnormal tissue and the elastic modulus of the surrounding tissue can be calculated. From these calculations the dimensions of the abnormal tissue as well as the depth and position of the of the abnormal tissue within the tissue sample can be determined.

For illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referencing various exemplary embodiments thereof. Although certain embodiments of the invention are specifically described herein one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be employed in other apparatuses and methods. Before explaining the disclosed embodiments of the present invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of any particular embodiment shown. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Further although certain methods are described with reference to certain steps that are presented herein in certain order in many instances these steps may be performed in any order as may be appreciated by one skilled in the art and the methods are not limited to the particular arrangement of steps disclosed herein.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a sensor includes a plurality of sensors and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth. As well the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The present invention is directed to a system and method for evaluating tissue specifically soft tissue to detect and or identify an abnormal growth using a piezoelectric finger sensor PEFS system . The PEFS system may include at least one PEFS a measuring means and an automated sensor positioning means . In an exemplary embodiment PEFS may include both an actuator and sensor capable of being simultaneously operated using a simple all electrical means.

In accordance with the method of the present invention PEFS may be used in vivo to measure elastic and shear properties of tissue. By quantitatively determining the shear modulus elastic modulus and or the ratio of shear modulus to elastic modulus hereinafter referred to as the G E ratio of the tissue PEFS may be used to determine the existence dimension location type invasiveness and or malignancy of a tumor contained within the tissue. The method of the present invention may be used to detect screen for diagnose and or confirm the presence of various different forms of cancerous tissue and may be particularly suitable for detecting breast cancer prostate cancer skin cancer or liver cancer.

As shown in and the PEFS system of the present invention may include at least one PEFS attached to a measuring means for generating an image graphical or numerical representation of the spatial distribution of the elastic modulus shear modulus and or the G E ratio of tissue. In an exemplary embodiment the PEFS system may further include an automated or manual sensor positioning means that is attached to and capable of positioning PEFS relative to a tissue surface.

The at least one PEFS of the present invention may be constructed as a cantilever including at least one piezoelectric layer bonded to at least one non piezoelectric layer and including at least one conductive element for applying a voltage to and relaying an induced voltage from at least one piezoelectric layer .

PEFS may operate without sensing electrode in the embodiment shown in or without the second piezoelectric layer and electrodes and in the embodiment shown in . These components may be replaced with other means for measuring displacement of the piezoelectric cantilever under compression or shear such as a laser or a piezoelectric displacement meter. However without the self sensing capability provided by electrode in the first embodiment or the second piezoelectric layer and electrodes and in the second embodiment the device would not be capable of in vivo or in situ measurements of tissues having complex shapes.

PEFS may have a variety of different shapes and configurations that facilitate tissue analysis. Exemplary configurations may include an L shaped U L shaped U shaped square shaped rectangle shaped O shaped or tapered structure having various lengths and widths. In an exemplary embodiment PEFS may have an L shaped tip adapted to accurately measure the shear modulus of soft tissues and materials under a negligible degree of strain of less than about 0.1 so as to avoid any patient discomfort. Preferably PEFS is constructed as a small cantilever probe having one or more cantilevered fingers suitable for detecting prostate cancer breast cancer skin cancer or liver cancer.

In an exemplary embodiment PEFS is a cantilever all electrical sensor capable of simultaneously applying a force to tissue and detecting the corresponding induced displacement of the tissue. This ability to self excite and self detect enables PEFS to directly measure the elastic and shear moduli of specimens having complex shapes using its cantilevered tip. In operation the tip of the PEFS cantilever is positioned adjacent to and or in contact with a tissue surface. A voltage is then applied to driving electrode of piezoelectric layer in order to generate a bending force that induces a corresponding displacement of PEFS . When the sensor tip is in contact with the tissue the displacement of cantilever will be altered by the resistance of the tissue with stiffer tissue producing less bending. The net force acting on the tissue is therefore the combination of the force generated by the applied voltage and the countering force resisting tissue deformation. Bending of the PEFS cantilever generates an induced piezoelectric voltage in the bottom sensing PZT layer in proportion to the displacement at the cantilever tip. The displacement of the cantilever tip may be measured by detecting the induced piezoelectric voltage from sensing electrode . Carefully monitoring the displacement at the cantilever tip during a given test provides an accurate measurement of the force exerted on and the resulting displacement of a tissue surface. This information may then be used to accurately determine the mechanical properties of the tissue sample. For example the slope of the net force versus displacement plot may be used to determine the elastic modulus shear modulus or G E ratio of the tissue. PEFS may have a high degree of detection sensitivity. In an exemplary embodiment PEFS may have a depth detection sensitivity that is about twice the width of PEFS . For example a 1 cm wide PEFS may be capable of measuring detecting and analyzing tissue up to a depth of about 2 cm.

In an exemplary embodiment PEFS system may include several PEFS arranged in an array to facilitate real time compression and shear measurement. PEFS arrays of varying probe widths or identical probe widths ranging from less than 1 millimeter to several centimeters may be constructed to assess stiffness variations of soft materials tissues up to tens of centimeters in depth with increased spatial resolution of less than one millimeter. The depth sensitivity may be further enhanced and customized by adjusting the width of the PEFS contact area. The preferred PEFS width may range from 1 15 mm to provide adequate measurement speeds. The PEFS array may have any configuration and dimension preferably the array may have a contact surface of about 5 to 10 cm in diameter. The array may be formed from PEFS of any dimension. In an exemplary embodiment the PEFS array may be fabricated from PEFS with a contact area of about 0.1 0.1 mm to about 10 10 mm. The PEFS may have a dimension of about 1 10 mm wide by about 1 3 cm long. As shown in the exemplary embodiment of each PEFS may be provided with a long driving PZT layer on one side of a stainless steel sham and a shorter sensing PZT layer on the other side of the stainless steel sham. The PEFS s of the array may all be oriented perpendicular to a tissue surface as depicted in for measuring the shear modulus. Alternatively the PEFS s of the array may be oriented parallel with a tissue surface as depicted in for measuring the elastic modulus.

The PEFS array may include a plurality of PEFS of uniform or varying dimensions forming a tissue contact surface of suitable dimensions. The PEFS array may be fabricated by cutting previously bonded PZT stainless steel bi layer or PZT stainless steel PZT multi layer into parallel PEFS using a diamond saw or wire saw cutter. These individual PEFS may then be arranged and assembled in an array as shown in . In an exemplary embodiment the array may be customized to correspond to the contours and dimensions of a particular tissue surface.

Moreover in addition to facilitating the detection process the PEFS array increases depth sensitivity. The depth detection sensitivity of an array of PEFS may be about twice the combined width of the PEFS of the array. Arranging several PEFS in an array and synchronizing the measurements of neighboring PEFS induces multiple PEFS to behave as a single sensor having a wide contact surface thereby increasing the depth sensitivity of the device.

PEFS system may further include a measuring means operatively associated with PEFS or an array of PEFS s . Measuring means may be any electrical device such as an oscilloscope or a voltage meter coupled with a computer capable of measuring a displacement of the cantilever in the form of an induced voltage between electrodes and across the piezoelectric layer in the first embodiment shown in or an induced voltage between electrodes and of the second piezoelectric layer in the second embodiment shown in that may be used together with the applied force to obtain a force displacement plot whose slope may be used to deduce elastic modulus shear modulus and or a G E ratio for the tested tissue. Measuring means may be capable of numerically graphically or otherwise displaying the measurements obtained from PEFS and or calculations based on these measurements including the elastic modulus shear modulus and or G E ratio. In one embodiment measuring means may be capable of analyzing the data and expressing the location of tissue abnormalities in polar coordinates so as to graphically and accurately locate the abnormal tissue within or relative to the tested tissue. In an exemplary embodiment the measuring means may be a portable electrical measurement unit capable of handling multiple measurements from a plurality of PEFS s in an array. Preferably the measuring unit may also be programmed to automatically deduce the elastic modulus shear modulus and or G E ratio associated with a particular tissue sample.

In an exemplary embodiment the measuring means enables real time imaging and or graphical representation of these calculations. Preferably the measuring means may employ data processing speeds which enable real time in vivo data processing scanning and imaging. More preferably the measuring means may be portable and may enable visualization of the analyzed data and or calculated properties of the tissue. In an exemplary embodiment measuring means may be a portable unit the size of a pocket calculator and may run on electricity or a battery based power source.

PEFS or an array of PEFS may also be attached to an automated and or manual positioning means that facilitates the positioning of the PEFS relative to the soft tissue. Although the PEFS may be manually placed on a tissue surface the automated positioning means as shown in may be employed to more efficiently more quickly and or more accurately position PEFS . Furthermore the automated positioning means may be used to move PEFS from location to location speeding up the measuring process and facilitating in vivo clinical application of the device. In an exemplary embodiment the automated positioning means may be a programmable robotic arm capable of 3 D automated positioning such as the CrustCrawler AX 12 Smart Arm w CM 5 Bundle. Alternatively automated positioning means may also be a three dimensional positioner using a set of stepping motors.

The method of the present invention is a noninvasive method of using a PEFS to determine the type invasiveness and or malignancy of a tumor contained within a tissue. The method involves placing a PEFS or an array of PEFS in contact with a tissue surface. In an exemplary embodiment PEFS may be applied to a tissue surface in a manner similar to manual palpation by contacting and rubbing the tissue surface. PEFS therefore functions like an electronic finger that enables electronic palpation by electrically applying a force to and electronically measuring a displacement of the tissue.

PEFS as shown in may be operated by applying a voltage to piezoelectric layer of PEFS . The voltage causes PEFS to bend due to the converse piezoelectric effect which generates a force and displacement at the sensor s cantilever tip. The bending of the cantilever generates an induced piezoelectric voltage in a piezoelectric layer or of PEFS in proportion to the displacement at the cantilever tip. Therefore by carefully monitoring the displacement of the cantilever tip and determining the net force exerted on the tissue which is a combination of the force from the applied voltage and the countering force from tissue deformation it is possible to determine the elastic modulus and shear modulus of a particular tissue sample based on the displacement of the cantilever tip relative to the expected displacement of the tip in the absence of the tissue sample. The displacement measurements may be used to determine the elastic modulus shear modulus and G E ratio for a particular tissue sample.

To measure the elastic modulus PEFS may be placed in contact with a tissue surface as shown in . When a voltage is applied to PEFS a force is exerted by the PEFS on the tissue in a direction orthogonal to the tissue surface inducing vertical displacement of the tip of PEFS into the plane of the tissue. By measuring the applied force and the resultant displacement of the cantilever tip it is possible to determine net force exerted on the sample and obtain the elastic modulus of the tissue from the slope of the force displacement curve. The PEFS may be used to directly determine the elastic modulus of tissue in any direction including the length width or thickness of a tissue sample. The measured elastic modulus may in some cases be employed to screen for the presence of abnormal tissue. Specifically tissue having an abnormally large elastic modulus may indicate the presence of abnormal tissue.

To measure the shear modulus PEFS may be placed in contact with a tissue surface as shown in . A voltage is applied to PEFS inducing exertion of a force on the tissue in a direction parallel to the tissue surface and consequently producing a horizontal displacement of the PEFS tip. By measuring the applied force and the resultant displacement of the cantilever tip it is possible to determine the net force exerted on a tissue and deduce the shear modulus of the tissue from the net force displacement curve. PEFS may be used to directly determine the shear modulus of tissue with the shear movement in any direction including the length or the width direction of a tissue sample. The measured shear modulus distribution map may be used as a screening test to determine for the presence of abnormal tissue. Specifically tissue having an abnormally large shear modulus may indicate the presence of abnormal tissue.

A shear modulus measurement indicative of a smooth interfacial area may be an indicator of a non invasive tumor whereas a shear modulus measurement representative of a rough and branchy interfacial area may be an indicator of an invasive tumor. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is thought that the shear modulus measurement is different for invasive and non invasive tumors when measured in a particular direction which is preferably perpendicular to the interfacial branchy and rough protrusions of invasive tumors because the interlocking nature of the tissue in the interfacial area of invasive tumors renders the tissue specimen less mobile in the interfacial area than the tissue in the interfacial area for less interconnected non invasive tumors. Similarly the shear modulus may also provide a means for determining malignancy.

While either an elastic modulus distribution map or a shear modulus distribution map of a tissue sample may assist in determining the location dimension and depth of a tumor as well as the presence of abnormal tissue a comparison of the G E ratio of tissue samples enables further information to be determined about the abnormality. In an exemplary embodiment the elastic and or shear modulus distribution map may extend to an area of normal healthy tissue in order to provide baseline elastic and or shear modulus values for normal healthy tissue. In this manner the procedure can be carried out on any patient since no assumptions need to be made regarding the elastic or shear modulus of normal healthy tissue for that patient because the present method actually measures these values. Also the accuracy and specificity of the present predictive method is enhanced since measured values for normal healthy tissue of each patient are used as a basis for comparison thereby allowing for variations in the stiffness of tissue in different patients.

The G E ratio is the ratio of the shear modulus to the elastic modulus for a particular tissue sample. Specifically such a comparison may be used to determine information about the properties of the interfacial area of abnormal tissue which may be used to assess tumor malignancy invasiveness and in some cases the type of tumor.

If it is known from the individual shear and or elastic modulus distribution map that abnormal tissue is present a low G E ratio less than about 0.7 more preferably about 0.5 or less and most preferably about 0.3 or less at the location of abnormal tissue may be indicative of a non invasive tumor such as carcinoma in situ and a high G E ratio of 0.7 or larger may be indicative of an invasive tumor such as invasive carcinoma. Similarly G E ratio may also be used to determine malignancy. The first step to determining malignancy is identifying whether the tumor is confined by a tissue boundary which would otherwise alter the stiffness characteristics of the tissue. If the tumor is not confined a G E ratio of 0.7 or greater may be indicative of malignancy. If the tumor is confined such as is the case for malignant ductal carcinoma in situ a G E ratio of about 0.3 or larger may be indicative of malignancy.

Notably PEFS system and the method of the present invention are extremely effective and accurate achieving about 100 sensitivity in detecting breast abnormalities about 96 sensitivity and about 54 specificity in detecting malignancy or invasive carcinoma with G E 0.7 for a tumor that is not confined or a G E 0.3 for a tumor that is confined and about 89 sensitivity and about 82 specificity in detecting malignancy with a G E 0.7. For mechanically dense breast tissue the method achieved is about a 94 sensitivity and about 63 specificity for detecting malignancy with a G E 0.7 for a tumor that is not confined or a G E 0.3 for a tumor that is confined and about 93 sensitivity and about 80 specificity for detecting malignancy in mechanically dense breast tissue with a G E 0.7.

For purposes of the present application specificity for malignancy is the number of non cancer predictions divided by the number of actual non cancer pathological diagnosis multiplied by 100. Specificity for invasive carcinoma is the number of non invasive carcinoma predictions divided by the number of actual non invasive carcinoma pathological diagnosis multiplied by 100. For purposes of the present application sensitivity for malignancy is the number of cancer predictions divided by the number of actual cancer pathological diagnosis multiplied by 100. Sensitivity for invasive carcinoma is the number of invasive carcinoma predictions divided by the number of actual invasive carcinoma pathological diagnosis multiplied by 100. Accuracy for malignancy is the sum of the number of cancer predictions confirmed by cancer pathological diagnosis and the number of non cancer predictions confirmed by non cancer pathological diagnosis divided by the total number of cases multiplied by 100. Accuracy for invasive carcinoma is the sum of the number of invasive carcinoma predictions confirmed by invasive cancer pathological diagnosis and the number of non invasive cancer predictions confirmed by non invasive cancer pathological diagnosis divided by the total number of cases multiplied by 100.

One advantage of the invention is that it provides significantly less false positive readings than current mammography techniques thereby minimizing the need to perform numerous unnecessary tissue biopsies for the false positive results of the mammograms.

Another potential advantage of the present invention is that it has a very high sensitivity indicating that there is a very low likelihood that cancerous tissue would be overlooked using the method of the present invention. This is important because it ensures that the method of the present invention used alone may be a reliable cancer screening method.

The G E ratio may also be used to identify specific types of malignant or benign tumors. Specifically a G E ratio of about 0.5 more preferably about 0.5 to 0.6 may be indicative of hyperplasia and a G E ratio of about 0.3 more preferably about 0.2 0.4 combined with an identification of the presence of abnormal tissue obtained from one or more of the individual shear and elastic modulus maps of the sample may be indicative of carcinoma in situ or benign tumors such as fibrocystic or fibroadipose. Although healthy tissue may also exhibit G E ratios about 0.3 cancerous tissue and tumors having a G E ratio in this range can still be identified by its higher shear and elastic modulus than that of the healthy surrounding tissue. It has been found for example that a benign tumor may have a G E ratio of about 0.3 the same as for healthy tissue but that the individual measurements of shear modulus and elastic modulus of the benign tumor are typically higher than the individual measurements of shear modulus and elastic modulus for healthy tissue thereby allowing the prediction of the presence of a benign tumor under these circumstances.

In the case of carcinoma in situ it may be necessary to also consider the location of the tissue in question to complete the prediction of whether there is cancerous tissue or not. In this case the surrounding tissue of for example a milk duct can confine the cancerous tissue thereby altering the shear and or elastic moduli of the cancerous tissue in the interfacial area. As a result the carcinoma in situ will typically exhibit a G E ratio of about 0.3 due to confinement of the interfacial area by the surrounding tissue. However individual shear and elastic modulus measurements can again be used to predict the presence of the carcinoma in situ under these circumstances since the individual shear and elastic moduli will differ from that of healthy tissue. Although benign tumors such as fibrocystic tumors also exhibit a higher shear modulus and elastic modulus value than those of the surrounding healthy tissue inclusion of abnormal tissue as identified by the individual elastic modulus map or shear modulus map that exhibit a G E about 0.3 would still allow positive predictions of all carcinomas in situ.

The method of the present invention may further involve the step of artificially increasing the perceived interfacial roughness of a tumor in order to enhance the sensitivity of the indicator for malignancy invasiveness or tumor type. The perceived interfacial roughness may also be enhanced for examination of tumors located at a significant depth below the tissue surface or tumors which have developed large interlocking networks. In an exemplary embodiment the perceived interfacial roughness may be increased by increasing the angle of the scan path relative to the interfacial protrusions. For purposes of the present invention the angle of the scan path refers to the orientation of PEFS relative to the interfacial protrusions when the shear force is applied. Different scan angles are achieved by rotating PEFS shown in about its longitudinal axis relative to the tissue sample. Preferably the angle is at least 30 degrees more preferably at least 60 degrees and most preferably about 90 degrees.

Upon analyzing and diagnosing the tissue sample measuring means may be used to express the location of tissue abnormalities in polar coordinates so as to graphically and accurately locate the abnormal tissue within or relative to the tested tissue based on the elastic modulus shear modulus and or G E measurements. Additionally measuring means may be also be used to quantitatively determine and map the size and depth of the tissue abnormalities. In an exemplary embodiment the location and dimensions of the abnormal tissue may be displayed on a 2D or 3D map to facilitate surgery.

The PEFS system and method of the present invention are particularly advantageous in comparison to the tumor detection and evaluation methods of the prior art. The method of the present invention is capable of screening for the type invasiveness and malignancy of a tumor by quantitatively measuring tissue stiffness and is not dependent upon the density difference between the tumor and the surrounding tissue or angiogenesis. These quantitative measurements may be unilaterally and uniformly used by any oncologist or physician to render an objective determination as to the presence of dimension of location of type of invasiveness of and or malignancy of a tumor without requiring the interpretation of a highly trained radiologist.

Furthermore the method and system of the present invention is a highly effective means for evaluating tissue specimens and is particularly well suited for in vivo tissue imaging. The PEFS system is sensitive and capable of detecting minute tumors less than about 0.5 cm in a demonstrated case the cancer was 3 mm in size that are frequently missed by mammography ultrasound and or palpation which typically have a size sensitivity limitation of about 1 cm. The PEFS is extremely accurate and highly sensitive producing results unmatched by currently existing technologies. In comparison to screening tests such as mammography magnetic resonance imaging ultrasound imaging and SureTouch imaging the PEFS system has a higher sensitivity and specificity for identifying the presence of a tumor as well as for predicting malignancy and tumor invasiveness. The depth sensitivity may be further enhanced or customized by changing the width of the PEFS sensor or PEFS array as discussed above.

Another particularly advantageous feature of the present invention is the ability to detect tumors malignancies and invasive carcinomas in mechanically dense tissue. For example in breast cancer detection the device of the present invention is suitable for both heterogeneously dense tissue which is defined as being composed of 51 75 glandular tissue and extremely dense tissue which is defined as being greater than 75 glandular tissue. These definitions are taken from the BI RADS Breast Imaging Lexicon found at http www.radiologyassistant.nl en 4349108442109 which classifies mammographic breast tissue composition into four distinct categories. This is important since human females under 40 years of age tend to have breast tissue that falls into one of these two categories and mammographic imaging methods are not well suited for distinguishing tumors from for example extremely dense breast tissue.

Moreover because the PEFS system of the present invention does not operate on radiation or electromagnetic waves patients are not exposed to potentially harmful effects as a result of the testing and may repeat the testing at any time without concern for adverse health risks. This may be particularly beneficial for physicians attempting to track fast growing cancers. By contrast screening procedures such as mammography may only be preformed once a year. The method of the present invention is also noninvasive and gentle requiring a strain of less than 1 thereby causing minimal to no patient discomfort. Furthermore the PEFS system is also portable inexpensive and may be mass produced with relative ease making it capable of being widely implemented.

In another aspect the present invention provides the ability to measure the dimensions and or position of abnormal tissue in a tissue sample. The dimensions and or position of abnormal tissue may be determined by measuring the elastic modulus and thickness of the tissue sample and abnormal tissue using a PEFS array having a plurality of PEFS of different widths i.e. tissue contact regions. In an exemplary embodiment a PEFS array having 3 or more PEFS may be used to analyze abnormal tissue positioned on or near the surface of the tissue and a PEFS array having 5 or more PEFS may be used to detect abnormal tissue suspended in or supported on a distal bottom surface of the tissue. By measuring the elastic modulus of the tissue sample using PEFS of different widths and consequently different depth sensitivities the elastic modulus and thickness of the abnormal tissue and the elastic modulus of the surrounding tissue can be calculated. From these calculations the dimensions of the abnormal tissue as well as the depth and position of the of the abnormal tissue within the tissue sample can be determined. The length and width of the abnormal tissue can be determined from the tissue map as described above.

The depth and position of the abnormal tissue can be determined using a PEFS array with 3 PEFS having a depth sensitivity of h h and h the elastic elastic moduli for each of these PEFS E E and E may be obtained in the manner discussed above. By solving the equations 1 3 below 

Previously we have described a two spring model that measures the depth of a bottom supported tumor embedded inside tissues See 78 115101 2007 . The present invention extends this to cover the situation where the effect of a bottom supported tumor is determined as well as to make depth determinations in the situation where the tumor is suspended above the bottom support.

Three piezoelectric fingers PEFs are used for this determination as shown in . illustrates the situation where the bottom support is not considered. This situation is discussed above.

For bottom supported inclusions it is desirable to determine the elastic modulus of the normal tissue E the elastic modulus of the abnormal tissue E the elastic modulus of the bottom support i.e. chest wall for breast tissue E the depth or height from the surface to the bottom support h and the depth or height to the top of the abnormal tissue h.

With the five equations we can solve for the five unknowns E E E h and h. It can be verified that the PEFs correspond to PEF PEF and PEF. When PEF and PEF are used away from the inclusion the E values are the same and are smaller than when PEF is used. Also above the inclusion Eshould be larger than Eand E.

This is the situation of and for this situation a fourth PEF is required. For suspended inclusions it is desirable to determine the elastic modulus of the normal tissue E the elastic modulus of the abnormal tissue E the elastic modulus of the bottom support i.e. chest wall for breast tissue E the depth or height from the surface to the bottom support h the depth or height from the surface to the bottom of the abnormal tissue h and the depth or height to the top of the abnormal tissue h.

Using a first PEF with depth sensitivity hh h we have following equation Above the inclusion . With these six equations we can solve for the five unknowns E E E h h and h. The identify of PEF can be verified since away from the inclusion for PEF E E E. Above the inclusion Emay be smaller or larger than E but must be smaller than E. Meanwhile away from the inclusion E E E Eand above the inclusion E E.

It is envisioned that the PEFS system will assist physicians in screening for tumors and various forms of cancer including but not limited to breast cancer prostate cancer skin cancer or liver cancer prior to or in conjunction with procedures such as biopsy surgical procedures mammography magnetic resonance imaging ultrasound imaging or other radioactive or electromagnetic screening tests. The PEFS system of the present invention may either be used independently or in conjunction with traditional screening methods to assist in the early detection of tumors or diagnosis confirmation of cancer. It is further envisioned that because this novel method and PEFS system may be used to detect millimeter sized tumors that are typically missed by traditional screening methods it may be particularly beneficial for early cancer detection. Also since the present method does not rely on tissue density it may also be particularly useful in women for whom traditional screening methods are ineffective due to tissue density issues. It may also be used for cancer tumor monitoring for treatment evaluation. It may also be used before surgery to locate the cancer tumor to help guide surgeons.

Additionally the PEFS system may also be used in the field of dermatology for testing skin elasticity cellular elasticity plasticity or other tissue related properties. Of course the PEFS system may be effectively used in conventional methods for making compression and shear measurements on pliable materials of any kind. It is to be understood that the PEFS system is not intended to be limited to applications involving tissue measurements.

A study was performed to determine the effectiveness of the PEFS of the present invention to accurately evaluate a set of artificial tissues which mimic the physical properties of various types of tumors. The PEFS was used to determine whether the artificial tumors embedded in the artificial tissue samples have a rough or branchy interfacial surface a potential indicator of invasive malignant cancer such as malignant breast cancer by measuring the elastic modulus E shear modulus G and determining the G E ratio for the artificial tissues. It was found that either the elastic modulus or the shear modulus may be used to discern the dimensions of the artificial tumor and that the shear modulus may further be used to characterize the texture of interface of a tumor with the surrounding tissue. Additionally when the shear modulus was measured using a scan path substantially perpendicular to the direction of corrugation at the interface of the tissue a G E ratio of greater than about 0.7 was found when probing malignant tissue.

The piezoelectric cantilever used in the study which is schematically shown in was constructed to have a 22 0.2 mm in length top layer of lead zirconate titanate PZT T105 H4E 602 Piezo Systems Inc. Cambridge Mass. and a 11 0.2 mm long bottom layer of PZT bonded to a 50 m thick stainless steel layer Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. located between the PZT layers using a nonconductive epoxy Henkel Loctite Corporation Industry Calif. cured at room temperature for one day. The cantilever was 3.8 0.2 mm wide. Both the top and bottom PZT layers were 127 m thick. The top PZT layer was used for force application. When a voltage was applied across the thickness of the top PZT layer it created a lateral strain in the top PZT layer due to the converse piezoelectric effect of the top PZT layer. The created strain bends the cantilever. The force produced by the cantilever bending was calibrated for force application.The bottom PZT layer was used as a displacement meter. Upon bending of the cantilever a voltage difference was generated across the thickness of the bottom PZT layer due to the direct piezoelectric effect and the axial displacement of the cantilever was calibrated with the induced voltage across the bottom PZT layer.Thus with both the top and bottom PZT layers the cantilever was able to both apply a force and provide a displacement sensor in one device using simple electrical means. The stainless steel tip was further fashioned into a square loop at the free end with each side of the square equal to the width of the cantilever to facilitate both compression and shear measurements using the same cantilever. The cantilever was clamped with a fixture made of 7.5 mm thick acrylic McMaster Carr New Brunswick N.J. . The PZT layers had a piezoelectric coefficient d 320 pC N as specified by the vendor. The elastic modulus of the stainless steel and that of the PZT layers were 200 GPa and 62 GPa respectively according to the vendors. The capacitance and the loss factor of a PZT layer were measured using an Agilent 4294A Impedance Analyzer Agilent Palo Alto Calif. . The contact area of the square stainless steel loop was 3.8 mm 3.8 mm. The effective spring constant K of the cantilever was 143 N m as determined using a published procedure.A DC power supply HP E3631A Hewlett Packard Company Palo Alto Calif. was used as the programmable DC voltage source. The measurements were obtained using a Newport optical table RS1000 Newport Corporation Irvine Calif. to minimize low frequency background vibrations. The applied voltages across the driving PZT layer and the induced voltage across the sensing PZT layer were recorded on an Agilent Infiniium S4832D digital oscilloscope Agilent Palo Alto Calif. . The DC power source and the oscilloscope were connected to a personal computer PC . All voltage measurements real time elastic modulus computations and data acquisition were controlled from a PC by LabView National Instrument Austin Tex. programming.

The artificial tissues tested in the study were constructed by embedding modeling clay in gelatin Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. . Three types of modeling clays were used Modeling clay C54 Play Doh Hasbro Ltd. Newport UK with an elastic modulus of 54 12 kPa. Modeling clay C92 Model Magic Crayola Easton Pa. with an elastic modulus of 92 9 kPa and modeling clay C145 Modeling Clay Crayola Easton Pa. with an elastic modulus of 145 10 kPa. In order to evaluate the interfacial properties of different tumors each type of modeling clay was molded to form two types of inclusions of the same size about 22 mm long 12 mm wide and 14 mm high having different surface textures. A first inclusion fabricated with a smooth top surface S as shown in represented benign tumors and a second inclusion with a corrugated top surface R as shown in represented malignant tumors. The corrugated surface mimicked the physical properties of the branchy or roughened interfacial area of malignant tumors. All R inclusions had rectangular grooves 2 4 mm wide and 7 mm deep running along the width of the inclusions. After formation the modeling clay inclusions were embedded in a matrix such as gelatin wherein the top of the inclusion surface was 3 mm from the top gelatin surface. The concentration of the gelatin matrix was 0.21 g ml prepared by mixing 57.75 g of gelatin Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. in 275 ml of water at 80 C. on a hot plate for 5 min. After placing each of the samples in a dish the gelatin mixture was poured over the samples to the desired height cooled at 5 C. for 1 hr to facilitate solidification and then equilibrated at room temperature for 1 hr prior to measuring.

The elastic modulus E of the artificial tissue samples was used to determine the dimension of a tumor. The elastic modulus of the samples was measured using the PEFS in the indentation modesuch that the cantilever was oriented parallel to the artificial tissue surface as shown in the photograph in . When a voltage V was applied to the driving PZT layer of the cantilever it generated a force producing a vertical displacement d indentation into the tissue thereby inducing a voltage V across the sensing PZT layer. The elastic modulus E of the tissue is related to the applied force F contact area A and vertical tissue displacement d as

The elastic moduli of each inclusion obtained by scanning along the x and y directions are termed Eand E respectively. Note that all the S inclusions and R inclusions had the same length width and height only differing in the fact that the S inclusions had a smooth top surface while the R inclusions had a corrugated surface. The scanned area for each inclusion and its vicinity was 44 mm 68 mm with a 4 mm interval.

As an example the elastic modulus profiles in the x direction and those in the y direction of the C145 modeling clay S and R inclusions are shown in and respectively. Eand Eare the elastic moduli of the S and R inclusions in the x direction along the center line of the inclusions respectively as schematically shown in the insert in and Eand Eare the elastic moduli of the S and R inclusions in they direction along the center line of the inclusions as schematically shown in the insert in . Clearly E E E and Ewere all about 52 3 kPa above the inclusions and dropped to a constant value of about 9 1 kPa away from the inclusions indicating that the elastic modulus measurement was independent of the surface roughness and scan direction. The elastic modulus of the gelatin matrix away from the inclusions was about 9 1 kPa. The length and width of the model tumors were estimated based on the width at half the peak height which indicates a length of about 19 1 mm and about 20 1 mm and a width of about 9 1 mm and about 9.4 1 mm for the S and R inclusions respectively. These figures are in agreement with the known lengths and widths of the S and R inclusions.

The shear modulus when measured perpendicular to the direction of corrugation of the artificial tissue samples was used to discern the texture of the interfacial area of the artificial tumor which may be an indicator of malignancy. The shear modulus of the tissue was measured using the indentation shear experimental method wherein the cantilever was oriented perpendicular to the tissue surface as shown in . In this geometry a force F parallel to the tissue surface was exerted on the tissue when a voltage V was applied to the driving PZT layer of the measuring cantilever producing a horizontal displacement d to the tissue and an induced voltage V to the sensing PZT layer. The shear modulus G of the tissue can be empirically expressed in terms of the horizontal force F the horizontal displacement d and the contact area A as 

For shear measurements the PEFS was displaced parallel to the corrugation i.e. the displacement is in the x direction as schematically shown in and perpendicular to the corrugation i.e. the displacement is in the y direction as schematically shown in . The shear modulus was measured both with the contact area moving parallel to the corrugation as shown in and perpendicular to the corrugation as shown in . Since the corrugation resides in the x direction of the measured shear modulus in which the contact area was moved parallel to the corrugation is Gand the measured shear modulus in which the contact area was moved perpendicular to the corrugation is G. Similarly Gand Gare also measured over the S inclusions.

The shear modulus profiles in the x direction and those in the y direction are shown in respectively where Gand Gwere respectively the shear moduli of the S and R inclusions measured with the shear motion in the x direction parallel to the corrugation of the R inclusions along the center line of the inclusions as schematically shown in the insert in . Gand Gare respectively the shear moduli of the S and R inclusions measured with the shear motion in they direction perpendicular to the corrugation of the R inclusions along the center line of the inclusions as schematically shown in the insert in . For the S inclusion both Gand Gwere about 16 1 kPa above the inclusion independent of the shear direction and fell off to about 3 1 kPa away from the inclusion. In contrast for the R inclusion the shear modulus measured perpendicular to the corrugation G and was found to be 37 2 kPa above the inclusion whereas the shear modulus measured parallel to the corrugation G was about 16 1 kPa. The length and width of the S and R inclusions as estimated from the width at half the peak height were 19.2 1 mm and 19.8 1 mm 9.8 1 mm and 9.6 1 mm respectively in agreement with those obtained from the elastic modulus profiles and with the known values. Away from the inclusion both Gand Gfell off to a constant value of about 3 1 kPa. The above results indicate that surface roughness played a role in the shear modulus measurements above the inclusion. When the shear motion was parallel to the direction of corrugation the measured shear modulus of a corrugated inclusion was similar to that of a smooth inclusion. On the other hand when the shear motion was perpendicular to the direction of corrugation the measured shear modulus was more than twice that of a smooth inclusion. Finally the constant value of about 3 0.5 kPa in G G Gand Gaway from the inclusions corresponded to the shear modulus of the gelatin matrix.

The ratio of the shear modulus when measured perpendicular to the direction of corrugation to the elastic modulus G E was used to determine malignancy. It is known that Poisson s ratio v of an isotropic tissue or soft material is 0.5 which gives a G E ratio of about 0.3. We plot G Eand G Ein for the S and R inclusions and G Eand G Ein for the S and R inclusions. Note that include the results from the S and R inclusions made from all three different modeling clays C54 C92 and C145 which is also summarized in Table I.

The shear modulus when measured perpendicular to the direction of corrugation was more than twice that measured parallel to the corrugation or that measured over a smooth inclusion. As a result the G E ratio was enhanced to over 0.7 above a rough inclusion when measured perpendicular to the corrugation in contrast to the G E ratio of a smooth inclusion or that of a rough inclusion measured parallel to the corrugation. Without wishing to be bound by theory the enhanced shear modulus and hence the enhanced G E ratio over a rough inclusion when measured perpendicular to the direction of corrugation was due to the interlocking nature of the corrugated surface which rendered it harder for either the gelatin or the modeling clay to move horizontally when subject to a shear stress.

To investigate whether the G E ratio would change with a different degree of interfacial roughness the E and G were measured along a scan path at an angle to the x axis as schematically shown in . The obtained G E ratio versus distance from the center of the inclusion at various is shown in . With respect to all distances were normalized such that the inclusions had the same width at all angles for easier comparison. As can be seen the G E ratio progressively increased from 0.33 for 0 parallel to corrugation to above 0.7 for 90 above the rough inclusion whereas for the smooth inclusion the G E ratio remained around 0.33 regardless of the angle and whether it was above the inclusion or the gelatin. While changing the angle of the scan path relative to the direction of corrugation was not the only way to artificially increase the interfacial roughness it served to illustrate that G E ratio of the inclusion increased with the artificial increase in interfacial roughness as increased from 0 to 90 .

Additionally the tested PEFS contact size was 3.8 mm which was larger than the groove width 2 mm. Therefore most likely in most measurements the contact area either covered only a modeling clay tooth or part of a modeling clay tooth and part of a groove. Under such conditions the depth of the R inclusion was essentially the depth of the modeling clay teeth which was what was used for comparison in this study. However if the contact size were smaller than the groove size the measured shear modulus might differ depending on whether the measurement was above a tooth either partially or completely or entirely above a groove. The shear modulus measured above a tooth would be similar to what we measured in this study whereas that measured above a groove may be different as the groove had a much larger depth than the teeth.

A PEFS was investigated to determine the depth sensitivity of elastic modulus measurements. The PEFS was fabricated from two piezoelectric layers namely a top 127 um thick PZT layer 105 H4E 602 Piezo System Cambridge Mass. that functioned to drive a bottom 127 um thick sensing PZT layer bonded to a 50 um thick stainless steel layer Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. . The stainless steel layer formed a square tip at a distal end of the PEFS that was used to perform compression and shear tests.

To determine the depth sensitivity of the PEFS artificial tissue samples were prepared by embedding modeling clay model inclusions having an elastic modulus of about 80 kPa in a gelatin matrix which has an elastic modulus of about 4 1 kPa at various depths ranging from 2 to 17 mm as shown in . The elastic moduli of the model tissues were then measured by indentation compression tests using three PEFS of various widths namely 8.6 mm 6.1 mm and 3.6 mm. The resultant elastic moduli of the model tissues were then plotted versus the depth at which the modeling clay were embedded in the gelatin matrix as shown in . The white green and red bars correspond to elastic moduli measured by the 8.6 mm 6.1 mm and 3.6 mm wide PEFS respectively. As can be seen the elastic moduli of the model tissues were essentially the same as that of gelatin matrix at a depth of 8 mm red 12 mm green and 16 mm black for the 3.6 mm red 6.1 mm green and 8.6 mm black wide PEFS respectively. shows a graph of the resultant depth sensitivity limit which proves that the depth sensitivity limit of a PEFS is approximately twice the width of the contact area.

The depth sensitivity of the PEFS of Example 1 defined as the maximum depth for which it is possible to obtain an accurate measurement was investigated to determine sensor accuracy and reliability. Specifically the depth sensitivity of the PEFS was investigated for determining the shear modulus and the G E ratio of a tissue sample. Similar to previous studies which have confirmed that elastic modulus measurements are accurate to a depth sensitivity of about twice the size of the contact area of the PEFS the depth limit for shear modulus measurements and the G E ratio was also found to be about twice the size of the contact area.

The shear modulus of seven S inclusions embedded in artificial tissue samples and seven R inclusions embedded in artificial tissue samples were investigated. Each inclusion was about 22 mm long and 12 mm wide and was made of C92 modeling clay which has an elastic modulus that closely mimics that of breast tumors. The inclusions were embedded at varying depths within a gelatin matrix. The depths of the inclusions were as summarized in Table II.

The depth sensitivity of a PEFS array was also investigated. It was found that PEFS arrays have enhanced depth sensitivity in comparison to a single PEFS.

The study involved performing depth sensitivity measurements using an array of two 3.8 mm wide PEFS s. The PEFS s were arranged side by side as schematically shown in to measure the elastic modulus of an artificial tissue containing modeling clay inclusions of various depths similar to those shown in the insert in . The two PEFS s were placed at the center above each model inclusion. The measurements by the two PEFS s were synchronized. That is the applied voltages to the driving PZT layers of both PEFS s were applied at the same time with the same magnitude. The induced voltages at the sensing PZT layers of the two PEFS s were also measured at the same time. As previously determined in Example 2 the depth sensitivity of a PEFS is about twice the width of the PEFS. By synchronizing the measurements of two neighboring PEFS s the PEFS array acted as one large PEFS. Therefore the combined width of the PEFS s enhanced the overall depth sensitivity. shows a graph of the measured elastic modulus as a function of measured inclusion depth d obtained from the synchronized PEFS array.

For comparison depth sensitivity measurements were also performed using a single PEFS at the center location above the inclusion as schematically shown in . shows the elastic modulus as a function of depth for both the PEFS and PEFS array. The synchronized measurements enabled the PEFS array to detect inclusions up to 13 mm in depth while the single PEFS could only detect inclusions less than 7 mm deep. The results shown in indicated that the depth sensitivity of the PEFS array doubled relative to a single PEFS. The depth sensitivity of synchronized PEFS arrays will be roughly twice the width of the contract area of the array.

Sample excised breast tissues were evaluated to determine the type malignancy invasiveness and depth of the tumor within the tissue samples.

In one portion of the study the shear moduli of excised breast tissues were measured by indentation shear tests using a 8 mm wide PEFS. shows the shear modulus profile for a sample excised breast tissue containing an invasive and malignant ductal carcinoma. also shows the elastic modulus profile measured with the same PEFS. As can be seen like the elastic modulus measurement the indentation shear measurement is capable of detecting the higher shear modulus of the tumor as compared to the shear modulus of the surrounding tissue.

Moreover the G E ratio was usable to discern the roughness of the interface between the inclusion and the surrounding matrix . In the shear modulus is plotted as a function of the G E ratio and demonstrates that the G E ratio of the tumor was well over 0.7 as compared to the G E ratio of about 0.3 of the surrounding tissue. This result evidences that high G E ratios greater than about 0.3 may be correlated to invasive cancers.

As noted by the evaluating surgeon hyperplasia is difficult to identify by palpation. Pathologically it is an abnormal growth with no clear boundary. Therefore because a PEFS can detect hyperplasia in both E and G scans and this example has shown that hyperplasia exhibits a different G E ratio from an invasive ductal carcinoma or a ductal carcinoma in situ it can be used as a sensitive and robust screening tool for detecting various types of breast abnormalities.

A total of 42 ex vivo breast tissue samples were evaluated and compared to pathology tissue analysis. The types of tumors are listed in Table III.

As shown in Table IV the malignancy of the tumors was also evaluated in terms of the G E ratio of the tissue samples.

In addition using a G E ratio of 0.7 as a criterion it was also possible to differentiate invasive tumors such as invasive carcinoma from non invasive tumors such as ductal carcinoma as shown in Table VI above. The sensitivity was 96 23 out 24 the specificity was 89 16 out 18 and the accuracy was 93 39 out 42 . The positive prediction value was 92 23 out 25 and the negative prediction value was 94 16 out 17 . These results are also listed in Table V. As can be seen PEFS achieved 96 sensitivity 89 specificity and 93 accuracy for predicting invasive carcinoma.

Additionally as part of the study two PEFS s of different widths were used to perform elastic modulus profile measurements on the same tumor to determine the tumor depth and tumor elasticity simultaneously without simulations. shows the elastic modulus profile of a tumor using an 8 mm wide and 3 mm wide PEFS. From one can see that using two PEFS s of different widths the resultant elastic modulus profiles were different due to the different depth sensitivity limits of the two PEFS s. From the two elastic modulus profiles it was possible to deduce the elastic modulus E and depth of the tumor d using the following equations 

The ex vivo breast tissue experiment of Example 5 above was subsequently continued the resulting data for which is provided below. In total 71 breast tissue samples were evaluated and compared to pathology tissue analysis.

The average E and G of the normal breast tissues of all 71 samples was E 13 3 kPa and G 4.4 1 kPa where n denotes normal tissue. Of the 71 cases there were 33 cases of invasive carcinoma IC 32 cases of invasive ductal carcinoma and 1 case of invasive lobular carcinoma 9 cases of ductal carcinoma in situ DCIS and 19 cases of benign conditions BC including fibrocystic hyperplasia calcifications fibroadenoma papilloma and glandular tissues.

As an example show the E map of a mastectomy sample with an insert showing a PEF in the E measurement configuration and the G map with an insert showing the PEF in a G measurement configuration respectively. In the E and G maps shown in respectively the light colored region represented the E or G of the normal breast tissues and the dark colored region indicated abnormally high E and G signature of abnormal tissues. Clearly using the contrast in the E or G map one could locate the abnormal tissue within the excised sample and determine the size of the abnormal region. Both the E and G are higher at the tumor site an invasive ductal carcinoma exhibits a G E 0.7 than at the surrounding tissue. With such detection strategy PEFS has exhibited remarkably high detection sensitivity for abnormal breast tissues namely about 100 sensitivity with p

The PEFS was also found to be effective in accurately determining tumor size. shows a graph comparing the tumor size measurements using the PEFS and tumor size determined by pathology. The results were statistically the same. It is important to note that 26 of these samples included skin and nipple. Therefore the results demonstrate that the presence of skin and nipple did not affect the quality of the PEFS measurements. Table VII shows the average measured values of E and G for carcinoma in situ CIS IC and benign tumors. As can be seen these values are 3 5 times that of the normal breast tissues regardless of patient s age.

Table VIIII shows that different type of tumors exhibited different G E ratios. For example the dark colored region in indicated G E 0.7 which corresponded to IC.

Thus as shown in Table IX with G E 0.7 alone and G E 0.7 or G E 0.3 it was possible to predict invasive carcinoma and malignant tumors including both IC and CIS with 89 sensitivity and 82 specificity and 96 sensitivity and 54 specificity respectively.

Of the 71 ex vivo breast tissue samples 25 cases had a high elastic modulus and shear modulus as shown in representative of mechanically dense breast tissue. As discussed above the detection sensitivity of abnormalities in these 25 cases with mechanically dense breast tissue was also 100 . Moreover using the same G E criteria discussed above a diagnosis of invasive carcinoma in these 25 samples was determined with 93 sensitivity and 80 specificity and a diagnosis of malignancy in these 25 samples was determined with 94 sensitivity and 63 specificity see Table X which was essentially the same sensitivity and specificity as for the entire age group. This data further supports the conclusion that PEFS were able to detect breast tumors in dense breast tissue as well as in other breast tissue.

The use of the PEFS in excised breast tumors has been evaluated in the laboratory. A lumpectomy specimen was taken from a 60 year old woman with breast cancer. The known malignancy was 1.4 cm in the largest dimension. After surgical excision the specimen was oriented with silk sutures scanned with ultrasound and images were stored. The PEFS scan was performed in the same orientation to allow later correlation with the ultrasound image. The specimen was sectioned in the same orientation to allow histological confirmation of the PEFS findings as well. Using the PEFS preliminary elastic modulus measurements were performed on breast lumpectomy samples using an 8 mm wide PEFS with a rectangular tip. A lateral elastic modulus profile of a lumpectomy sample measured with an 8 mm wide PEFS was able to distinguish cancerous tissue from the surrounding tissues. The PEFS scan was able to identify a large 15 13 12 mm invasive ductal carcinoma and a smaller 6 5 3 mm satellite invasive ductal carcinoma. Notably this smaller lesion was not detected by mammogram ultrasound or the physician s preoperative palpation. The location and size of the detected tumors were verified by pathology measurements.

A 51 year old patient with a possible breast tumor on the right side 10 o clock of her right breast was examined. Mammography missed the tumor. shows a robotic arm positioning a PEFS array on the patient s breast while the patient was in a supine position. The PEFS array is constructed from 4 individual PEFS sensors as shown in . A close up of the PEFS array is shown in . The patient s skin was marked with 7 reference labels at 10 mm intervals indicating the position of the tumor. The PEF array was moved over the reference labels from left to right. The measurements were carried out with one PEFS at a time. The depth sensitivity limit was about 2 cm. shows the measurements obtained by the PEFS. The elastic modulus of the tumor region was about 28 kPa whereas the elastic modulus of the rest of the area was about 10 11 kPa. Based on this information it was deduced that the tumor was about 2.5 cm 1.7 cm which was close to the actual 2.5 cm size of the tumor that was determined by pathology.

The same tumor was also evaluated using two PEFS in sync. The elastic modulus measurement over the tumor with two PEFS in sync was about 38 kPa. The elastic modulus of normal breast tissue also increased indicating that when two PEFS were operated in sync the measurements also include part of the chest wall due to the doubling of depth sensitivity. This suggests that the depth sensitivity of the PEFS array was adequate.

Both the PEFS and PEFS array successfully located the tumor and the PEFS array accurately determined its size. Additionally the patient noted no discomfort during the procedure.

To decrease the scan time for patient screening and improve the device performance a PEFS system including an n 1 PEFS array having a contact area of about 4 10 cm a portable measurement unit and a robotic arm for automatic rapid scanning can be constructed. Each PEFS will be about a 3 cm long and about 8 10 mm wide and will have a top PZT layer 3 cm long 8 10 mm wide and 127 m thick T105 H4E 602 Piezo Systems Inc. Cambridge Mass. for force application and a 2 cm long bottom PZT layer of the same thickness and width for sensing. The top and bottom PZT layers may be bonded to a 50 m thick stainless steel layer Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. of the same width in the middle using a nonconductive epoxy Henkel Loctite Corporation Industry Calif. cured at room temperature for one day. The tip of the stainless steel middle layer will be fashioned into a square loop at the free end with each side of the square equal to the width of the cantilever to facilitate both compression and shear measurements. The PEFS will be clamped inside a holder shown in with a top that can be screwed on as shown in and a bottom that can also be screwed on as shown in to help protect the PEFS and flatten the breast surface to ensure a full contact between the PEFS surfaces and the breast for measurement accuracy.

For elastic modulus measurements the PEFS of the array will be oriented parallel to the tissue surface and will be positioned horizontally similar to . To measure the shear modulus the PEFS of the array will be oriented perpendicular to the tissue surface. The arrangement of the PEFS array will be such that the contour of the contact area of the array best matches that of the contour of the breasts. The size of the array may vary to best adapt to breasts of different sizes.

The PEFS array will be used to scan excised tissues to obtain E and G maps. From the E or G maps it will be possible to determine the tumor size using the width at half peak E or G value. For determination of tumor depth two PEFS of different contact areas in an array will be used to take measurements at the same location. The type of tumor and the malignancy and invasiveness of the tumor will be correlated with the obtained G E ratio and the size location and tumor type will be compared with the results of ultrasound and pathology for validation

To establish that the PEFS array can detect breast cancers in young women and women with mammographically dense breasts PEFS measured normal tissue elastic and shear modulus in the ex vivo samples will be compared with breast density determined by mammography.

The PEFS will also be used to probe patients. Accuracy for detection of cancerous versus non cancerous tissue tumor margins and tumor centers as well as normal breast tissue elastic modulus and shear modulus will be determined. The abnormality detection efficacy in women with pathology of all types breast sizes and densities will be evaluated. PEFS scan will be correlated with the histological sections to confirm the borders of the tumor and characteristics of the normal and malignant tissue. The experiment will also compare in vivo as well as ex vivo normal tissue E and G obtained using the PEFS with the patient s mammographic density. The in vivo and ex vivo results tumor size and location and tumor type will also be compared.

Three PEFS were used to determine the precise location and position of an inclusion representative of abnormal tissue in a gelatin tissue sample model. The cantilevers were built with Lead Zirconate Titanate PZT sheets 127 microns thick T105 H4E 602 Piezo Systems Inc. Cambridge Mass. and stainless steel 304 foil 50 microns thick Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. .

The two layers of sample model had a total thickness of 2 mm. Because the probes are to measure into but not further than the bottom fat layer of the model the probes have diameters inside the range of 0.5 mm to 1 mm To determine T E and E three cantilevers with three different probe contact areas are used. The cantilevers have varying probe contact areas in order to achieve depth sensitivities in the range of human skin. Table XI below shows the probe sizes and the resulting sensing depth for each of the three cantilevers. Probes for the cantilevers were made from galvanized steel wire 24 22 and 20 gauge . The wires were cut with wire cutters to lengths of about 2 mm and glued to the free end of the cantilevers with superglue as follows 

A k value under 175 N m gives the cantilevers the proper flexibility to comply with skin and keeps the strain that the sample patient must endure to a minimum 

E is measured using an indentation test. Applying voltage to the driving layer of PZT moves the probe into the sample a distance d. Because induced voltages V in the sensing PZT layer are linear to displacement of the free end of the cantilever we the induced voltages can be correlated to displacement d. Induced voltages and displacements resulting from a range of applied voltages with and without a sample under the probe will be measured with an oscilloscope and a laser displacement meter respectively. The resistive force that the sample exerts back on the probe inhibits the displacement resulting from the applied voltage. V the induced voltage with no sample and V the induced voltage with a sample for several applied voltages V are used to calculate effective modulus E of the entire sample not individual layers . E is related to Vby the following equation 

The slope of X versus Vfor the six applied voltages gives the effective E of the sample. Because there are three cantilevers with three different probing depths three different effective E values of the sample E E and E will be measured. These values will be used to calculate T E and Eusing a system of equations that model the two layer model as two springs in a series.

The foregoing examples have been presented for the purpose of illustration and description and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any way. The scope of the invention is to be determined from the claims appended hereto.

