---

title: Multi-layer chemical and biological protection fabric for mobile shelters
abstract: A lightweight, low bulk, mobile CB shelter fabric includes a high tensile strength woven scrim laminated between two thin CB-impenetrable polymer films. Laminate adhesives can include isocyanate adhesion promotors. Coatings can provide camouflage, increased light opacity, increased CB protection, sun, fire, and weather resistance. Lamination heat and pressure can cause the films to conform and bond through the scrim, while a pre-applied coating does not flow and remains uniform in thickness. The resulting fabric weight can be approximately 50% of conventional CB fabrics. The films can be hard-drawn polymers. A coating of hammer milled kaolin clay can provide increased light opacity. The films can be 1 micron thick, and can be nylon, aliphatic nylon, urethane, or poly-ether. The scrim can be a 1500 denier Vectran® (liquid crystal polymer) with a 4.5 ends-per-inch warp and a 3.5 ends-per-inch fill. The scrim yarns can be flattened bundles of untwisted fiber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09616257&OS=09616257&RS=09616257
owner: Warwick Mills Inc.
number: 09616257
owner_city: New Ipswich
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130724
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 674 896 filed Jul. 24 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Portions of the present invention may have been made in conjunction with Government funding under contract number W911QY 11 C 0078 and there may be certain rights to the Government.

The invention relates to fabrics used in the manufacture of mobile shelters and more particularly to fabrics used in the manufacture of mobile shelters that provide protection against chemical and biological agents.

A continuing need exists for mobile shelters or shelter liners that can protect soldiers and emergency workers from chemical and biological CB agents. Of course these mobile shelters must also protect occupants from environmental conditions such as rain and wind and they must be resistant to fire as well as the long term effects of direct sun exposure. Often such shelters must also have a camouflaged exterior and they must be opaque to visible and infrared light so as to reduce detectability when sources of heat and light are present within the shelter at night.

The mobility of a mobile shelter is directly dependent on the weight and packed volume of the fabric used in its manufacture. Current chemical and biological barrier fabrics are typically manufactured by selecting a woven fabric having a desired tensile strength and applying one or more coatings to the fabric that will provide the required protection.

The use of a woven fabric as the basic material from which to fabricate a mobile shelter is dictated by the need for high flexibility combined with high tensile strength. However woven fabrics by their nature have an uneven surface whereby as much as 50 or more of the surface consists of pockets or gaps that lie between the interwoven yarns. When applying CB protective coatings these gaps must be filled by the applied coating material before the coating material can form a protective surface layer over the entire fabric. The excess coating material that fills these gaps can significantly increase the bulk and mass of the coated protective fabric while contributing little if anything to the protective qualities of the fabric.

CB barrier materials typically have a mass of approximately 25 oz yd and are often provided as liners for standard mobile shelters. These heavy and bulky materials can create a high logistical burden and setup time to warfighters. The burden is so great that often the liners are not supplied or are rarely installed resulting in fielded shelters that are often not ready to provide CB protection. For example a typical fabric shelter with a bed capacity of 44 requires an additional CBRN liner with a mass 5 570 lbs and with a packed volume of approximately 808 ft.

What is needed therefore is a barrier fabric for a mobile shelter that can provide chemical and biological protection equivalent to or better than fabrics currently in use but with a significantly lower weight and bulk.

A lightweight low bulk mobile shelter fabric that provides chemical and biological protection equivalent to or better than current designs is formed by sandwiching and laminating a high tensile strength woven scrim between two thin CB impenetrable films. The woven scrim provides the required tensile strength while the outer and inner films provide the necessary barrier to chemical and biological agents.

In embodiments the inner and outer films also provide smooth surfaces to which coatings can be applied for camouflage increased light opacity increased CB protection sun and weather resistance flame resistance adhesion and other requirements as needed. Due to the smooth impenetrable nature of the films any such applied coatings remain entirely on the surface thereby minimizing the bulk and weight added by the coatings. In some of these embodiments the coatings are made with reduced viscosity in solvent formulations while in other embodiments they are made as reactive formulations.

In various embodiments the films are applied to the scrim with sufficient heat and pressure to create a conformal laminate in which the films penetrate into the window regions in the weave of the scrim causing the thermoplastic urethane on the inside faces of the films to flow together to form one adhesive layer encapsulating a scrim between them thereby strengthening the attachment of the films to the laminate. As a result the films in these embodiments are no longer strictly flat.

In some of these embodiments at least one coating is applied to a film before lamination of the films onto the scrim. The applied heating and pressure are controlled so that the bonding of the inside faces of the films through the scrim weave is maximized without causing the coating to flow. As a result the thickness of the coating on the film remains uniform even though the underlying film is no longer completely flat. Substantially complete coverage of the laminate by the coating is thereby maintained without requiring additional coating material to fill the windows in the scrim weave. If the face coating were allowed to flow during lamination then excess coating material would tend to flow into the depressions where the films penetrated into the scrim windows and expose yarns creating pinholes disrupting opacity. Additional coating mass would be required to fill any holes created thereby increasing the overall system mass.

In some embodiments the films are hard drawn polymer films whereby the hard drawn feature increases the crystallinity of the polymer and thereby increases the polymer density and reduces its permeability to CB agents.

In various embodiments the films have a roughness of less than 10 microns. In some embodiments hammer milled kaolin clay is applied to at least one of the films either as a separate coating or as a disbursed additive in an elastomeric coating so as to increase light opacity.

In some embodiments at least one of the films is a 1 mil nylon film. In other embodiments at least one of the films is a 1 mil polyimide films or a 1 mil polyester film.

In embodiments the outer film is coated with an aliphatic urethane for superior weathering and color stability. This urethane can be pigmented to provide camouflage or other required cosmetic appearance. In some embodiments urethane resin is mixed into a solvent in which it is soluble to create a urethane coating that can be applied to the film. The percentage of solids in the mixture affects the coating s viscosity which impacts the final coating deposited. Heating the coating to an elevated temperature of at least 180 F after application to a substrate causes the solvent to rapidly evaporate depositing the urethane onto the film and forming a solid coating.

In various embodiments a two part urethane herein referred to as 2K urethane is applied as a coating to one of the film surfaces. 2K urethane coatings are created by reacting the two components used to form urethanes polyols and isocyanates directly on the film. Controlling temperature of the two components during mixing allows for the coating viscosity to be maintained for consistent pickup. Forming the urethane directly on the film enhances adhesion of the coating to the film. Adjustments to the 2K urethane recipes can be made to control the amount of crosslinking in the polymer which can alter the film s hardness and can adjust its thermo plasticity. Controlling the thermo plasticity of the film coatings allows for the thermal lamination of the material without causing the coating to flow.

The inner surface can be coated with a poly ether urethane for improved strength and reduced cost since the inner surface is shielded from weathering and UV light. These coatings are typically applied in a solvent based process described supra.

In various embodiments the use of high bulk strength adhesives overcomes the shear failure often seen in laminated systems between a hard fabric and film. In some embodiments the use of isocynate adhesion promoters in combination with the crosslinking of the adhesives reduces adhesive failure.

In embodiments the scrim is a 1500 denier Vectran liquid crystal polymer scrim having 4.5 and 3.5 ends per inch in the warp and fill directions respectively.

In various embodiments the yarn bundles of the scrim are spread into flattened shapes so as to reduce the thickness of the scrim and increase its surface area or cover factor thereby providing more surface area for adhesion between the scrim and the film. Increased bonding surface area helps to overcome the delamination often seen in laminated systems. Flat yarns help to create an overall flatter laminate and reduce the stress put onto the film at the knuckles where the yarns cross during lamination. This stress can lead to pinholes in coatings and sometimes in films.

One general aspect of the present invention is a multi layer fabric suitable for constructing mobile shelters that provide protection against chemical and biological agents. The fabric includes a woven scrim an outer polymer film layer attached by a first adhesive to an outer surface of the woven scrim and an inner polymer film layer attached by a second adhesive to an inner surface of the woven scrim at least one of the outer polymer film layer and the inner polymer film layer being resistant to penetration by chemical and biological CB agents.

In embodiments at least one of the films is made from a hard drawn polymer. In some embodiments at least one of the films has a roughness of less than 10 microns.

In various embodiments at least one coating is applied to at least one surface of one of the films. In some of these embodiments the coating includes a hammer milled kaolin clay. In other of these embodiments the coating provides a camouflaged exterior appearance to the fabric. In still other of these embodiments the coating provides at least one of increased light opacity increased infra red opacity increased CB penetration protection flame retardance and increased resistance to damage from sunlight. In yet other of these embodiments the coating includes an aliphatic urethane. In still other of these embodiments the coating is formed by reacting two components directly on the film. And in yet other of these embodiments the coating is uniform in thickness.

In certain embodiments the outer and inner polymer films conform to the weave of the scrim and the outer and inner film layers are bonded to each other through openings in the scrim weave.

In embodiments at least one of the first adhesive and the second adhesive includes an isocyanate adhesion promoter. In some embodiments at least one of the films is a 1 mil film made from at least one of nylon polyimide and polyester. In other embodiments at least one of the films is flame retardant. various embodiments the outer film is an aliphatic nylon. In certain embodiments the inner film is coated with a poly ether urethane. And in some embodiments the scrim is a Vectran liquid crystal polymer scrim.

In various embodiments the scrim is a 1500 denier Vectran liquid crystal polymer scrim. In some of these embodiments the scrim has 4.5 and 3.5 ends per inch in the warp and fill directions respectively.

Another general aspect of the present invention is a method for fabricating a multi layer fabric suitable for constructing mobile shelters that provide protection against chemical and biological agents. The method includes applying a first adhesive to an outer surface of a woven scrim applying an outer polymer film to the outer surface of the woven scrim applying a second adhesive to an inner surface of the woven scrim applying an inner polymer film to the inner surface of the woven scrim and applying at least one of pressure and heat to the assembled scrim and films so as to cure and set the adhesives.

Embodiments further include applying a coating to at least one surface of at least one of the films. In some of these embodiments the coating includes a hammer milled kaolin clay. In other of these embodiments the coating is applied with a uniform thickness to the film before the film is laminated onto the scrim sufficient heat and pressure are applied during the lamination to cause the films to conform to the weave of the scrim and to bond to each other through openings in the scrim weave and the applied heat and pressure are insufficient to cause the coating to flow so that the coating remains uniform in thickness after the lamination.

In still other of these embodiments the coating is formed by reacting two components on the surface of the film. And in yet other of these embodiments at least one of the adhesives is applied using an isocyanate adhesion promoter.

And in various embodiments further include preparing yarns made of untwisted bundles of fiber spreading the untwisted bundles into flattened shapes and weaving the flattened yarns to form the woven scrim.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

The present invention is a lightweight low bulk multi layer fabric that can be used to construct mobile shelters for protecting occupants against chemical and biological CB agents as well as environmental factors such as rain wind and sun exposure. The fabric of the present invention provides chemical and biological protection that is equivalent to or better than current designs while the bulk and weight of the present invention are typically about half of the bulk and weight of the currently used materials. For example typical CB protection materials currently weigh about 20 oz yd while embodiments of the present invention weigh only about 12 oz ydor less.

The excess weight and bulk of the currently used fabrics arises mainly from excess coating material that must fill in the gaps between yarns in the woven fabric before a protective coating can be formed over the entire surface. Of course this problem could be avoided by using a non woven fabric such as a polymer sheet. However a polymer sheet cannot provide the required tensile strength unless it is made so thick that it is no longer sufficiently flexible.

With reference to the present invention resolves this dilemma by providing a multi layer solution . The outer and inner layers are thin polymer films that have a high resistance to CB agents and provide smooth surfaces for the application of coatings as required. A woven scrim is sandwiched between the two film layers so as to provide the required tensile strength. Accordingly this multi layer approach combines the CB barrier and smooth surface advantages of a polymer film with the tensile strength advantage of a woven fabric.

In certain embodiments either or both of the film layers is a hard drawn polymer film whereby the hard drawn feature increases the crystallinity of the polymer and thereby increases the polymer density and reduces its permeability to CB agents.

In embodiments the use of high bulk strength adhesives overcomes the shear failure often seen in laminated systems between a hard fabric and film. In some embodiments the use of Isocynate adhesion promoters in combination with the crosslinking of the adhesives reduces adhesive failure.

With reference to in various embodiments the films are applied to the scrim with sufficient heat and pressure to create a conformal laminate in which the films penetrate into the window regions in the weave of the scrim causing the thermoplastic urethane on the inside faces of the films to flow together to form one adhesive layer encapsulating the scrim between them thereby strengthening the attachment of the films to the laminate . As a result the films in these embodiments are no longer strictly flat. Note that is a close up exploded view of the laminate of .

While the polymer film layers themselves provide significant protection against CB agents it can be desirable to apply coatings to the outer and or to the inner surfaces of the multilayer fabric assembly for camouflage increased light opacity increased CB protection sun and weather resistance flame resistance and other requirements as needed. Due to the smooth impenetrable nature of the films any such applied coatings remain entirely on the surfaces thereby minimizing their added bulk and weight. In various embodiments the films have a roughness of less than 10 microns.

In some embodiments at least one coating is applied to a film before lamination of the films onto the scrim. In embodiments such as the applied heating and pressure are controlled so that the bonding of the inside faces of the films through the scrim weave is maximized without causing the coating to flow. As a result the thickness of the coating on the film remains uniform even though the underlying film is no longer completely flat. Substantially complete coverage of the laminate by the coating is thereby maintained without requiring additional coating material to fill the windows in the scrim weave . If the face coating were allowed to flow during lamination then excess coating material would tend to flow into the depressions where the films penetrate into the scrim windows and additional coating mass would be required to fill any holes created thereby increasing the overall system mass.

In some of these embodiments the coatings are made with reduced viscosity in solvent formulations while in other embodiments they are made as reactive formulations.

In various embodiments a two part urethane herein referred to as 2K urethane is applied as a coating to one of the film surfaces. 2K urethane coatings are created by reacting the two components used to form urethanes polyols and isocyanates directly on the film. Forming the urethane directly on the film enhances adhesion of the coating to the film. Adjustments to the 2K urethane recipes can be made to control the amount of crosslinking in the polymer which can alter the film s hardness and can adjust its thermo plasticity. Controlling the thermo plasticity of the film coatings allows for the thermal lamination of the material without causing the coating to flow.

The weathering film section is joined by an adhesive layer to a central thin ply scrim which in this embodiment is a 1500 denier Vectran liquid crystal polymer scrim having 4.5 and 3.5 ends per inch in the warp and fill directions respectively.

A back coated film section includes a second barrier film with a white back coating on its exterior surface for cosmetic purposes and a second opacity layer on its other surface. The back coated film section is joined by the adhesive layer to the inner side of the scrim . The weight of each layer is indicated in the figure providing a total weight of 11.2 oz yd.

In some embodiments at least one of the films is a 1 mil nylon film. In other embodiments at least one of the films is coated with a urethane which provides good flame retardance and color. In the embodiments of the outer film is an aliphatic nylon for superior weathering while the inner film is a poly ether for improved strength and reduced cost.

With reference to in various embodiments the yarn bundles of the scrim are untwisted bundles of fibers that are initially round but are spread into flattened shapes so as to reduce the thickness of the scrim and increase its surface area or cover factor thereby providing more surface area for adhesion of the film layers and reducing any tendency of the films to be depressed into gaps between the scrim yarns. shows a first bundle of fibers as it appears before spreading and a second bundle of fibers as it appears after spreading.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

