---

title: Managing information and content sharing in a virtual collaboration session
abstract: Systems and methods for managing information and content sharing in a virtual collaboration session. In some embodiments, a method may include creating a virtual collaboration workspace for a plurality of participants, where each of the participants operates a device configured to access the workspace, the workspace including a public portion and a plurality of private portions, the public portion accessible to each of the participants and each of the plurality of private portions accessible to a corresponding participant to the exclusion of at least another participant. The method may also include providing, to a given one of the participants, a representation of the public portion and a representation of the given participant's corresponding private portion, where the representation of the public portion and the representation of the given participant's corresponding private portion are renderable concurrently in a single window of a graphical user interface displayable by the given participant's device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398059&OS=09398059&RS=09398059
owner: DELL PRODUCTS, L.P.
number: 09398059
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131122
---
This disclosure relates generally to computer systems and more specifically to systems and methods for managing information and content sharing in a virtual collaboration session.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option is an Information Handling System IHS . An IHS generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements may vary between different applications IHSs may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in IHSs allow for IHSs to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage global communications etc. In addition IHSs may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

In some situations two or more IHSs may be operated by different users or team members participating in a virtual collaboration session or virtual meeting. Generally speaking virtual collaboration is a manner of collaboration between users that is carried out via technology mediated communication. Although virtual collaboration may follow similar processes as conventional collaboration the parties involved in a virtual collaboration session communicate with each other at least in part through technological channels.

In the case of an IHS or computer mediated collaboration a virtual collaboration session may include for example audio conferencing video conferencing a chat room a discussion board text messaging instant messaging shared database s whiteboarding wikis application specific groupware or the like. For instance whiteboarding is the placement of shared images documents or other files on a shared on screen notebook or whiteboard. Videoconferencing and data conferencing functionality may let users annotate these shared documents as if on a physical whiteboard. With such an application several people may be able to work together remotely on the same materials during a virtual collaboration session.

Embodiments of systems and methods for managing information and content sharing in a virtual collaboration session are described herein. In an illustrative non limiting embodiment a method may include creating a virtual collaboration workspace for a plurality of participants where each of the plurality of participants operates a respective device configured to access the virtual collaboration workspace the virtual collaboration workspace including a public portion and a plurality of private portions the public portion accessible to each of the plurality of participants and each of the plurality of private portions accessible to a corresponding one of the plurality of participants to the exclusion of at least another one of the plurality of participants. The method may also include providing to a given one of the plurality of participants a representation of the public portion and a representation of the given participant s corresponding private portion where the representation of the public portion and the representation of the given participant s corresponding private portion are renderable concurrently in a single window of a graphical user interface displayable by the given participant s respective device.

In some implementations the IHS may include a projector and the method may include hosting a virtual collaboration session among the plurality of participants using the virtual collaboration workspace. For example the projector may be configured to create a rendering of the public portion the rendering viewable in person by at least a subset of the plurality of participants independently of whether the public portion is being displayed by the subset of participants respective devices. Also the virtual collaboration workspace may include a virtual whiteboard and the method may include storing one or more aspects of the virtual collaboration workspace for reproduction after termination of the virtual collaboration session.

The method may also include maintaining an access control list for a piece of content stored in a folder associated with the virtual collaboration workspace. As such the method may include receiving an indication that the given participant has added a piece of content to the public portion of the virtual collaboration workspace and creating or modifying an entry on the access control list corresponding to the piece of content the entry indicating that the piece of content is accessible to any of the plurality of participants.

In some cases the piece of content may be created by the given participant in a whiteboard section of the given participant s corresponding private portion using the given participant s respective device and prior to adding the piece of content an entry on the access control list may correspond to the piece of content indicates that the piece of content is accessible to a private group associated with the given participant the private group excluding one or more of the plurality of participants. Also the given participant may add the piece of content by visually dragging a graphical representation of the piece of content from the given participant s corresponding private portion onto the public portion.

In other cases the method may include receiving an indication that the given participant has added a piece of content to the given participant s corresponding private portion of the virtual collaboration workspace and creating an entry on the access control list corresponding to the piece of content the entry indicating that the piece of content is accessible to a private group associated with the given participant the private group excluding one or more of the plurality of participants.

The method may further include providing a list of participants having access to the virtual collaboration workspace to each of the plurality of participants such that the list of participants is renderable concurrently with the representation of the public portion and with the representation of the given participant s corresponding private portion in the single window of the graphical user interface displayable by the given participant s respective device.

The method may then include receiving an indication that the given participant has dragged and dropped a selected participant of the list of participants from the public portion to the given participant s corresponding private portion and creating or modifying an entry on the access control list corresponding to a piece of content associated with the given participant s corresponding private portion the entry indicating that the piece of content is accessible to the selected participant. Additionally or alternatively the method may include receiving an indication that the given participant has dragged and dropped a selected participant of the list of participants from the given participant s corresponding private portion to the public portion and creating or modifying an entry on the access control list corresponding to a piece of content associated with the given participant s corresponding private portion the entry indicating that the piece of content is not accessible to the selected participant.

In another illustrative non limiting embodiment another method may include establishing communications with a virtual collaboration host device the virtual collaboration host device configured to host a virtual collaboration workspace having a public portion and a plurality of private portions where the public portion is accessible to the plurality of participants and each of the plurality of private portions is accessible to a corresponding one of the plurality of participants to the exclusion of at least another one of the plurality of participants. The method may also include rendering in a single window of a graphical user interface a representation of the public portion and a representation of the given participant s corresponding private portion.

The method may further include identifying a dragging gesture configured to move a file to a file folder in the graphical user interface and uploading the file to a repository associated with the virtual collaboration workspace wherein the uploaded file inherits an authorization privileges defined by the file folder. Additionally or alternatively the method may include identifying a dragging gesture configured to move a file to the public portion of the virtual collaboration workspace and uploading the file to a repository associated with the virtual collaboration workspace wherein the uploaded file is readable by any of the plurality of participants.

In some implementations the method may include receiving a list of participants having access to the virtual collaboration workspace and rendering the list of participants concurrently with the representation of the public portion and the representation of the given participant s corresponding private portion in the single window of the graphical user interface. The method may also include identifying a dragging gesture configured to move content to a selected participant from the list of participants and transmitting an instruction that the selected participant be given moderator control over the content during the virtual collaboration session.

The method may include identifying a dragging gesture configured to move a selected participant from the list of participants to content displayed in the single window of the graphical user interface and transmitting an instruction that the selected participant be given editor control over the content during the virtual collaboration session. Additionally or alternatively the method may include identifying a dragging gesture moving a selected participant from a section of the list of participants in the public portion to another section of the list of participants in the given participant s corresponding private portion and transmitting an instruction that the selected participant be given editor control over content associated with the given participant s corresponding private portion during the virtual collaboration session.

In yet another illustrative non limiting embodiment yet another method may include receiving an indication that a given one of a plurality of participants of a virtual collaboration workspace has begun drawing on a shared whiteboard the drawing having an initial point and creating a virtual border around the initial point where the virtual border defines a protected area associated with the given participant and where the virtual border prevents at least another one of the plurality of participants from drawing within the protected area.

In some cases the method may include removing the virtual border a predetermined amount of time after the given participant stops drawing in the protected area. The method may also include determining that the protected area overlaps with another protected area associated with another one of the plurality of participants and shifting the protected area to a different location on the shared whiteboard in response to the determination and or reducing a size of the protected area.

In some embodiments one or more of the techniques described herein may be performed at least in part by an Information Handling System IHS operated by a given one of a plurality of participants of a virtual collaboration session. In other embodiments these techniques may be performed by an IHS having a processor and a memory coupled to the processor the memory including program instructions stored thereon that upon execution by the processor cause the IHS to execute one or more operations. In yet other embodiments a non transitory computer readable medium may have program instructions stored thereon that upon execution by an IHS cause the IHS to execute one or more of the techniques described herein.

To facilitate explanation of the various systems and methods discussed herein the following description has been split into sections. It should be noted however that the various sections headings and subheadings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to limit or otherwise modify the scope of the description or the claims.

The inventors hereof have recognized a need for new tools that enable better team interactions and improve effectiveness in the workplace particularly as the workforce becomes more geographically distributed and as the volume of business information created and exchanged increases to unprecedented levels. Existing tools intended to facilitate collaboration include digital whiteboarding instant messaging file sharing and unified communication platforms. Unfortunately such conventional tools are fragmented and do not adequately address certain problems specific to real time interactions. In addition these tools do not capitalize on contextual information for further gains in productivity and ease of use.

Examples of problems faced by distributed teams include the lack of a universally acceptable manner of performing whiteboarding sessions. The use of traditional dry erase boards in meeting rooms excludes or limits the ability of remote workers to contribute and current digital whiteboarding options are unnatural to use and are therefore not being adopted. In addition there are numerous inefficiencies in setting up meeting resources sharing in real time and distribution of materials after meetings such as emailing notes presentation materials and digital pictures of whiteboard sketches. Fragmentation across tool sets and limited format optimization for laptops tablets and the use of in room projectors present a further set of issues. Moreover the lack of continuity between meetings and desk work and across a meeting series including common file repositories persistent notes and whiteboard sketches and historical context can create a number of other problems and inefficiencies.

To address these and other concerns the inventors hereof have developed systems and methods that address among other things the setting up of resources for a virtual collaboration session the taking of minutes and capture of whiteboard sketches the creation and management to agendas and or provide the ability to have the right participants and information on hand for a collaboration session.

In some embodiments these systems and methods focus on leveraging technology to increase effectiveness of real time team interactions in the form of a connected productivity framework. A digital or virtual workspace part of such a framework may include an application that enables both in room and remote users the ability to interact easily with the collaboration tool in real time. The format of such a virtual workspace may be optimized for personal computers PCs tablets mobile devices and or in room projection. The workspace may be shared across all users personal devices and it may provide a centralized location for presenting files and whiteboarding in real time and from anywhere. The integration of context with unified communication and note taking functionality provides improved audio speaker identification and automation of meeting minutes.

The term context as used herein refers to information that may be used to characterize the situation of an entity. An entity is a person place or object that is considered relevant to the interaction between a user and an application including the user and application themselves. Examples of context include but are not limited to location people and devices nearby and calendar events.

For instance a connected productivity framework may provide among other things automation of meeting setup proximity awareness for automatic joining of sessions Natural User Interface NUI control of a workspace to increase the usability and adoption intelligent information management and advanced indexing and search and or meeting continuity. Moreover a set of client capabilities working in concert across potentially disparate devices may include access to a common shared workspace with public and private workspaces for file sharing and real time collaboration advanced digital whiteboarding with natural input to dynamically control access robust search functionality to review past work and or the ability to seamlessly moderate content flow authorization and intelligent information retrieval.

When certain aspects of the connected productivity framework described herein are applied to a projector for instance the projector may become a fixed point of reference providing contextual awareness. The projector may maintain a relationship to the room and associated resources e.g. peripheral hardware . This allows the projector be a central hub for organizing meetings and it does not necessarily rely on a host user and their device to be present for meeting and collaborating.

In some implementations a cloud hosted or enterprise service infrastructure as described herein may allow virtual collaboration session to be persistent. Specifically once a document drawing or other content is used during a whiteboard session for example the content may be tagged as belonging to that session. When a subsequent session takes places that is associated with a previous session and or when the previous session is resumed at a later time the content and transactions previously performed in the virtual collaboration environment may be retrieved so that to participants there is meeting continuity. In some embodiments the systems and methods described herein may provide digital video recorder DVR type functionality for collaboration sessions such that participants may be able to record meeting events and play those events back at a later time or pause the in session content in temporary memory. The latter feature may enable a team to pause a meeting when they exceed the scheduled time and resume the in session content in another available conference room for example.

As will be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art in light of this disclosure virtually any commercial business setting that requires meeting or collaboration may implement one or more aspects of the systems and methods described herein. Additionally aspects of the connected productivity framework described herein may be expanded to other areas such as educational verticals for use in classrooms or to consumers for general meet ups.

Turning now to a diagram illustrating an example of an environment where systems and methods for managing information and content sharing in a virtual collaboration session may be implemented is depicted according to some embodiments. As shown interactive collaboration tool operates as a central meeting host and or shared digital whiteboard for conference room in order to enable a virtual collaboration session. In some embodiments interactive collaboration tool may include or otherwise be coupled to a real time communications server a web server an object store server and or a database. Moreover interactive collaboration tool may be configured with built in intelligence and contextual awareness to simplify meeting setup and provide continuity between meetings and desk work.

In some implementations for example interactive collaboration tool may include a video projector or any other suitable digital and or image projector that receives a video signal e.g. from a computer a network device or the like and projects corresponding image s on a projection screen using a lens system or the like. In this example image corresponds to a whiteboarding application but it should be noted that any collaboration application may be hosted and or rendered using tool during a virtual collaboration session.

Any number of in room participants A N and any number of remote participants A N may each operate a respective IHS or computing device including for example desktops laptops tablets or smartphones. In a typical situation in room participants A N are in close physical proximity to interactive collaboration tool whereas remote participants A N are located in geographically distributed or remote locations such as other offices or their homes. In other situations however a given collaboration session may include only in room participants A N or only remote participants A N.

With regard to participants A N and A N it should be noted that users participating in a virtual collaboration session or the like may have different classifications. For example a participant may include a member of the session. A moderator may be an owner of the meeting workspace and leader that moderates the participants of the meeting. Often the moderator has full control of the session including material content what is displayed on the master workspace and the invited list of participants. Moreover an editor may include a meeting participant or the moderator who has write privileges to update content in the meeting workspace.

Interactive collaboration tool and participants A N and A N may include any end point device capable of audio or video capture and that has access to network . In various embodiments telecommunications network may include one or more wireless networks circuit switched networks packet switched networks or any combination thereof to enable communications between two or more of IHSs. For example network may include a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN one or more cellular networks e.g. third generation 3G fourth generation 4G or Long Term Evolution LTE wireless networks satellite networks computer or data networks e.g. wireless networks Wide Area Networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs Local Area Networks LANs Virtual Private Networks VPN the Internet etc. or the like.

As illustrated web browser or native application may be configured to communicate with application server or web services and vice versa via link using any suitable protocol such as for example Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or HTTP Secure HTTPS . Each module within client platform and application server or web services may be responsible to perform a specific operation or set of operations within the collaborative framework.

Particularly client platform may include user interface UI view models module configured to provide a lightweight flexible user interface that is portable across platforms and device types e.g. web browsers in personal computers tablets and phones using HyperText Markup Language HTML 5 Cascading Style Sheets CSS 3 and or JavaScript . Client controller module may be configured to route incoming and outgoing messages accordingly based on network requests or responses. Natural User Interface NUI framework module may be configured to operate various hardware sensors for touch multi point touch visual and audio provide the ability for voice commands and gesturing e.g. touch and 3D based . Context engine module may be configured to accept numerous inputs such as hardware sensor feeds and text derived from speech. In some instances context engine module may be configured to perform operations such as for example automatic participant identification automated meeting joining and collaboration via most effective manner location aware operations e.g. geofencing proximity detection or the like and associated management file detection delivery etc.

Client platform also includes security and manageability module configured to perform authentication and authorization operations and connectivity framework module configured to detect and connect with other devices e.g. peer to peer . Connected productivity module may be configured to provide a web service API WS API that allows clients and host to communicate and or invoke various actions or data querying commands. Unified Communication UCM module may be configured to broker audio and video communication including file transfers across devices and or through third party systems .

Within client platform hardware layer may include a plurality of gesture tracking e.g. touchscreen or camera audio and video capture e.g. camera microphone etc. and wireless communication devices or controllers e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Near Field Communications or the like . Operating system and system services layer may have access to hardware layer upon which modules rest. In some cases third party plug ins not shown may be communicatively coupled to virtual collaboration application and or modules via an Application Programming Interface API .

Server platform includes meeting management module configured to handle operations such as for example creating and managing meetings linking virtual workspace notifying participants of invitations and or providing configuration for auto calling push pull participants upon start of a meeting among others. Context aware service may be configured to provide services used by context engine of client platform . Calendaring module may be configured to unify participant and resource scheduling and to provide smart scheduling for automated search for available meeting times.

Moreover server platform also includes file management module configured to provide file storage transfer search and versioning. Location service module may be configured to perform location tracking both coarse and fine grained that relies on WiFi geo location Global Positioning System GPS and or other location technologies. Voice service module may be configured to perform automated speech recognition speech to text text to speech conversation and audio archival. Meeting metrics module may be configured to track various meeting metrics such as talk time topic duration and to provide analytics for management and or participants.

Still referring to server platform Natural Language Processing NLP service module may be configured to perform automatic meeting summation minutes conference resolution natural language understanding named entity recognition parsing and disambiguation of language. Data management module may be configured to provide distributed cache and data storage of application state and session in one or more databases. System configuration manageability module may provide the ability to configure one or more other modules within server platform . Search module may be configured to enable data search operations and UCM manager module may be configured to enable operations performed by UCM broker in conjunction with third party systems .

Security authentication authorization module may be configured to perform one or more security or authentication operations and message queue module may be configured to temporarily store one or more incoming and or outgoing messages. Within server platform operating system and system services layer may allow one or more modules to be executed.

In some embodiments server platform may be configured to interact with a number of other servers including but not limited to database management systems DBMSs file repositories search engines and real time communication systems. Moreover UCM broker and UCM manager may be configured to integrate and enhance third party systems and services e.g. Outlook Gmail Dropbox Box.net Google Cloud Amazon Web Services Salesforce Lync WebEx Live Meeting using a suitable protocol such as HTTP or Session Initiation Protocol SIP .

For purposes of this disclosure an IHS may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute calculate determine classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display communicate manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an IHS may be a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop tablet computer mobile device e.g. Personal Digital Assistant PDA or smart phone server e.g. blade server or rack server a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. An IHS may include Random Access Memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a Central Processing Unit CPU or hardware or software control logic Read Only Memory ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory.

Additional components of an IHS may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse touchscreen and or a video display. An IHS may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

CPU s are coupled to northbridge controller or chipset via front side bus . Northbridge controller may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between CPU s and other components. For example in this particular implementation northbridge controller is coupled to graphics device s e.g. one or more video cards or adaptors via graphics bus e.g. an Accelerated Graphics Port or AGP bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect or PCI bus or the like . Northbridge controller is also coupled to system memory via memory bus . Memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by CPU s . In various embodiments memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory.

Northbridge controller is coupled to southbridge controller or chipset via internal bus . Generally speaking southbridge controller may be configured to handle various of IHS s I O operations and it may provide interfaces such as for instance Universal Serial Bus USB audio serial parallel Ethernet or the like via port s pin s and or adapter s over bus . For example southbridge controller may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between IHS and other devices such as other IHSs attached to a network e.g. network . In various embodiments southbridge controller may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fiber Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Southbridge controller may also enable connection to one or more keyboards keypads touch screens scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or retrieving data. Multiple I O devices may be present in IHS . In some embodiments I O devices may be separate from IHS and may interact with IHS through a wired or wireless connection. As shown southbridge controller is further coupled to one or more PCI devices e.g. modems network cards sound cards or video cards and to one or more SCSI controllers via parallel bus . Southbridge controller is also coupled to Basic I O System BIOS and to Super I O Controller via Low Pin Count LPC bus .

BIOS includes non volatile memory having program instructions stored thereon. Those instructions may be usable CPU s to initialize and test other hardware components and or to load an Operating System OS onto IHS . Super I O Controller combines interfaces for a variety of lower bandwidth or low data rate devices. Those devices may include for example floppy disks parallel ports keyboard and mouse temperature sensor and fan speed monitoring control among others.

In some cases IHS may be configured to provide access to different types of computer accessible media separate from memory . Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include any tangible non transitory storage media or memory media such as electronic magnetic or optical media e.g. magnetic disk a hard drive a CD DVD ROM a Flash memory etc. coupled to IHS via northbridge controller and or southbridge controller .

The terms tangible and non transitory as used herein are intended to describe a computer readable storage medium or memory excluding propagating electromagnetic signals but are not intended to otherwise limit the type of physical computer readable storage device that is encompassed by the phrase computer readable medium or memory. For instance the terms non transitory computer readable medium or tangible memory are intended to encompass types of storage devices that do not necessarily store information permanently including for example RAM. Program instructions and data stored on a tangible computer accessible storage medium in non transitory form may afterwards be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link.

A person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that IHS is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure described herein. In particular any computer system and or device may include any combination of hardware or software capable of performing certain operations described herein. In addition the operations performed by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be performed by fewer components or distributed across additional components. Similarly in other embodiments the operations of some of the illustrated components may not be performed and or other additional operations may be available.

For example in some implementations northbridge controller may be combined with southbridge controller and or be at least partially incorporated into CPU s . In other implementations one or more of the devices or components shown in may be absent or one or more other components may be added. Accordingly systems and methods described herein may be implemented or executed with other IHS configurations.

In various embodiments the virtual collaboration architecture described above may be used to implement a number of systems and methods in the form of virtual collaboration application shown in . These systems and methods may be related to meeting management shared workspace e.g. folder sharing control remote desktop or application sharing digital whiteboard e.g. collaboration arbitration boundary or light curtain based input recognition and or personal engagement e.g. attention loss detection eye tracking etc. some of which are summarized below and explained in more detail in subsequent section s .

For example virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for managing public and private information in a collaboration session. Both public and private portions of a virtual collaboration workspace may be incorporated into the same window of a graphical user interface. Meeting project content in the public and private portions may include documents email discussion threads meeting minutes whiteboard drawings lists of participants and their status and calendar events. Tasks that may be performed using the workspace include but are not limited to editing of documents presentation of slides whiteboard drawing and instant messaging with remote participants.

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for real time moderation of content sharing to enable the dynamic moderating of participation in a shared workspace during a meeting. Combining a contact list alongside the shared workspace and folder system in one simplified and integrated User Interface UI puts all input and outputs in one window so users simply drag and drop content in session workspace tabs and people to and from each other to control access rights and share. Behavior rules dictating actions may be based on source and destination for drag and drop of content and user names. Actions may differ depending on whether destination is the real time workspace or file repository. Also these systems and methods provide aggregation of real time workspace whiteboard presentation area with file repository and meeting participant lists in one UI.

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for correlating stroke drawings to audio. Such systems and methods may be configured to correlate participants audio and drawing input by synchronization of event triggers on a given device s . As input is received drawing speech or both the data are correlated via time synchronization packaged together and persisted on a backend system which provides remote synchronous and asynchronous viewing and playback features for connected clients. The data streams result in a series of layered inputs that link together the correlated audio and visual sketches . This allows participants to revisit previous collaboration settings. Not only can a user playback the session in its entirety each drawing layer and corresponding audio can be reviewed non linearly.

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for live speech to text broadcast communication. Such systems and methods may be configured to employ Automatic Speech Recognition ASR technology combined with a client server model and in order to synchronize the converted speech s text transcript for real time viewing and later audio playback within a scrolling marquee e.g. news ticker . In conjunction with the converted speech s text the audio data of the speech itself is persisted on a backend system it may provide remote synchronous and asynchronous viewing and playback features for connected clients.

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for dynamic whiteboarding drawing area. In some cases a virtual border may be developed around the center of a user s cursor as soon as that user starts to draw in a shared whiteboard space. The border may simulate the physical space that the user would block in front of a traditional wall mounted whiteboard and is represented to all session participants as a color coded shaded area or outline for example. It provides dynamic virtual border for reserving drawing space with automatic inactivity time out and resolution with other borders as well as moderation control of a subset of total available area allowing border owner to invite others to draw in their temporary space and the ability to save subsets of a digital whiteboard for longer periods of time

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for coaching users on engagement in meetings and desk work. These systems and methods may be configured to measure a user s activity and to feedback relevant information regarding their current level of engagement. Sensors may detect activity including facial movements gestures spoken audio and or application use. Resulting data may be analyzed and ranked with priority scores to create statistics such as average speaking time and time spent looking away from screen. As such these systems and methods may be used to provide contextual feedback in a collaborative setting to monitor and to improve worker effectiveness ability to set goals for improvement over time such as increased presence in meetings and reduced time spent on low priority activities combined monitoring of device and environmental activity to adapt metrics reported based on user s context and ability for user to extend to general productivity improvement.

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for automated tracking of meeting behavior and optimization over time. Such systems and methods may act as a planning tool configured to leverage device sensors user calendars and or note taking applications to track user behavior in meetings and suggest optimizations over time to increase overall effectiveness. As such these systems and methods may leverage device proximity awareness to automatically track user attendance in scheduled meetings over time and or use ASR to determine participation levels and mood of meetings e.g. assess whether attendance is too high too low and general logistics .

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for managing meeting or meeting topic time limits in a distributed environment. A meeting host service may provide controlled timing and notification of meeting events through use of contextual information such as speaker identification key word tracking and or detection of meeting participants through proximity. Meeting host and individual participants may be notified of time remaining prior to exceeding time limits. Examples include but are not limited to time remaining for current topic and exceeding preset time to talk limit. In some cases these systems and methods may be configured to perform aggregation of contextual data with traditional calendar contact and agenda information to create unique meeting events such as identifying participants present at start and end of meeting e.g. through device proximity . Such systems and methods may also be configured to use of contextual data for dynamic management of meeting timing and flow in a distributed environment and to provide contextual based feedback mechanism to individuals such as exceeding preset time to talk.

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for enhanced trust relations based on peer to peer P2P direct communications. In many situations people whom have not met in person may be in communication with each other via email instant messages IMs and through social media. With the emerging P2P direct communications face to face communication may be used as an out of band peer authentication we have met . By attaching this attribute in a user s contact list when the user is contacted by other people whose contact information indicates that they have interacted face to face these systems and methods may provide the user a higher level of trust.

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for a gesture enhanced interactive whiteboard. Traditional digital whiteboard uses object size and motion to detect if a user intending to draw on the board or erase a section of the board. This feature can have unintended consequences such as interpreting pointing as drawing. To address this and other concerns these systems and methods may augment the traditional whiteboard drawing erase detection mechanism such as light curtain with gesture recognition system that can track the user s face orientation gaze and or wrist articulation to discern user intent.

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for hand raise gesture to indicate needing turn to speak. It has become very commonplace to have remote workers who participate in conference call meetings. One key pain point for remote workers is letting others know that they wish to speak especially if there are many participants engaged in active discussion in a meeting room with a handful or few remote workers on the conference call. Accordingly these systems and methods may interpret and raise gesture that is detected by a laptop web cam as automatically indicating to meeting participants that a remote worker needs or wants a turn to speak.

Additionally or alternatively virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for providing visual audio quality cues for conference calls. One key pain point anyone who has attended conference calls can attest to is poor audio quality on the conference bridge. More often than not this poor audio experience is due to background noise introduced by one or several of the participants. It is often the case that the specific person causing the bridge noise is at the same time not listening to even know they are causing disruption of the conference. Accordingly these systems and methods may provide a visual cue of audio quality of speaker e.g. loudness of speaker background noise latency green yellow red of Mean opinion score MOS automated identification of noise makers e.g. moderator view and private identification to speaker and or auto muting filtering of noise makers e.g. eating sounds keyboard typing dog barking baby screaming .

During a virtual collaboration session it can be cumbersome and confusing for a user to manage separation between content that is being shared publically with other meeting participants and content they want to keep private. When using a projector for example participants who want privacy must either disconnect the projector temporarily or leverage the extended monitor function. The latter is a cumbersome process that many do not take the time to learn or use on a regular basis and so they are left with the risk of privacy violation. When sharing online via a screen sharing application or the like a participant must maximize and minimize windows in order to toggle between the shared space and private content.

Desktop and application sharing common to Unified Communication UC platforms such as Lync WebEx and GoToMeeting manage privacy by sharing particular applications. In those environments typically one user broadcasts information to many users and everything in that space is public with any other information being rendered in other discrete windows. The moderator has control and the entire session needs to be switched over for another user to share their desktop or application. Content developed by an individual in private cannot be easily merged into a shared workspace session and those applications that support it require manual cutting and pasting.

To address these and other issues a virtual collaboration application may include systems and methods for managing public and private information in a collaboration session. In this context a virtual collaboration workspace is a content aggregation system that allows a participant and team to organize and share materials for a meeting or a project in a single window for a dashboard view. This technique enables users to perform common tasks without leaving the workspace. Meeting and or project materials can include but are not limited to documents email discussion threads meeting minutes whiteboard drawings lists of participants and their status calendar events etc. Tasks that may be performed from within the virtual collaboration application include but are not limited to editing of documents presentation of slides whiteboard drawing and or instant messaging with remote participants among others.

In that regard is screenshot of public and private portions of a virtual collaboration workspace rendered by a participant s device according to some embodiments. Particularly public portion and private portion are rendered concurrently in the same window of a graphical representation of virtual collaboration workspace. As shown portions and are displayed as part of meet tab of the virtual collaboration application upon selection of whiteboarding operations .

As shown public portion the top pane is a shared workspace linked to the project repository and private portion the bottom pane is a private workspace for a participant to vet ideas and preview content before sharing. The top pane is common to every participant s system and is also routed to the projector or host device. All users connected in a session have equal rights to see tabs of content in public portion both on their respective devices and any attached display such as a projector. Public portion may also include the team s shared repository . Shared repository may be configured as a document object store. Each participant has their own corresponding private portion to develop ideas and access personal content though their personal file ecosystem . Having this private space in the same window as the public space allows users to navigate content with assurance that it is not being broadcast to other participants.

A list or roster of participants may indicate to each given participant which other participants are currently attending the same session and have access to content placed in public portion and or public file system . In some embodiments participants listed in area are indicated as having access to the given participant s private portion and or private file system as discussed in more detail below.

Generally speaking the virtual collaboration workspace shown in may be unique and linked to a specific collaboration environment e.g. a meeting or project . These objects may be any type of binary data such as a document file e.g. Word PDF image audio file or text. The storage mechanism may provide data persistence with read and write access privileges in the form of an access control list. An implementation may include for example a Storage Area Network SAN a Network Attached Storage Device a distributed database or cache or the like. Other implementations may include external repositories such as SharePoint or a cloud service such as Box.net 

If the user is authorized he or she may opt to create a shared workspace at block for example by interacting with meeting management module of server platform . At block the user may enter workspace attributes such as workspace name description or the like. At block method may generate a unique identification for the workspace for example based on a hash of the provided attributes and or a timestamp. Then at block method may include creating a workspace directory or folder in persistent storage e.g. a third party system or other database .

In some cases block also includes allowing the user to upload or otherwise select content to be added to the shared workspace. Block determines whether creation of the workspace directory or folder is successful. If not then method displays an error message at block and the method ends at block . If the workspace directory or folder is successfully created however then at block method allows the user to select other participants to be added to the workspace. At block the user may then set the other participant s read write privileges in the form of an access control list. For example such an access control list may include a plurality of entries each entry associated with a particular user and or file and indicating whether the user has the ability to i read ii write or iii read and write to that specific file.

At block method includes allowing the user to change file ownership of the shared workspace for example by adding other participants. If the other participant has read privilege in block then the corresponding privilege is added for the user in the access control list at block . Additionally or alternatively if the other participant has write privilege in block then the corresponding privilege is added for the user in the access control list at block . At block the other participant may be notified of his or her addition to the workspace and the method may end at block .

In sum when a shared workspace is created and members are invited to the space a group is created with the organizer as the owner and invitees as participant members of the workspace. The owner may add and remove users from the workspace. The workspace maintains an access control list of each piece of content stored in the workspace. In some implementations when a user adds content to his or her corresponding private portion within the shared workspace it may limit the access only to the user s private group and the user who added the file is the only default member initially. If a user adds content to the public portion within the shared workspace it may allow access to all members of the workspace.

When a user drags a piece of content from the private space to the public space the access control list entry for that content may be changed to allow all members of the workspace access to it. When a user drags another person into a private space that person may be added to that user s private group and therefore that person may have access to all of the user s private content in the workspace. To display content e.g. to a projector or share the app to remote user the content must be in the public portion of the shared workspace.

Despite the wealth of available in meeting technology workflows for real time sharing of content within teams can be cumbersome. For example for traditional wired projectors users must manually swap the cable from one machine to the next merely to share content to the screen or users swap ideas with external memories or emailing large files to the current presenter. Wireless projectors with inputs and picture in picture capability but setup and moderator control are often not intuitive. Users must switch between different applications and windows in order to find information and select who to share it with both in session and after the meeting. Users also typically leverage completely different workflows for sharing during meetings and during desk work. This complexity creates issues when users must remember to distribute presentation materials after meetings.

To address these and other problems certain systems and methods described herein may enable the use of drag and drop point or touch gesturing to the ease of authorization access giving passing control and multi party editing through the use of simple gestures thus creating the ability to easily provide authorization access pass control during a live meeting setting and provide easy multi party editing of content without a myriad of confusing and time consuming operations.

For example in some cases dragging a tab of workspace content active in the session to another person in the meeting contact list gives that individual moderator control of that content in the session. Conversely dragging that same individual to the workspace tab adds them as an editor for simultaneous editing.

In other cases dragging a file to an individual sends that file to them while appropriately applying read access authorization control for that specific user to view the file s content. Dragging a file to a file folder uploads that file to the repository. The file may automatically inherit the authorization privileges defined by that existing parent folder. Dragging a file to the shared workspace automatically presents that content on all individuals workspaces and the projector if connected . Existing users participating in that shared workspace are automatically granted file read access for content viewing.

In that regard shows screenshot illustrating content sharing via drag n drop according to some embodiments. Particularly content may be shared by dragging it from file list into public portion . In some cases double clicking on a piece of content may maximize that window to full presentation mode.

If the user is authorized he or she may select a shared workspace to join at block for example by interacting with meeting management module of server platform . At block method may determine whether the user is authorized for write access for example by consulting an access control list associated with workspace content. If not then meeting management module allows the user to join the workspace as a participant in block and the method ends at block .

If the user has write access then method determines whether a moderator already exists for the shared workspace at block . If not meeting management module again allows the user to join the workspace as a participant in block and the method ends at block . Otherwise method includes prompting the user to select his or her role in the virtual collaboration session for example as a moderator or ordinary participant at block .

At block if the user selects to join the workspace as a participant meeting management module again allows the user to join the workspace as such in block and the method ends at block . Conversely if the user selects to join the workspace as a moderator method includes allowing the user to join as such and gives that user full control of the collaboration session at block after which the method ends a block .

Method begins at block . At block a moderator selects a participant from his or her contact list and at block the moderator drags and drops the user into the workspace. At block method determines whether the user has read access to the workspace. If not block creates a user read privilege on the workspace s access control list. At block method determines whether the moderator would like to transfer control to the user. If not the user joins the workspace as a participant at block and the method ends a block . Otherwise block determines whether the user has write access to the workspace. If not block creates a user write privilege on the workspace s access control list.

At block method determines whether the user has moderator role. If so then the user joins the session as moderator with full control at block and the method ends at block . If not then block removes moderator control from the existing moderator at block . If method determines that the operation s of block were successful at block block adds moderator control to the selected user. If method determines that the operation s of block were successful at block then the user joins the session as moderator with full control at block and the method ends at block . Conversely if either blocks or determines a failure block displays an error message and method ends at block .

In sum combining a contact list alongside the shared workspace and folder system in one simplified and integrated user interface puts all input and outputs in one window so users simply drag and drop content in session workspace tabs and people to and from each other to control access rights and share. The drag and drop motion makes it touch friendly for tablets and interactive projectors. Behavior rules may dictate what is being dragged where it is dropped and the appropriate authorization privileges read write to apply for sharing content across users or participants. As such the systems and methods described above enable dynamic moderation control of in session content in contrast to asynchronous files sharing.

Adoption of whiteboarding in virtual collaboration sessions has been limited for a number of reasons. First a user s interactions with a virtual whiteboard appear unnatural when compared to being co located in a room and physically drawing on a board with pen in hand. In many cases co located meeting participants tend to choose traditional methods of communication and remote meeting participants are left out of whiteboard sessions.

Another problem with a virtual whiteboard involves managing ownership of multiple users drawing areas. With a traditional wall mounted whiteboard in a conference room the person drawing on the board physically blocks others out from drawing in the same space at the same time. In a virtual whiteboard however multiple users are often able to draw over each other s ideas. In an attempt to circumvent this problem the virtual collaboration workspace may be configured to lock access to the virtual whiteboard to a single user at a time but that results in the lack of simultaneous collaboration from other participants.

To address these and other concerns certain systems and methods described herein may include a whiteboarding application such that so long as an initiating user is drawing within their reserved space other users cannot draw within it. An outlined area may acts as a padded buffer preventing other participants from invading the space and simultaneously drawing over the user. To illustrate the foregoing is a diagram of a protected area for a virtual whiteboard according to some embodiments. As shown user touches an initial point with a pen finger mouse trackpad or the like of whiteboarding area thus creating protected area having padding buffer .

Again protected area may be such that other users are not allowed to draw within its boundaries. Area may have a square or rectangular shape although any other suitable shape e.g. circular may be used.

In some cases area may have a fixed size that remains fixed around the initial touch down spot for the drawing cursor. In that situation the user may be capable of drawing outside of area and into area as they would by reaching across a physical whiteboard but the strokes outside of reserved space are not protected and can be simultaneously drawn over by others. In other cases area may have a size adjustable by the user for example by manipulating its boundaries to reserve more or less space than initially allocated. In yet other cases depending upon the size of a predetermined number of strokes area may be automatically increased or decreased in the absence of user intervention.

In some embodiments different users may reserve their own respective areas on the shared whiteboard to simultaneously sketch out their ideas. Users may then be allowed to draw within the same virtual whiteboard s canvas without interfering with other participants drawings. When the owner of a given area stops drawing the border around that area may time out and disappear so others can then add their ideas to the content within the same previously blocked outlined area.

If the initiator of a given drawing area wishes for another user to be able to draw simultaneously in their reserved space the initiator may drag the other user s name from the meeting participant list and into that given area. Similarly the owner of a reserved drawing space may drag the space to another user to pass ownership of that space. In some cases if a new user starts sketching immediately outside of another user s reserved space the conflict between drawing areas may be resolved for example by biasing the new user s border away from the established one rather than centering it on the new participant s cursor.

At block method adds a padded buffer outline around the initial touch point and at block method computes the user s drawing area. At block method determines whether the area overlaps with any existing outlines from other reserved areas . If so block may redefine the user s drawing area for example by shifting the area in the opposite direction as the overlap by a predetermined number of points or pixels. Otherwise at block the outlined area is stored in system memory and denoted as an existing or in use area associated with that user.

At block method includes allowing the user to draw. At block if the user is still drawing control returns to block . Otherwise at block method initiates a countdown time. Upon expiration of the timer block fades out the outline of the user s reserved area and releases that whiteboarding area to other users. In some cases the method may be repeated during the same whiteboarding session by passing control from block back to block .

In some embodiments a user may disable the time out feature and may reserve their area in the shared virtual workspace for a longer period of time. An example usage model would be to lock an area continuously in a shared whiteboard that is used by a team over the course of multiple meetings which is the digital equivalent of the Do Not Erase note commonly seen on physical meeting room whiteboards.

It should be understood that various operations described herein may be implemented in software executed by logic or processing circuitry hardware or a combination thereof. The order in which each operation of a given method is performed may be changed and various operations may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. It is intended that the invention s described herein embrace all such modifications and changes and accordingly the above description should be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although the invention s is are described herein with reference to specific embodiments various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention s as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention s . Any benefits advantages or solutions to problems that are described herein with regard to specific embodiments are not intended to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or element of any or all the claims.

Unless stated otherwise terms such as first and second are used to arbitrarily distinguish between the elements such terms describe. Thus these terms are not necessarily intended to indicate temporal or other prioritization of such elements. The terms coupled or operably coupled are defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically. The terms a and an are defined as one or more unless stated otherwise. The terms comprise and any form of comprise such as comprises and comprising have and any form of have such as has and having include and any form of include such as includes and including and contain and any form of contain such as contains and containing are open ended linking verbs. As a result a system device or apparatus that comprises has includes or contains one or more elements possesses those one or more elements but is not limited to possessing only those one or more elements. Similarly a method or process that comprises has includes or contains one or more operations possesses those one or more operations but is not limited to possessing only those one or more operations.

