---

title: Method and apparatus for monitoring for a restriction in a stage II fuel vapor recovery system
abstract: Systems and methods for detecting a failure in a Stage II fuel vapor recovery system are disclosed. An exemplary failure is a restriction in the vapor recovery system. In one detection system dispensing points may be flagged if it is determined that there has been a series of detected A/L ratios at the respective dispensing point below a first threshold. Further, an estimated ORVR penetration percentage may be determined for each dispensing point. In a second detection system an average A/L ratio for each dispensing point may be determined. The average A/L ratio may be an approximation of the average A/L ratio for non-ORVR transactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09108837&OS=09108837&RS=09108837
owner: Franklin Fueling Systems, Inc.
number: 09108837
owner_city: Madison
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130416
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 413 099 filed Mar. 6 2012 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 473 623 filed May 28 2009 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MONITORING FOR A RESTRICTION IN A STAGE II FUEL VAPOR RECOVERY SYSTEM and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 056 522 filed May 28 2008 the entire disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This application is related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 056 528 filed May 28 2008 the entire disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This invention relates to a method and apparatus for monitoring a Stage II fuel vapor recovery system to detect a partial or complete blockage in the system.

Historically as fuel was being dispensed into a vehicle s fuel tank typically from an underground storage tank UST vapor in the vehicle s fuel tank would escape into the atmosphere. In order to prevent this Stage II vapor recovery systems were developed to collect this vapor and return it to the UST.

Stage II vapor recovery systems recover fuel vapor released from a vehicle s fuel tank as fuel is being dispensed into the vehicle s fuel tank. As is known Stage II vapor recovery systems may be a balance type system or a vacuum assist type system. Stage II vapor recovery systems typically are only installed in urban areas where the escaping fuel vapors can pose a greater threat to the environment.

In a further effort to prevent fuel vapors from escaping into the atmosphere in areas where Stage II vapor recovery systems are not prevalent automobiles and subsequently light vehicle trucks sold in the United States have been required to include an on board refueling vapor recovery ORVR system which is a vehicle emission control system that captures fuel vapors from the vehicle s gas tank during refueling. No fuel vapors escape from the fuel tanks of such ORVR equipped vehicles.

It is desirable to detect whether there is a partial or complete blockage in the vapor return path of a Stage II vapor recovery system. However it can be difficult to distinguish a blocked or otherwise restricted vapor return path from that of refueling an ORVR equipped vehicle.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a system for detecting a restriction in a stage II fuel vapor recovery system is provided. In another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a method for detecting a restriction in a stage II fuel vapor recovery system is provided. In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a computer readable medium is provided including instructions which when executed by a controller are used to detect a restriction in a stage II fuel vapor recovery system.

In another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a method for monitoring for a restriction in the vapor recovery system for a fuel dispensing system which dispenses fuel from a plurality of dispensing nozzles into ORVR and non ORVR equipped vehicles is provided. The method comprising determining over a period of time for each dispensing nozzle an ORVR penetration ratio of A L ratios below a first threshold versus A L ratios above the first threshold flagging one of the dispensing nozzles if it is determined that there has been a series of detected A L ratios at the one dispensing nozzle below the first threshold upon completion of the period of time determining an average of the ORVR penetration ratios of the non flagged dispensing nozzles determining an acceptable ORVR penetration ratio as a function of the determined average ORVR penetration ratio comparing the ORVR penetration ratio of each of the flagged dispensing nozzles to the acceptable ORVR penetration ratio and providing an indication for a given flagged dispensing nozzle if the penetration ratio for the flagged dispensing nozzle is greater than the acceptable ORVR penetration ratio. In one example the period of time is one day. In another example the period of time is one week. In a further example the indication is an alarm. In still another example the function of the average penetration ratio is equal to 1 average penetration ratio x average penetration ratio wherein x a number greater than 1. In one variation x 2. In yet another example the method is performed by a controller.

In still another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a system for monitoring for a restriction in the vapor recovery system for a fuel dispensing system which dispenses fuel from a plurality of dispensing nozzles into ORVR and non ORVR equipped vehicles is provided. The system comprising a controller. The controller determines over a period of time for each dispensing nozzle an ORVR penetration ratio of A L ratios below a first threshold versus A L ratios above the first threshold flags one of the dispensing nozzles if it is determined that there has been a series of detected A L ratios at the one dispensing nozzle below the first threshold upon completion of the period of time determines an average of the ORVR penetration ratios of the non flagged dispensing nozzles determines an acceptable ORVR penetration ratio as a function of the determined average ORVR penetration ratio compares the ORVR penetration ratio of the flagged dispensing nozzles to the acceptable ORVR penetration ratio and provides an indication for a given flagged dispensing nozzle if the penetration ratio for the flagged dispensing nozzle is less than the acceptable penetration ratio. In one example the period of time is one day. In another example the period of time is one week. In a further example the indication is an alarm. In still another example the function of the average penetration ratio is equal to 1 average penetration ratio x average penetration ratio wherein x a number greater than 1. In one variation x 2.

In another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a method for monitoring for a restriction in the vapor recovery system for a fuel dispensing system which dispenses fuel from a plurality of dispensing nozzles into ORVR and non ORVR equipped vehicles is provided. The method comprising for each fueling transaction determining over a period of time an average of the A L ratio for each fueling transaction either below a lower threshold or above an upper threshold the upper threshold being greater than the lower threshold determining whether a number of sequential fueling transactions having A L ratios falling between the lower and upper thresholds exceed a threshold number including fueling transactions having A L ratios falling between the lower and upper thresholds in the average of the A L ratios if the number of sequential fueling transactions having A L ratios falling between the upper and lower thresholds exceed the threshold number such inclusion to continue until a fueling transaction having an A L ratio below the lower threshold or above the upper threshold is determined comparing the determined average of the A L ratios to a first lower test threshold and to a first upper test threshold and providing an indication if the determined average of the A L ratios is below the first lower test threshold or above the first upper test threshold. In one example the threshold number of sequential fueling transactions having A L ratios falling between the upper and lower thresholds is eleven. In another example the period of time is a day. In a further example the method further comprises determining a weekly ORVR average as an average of seven consecutive daily averages comparing the determined average of the A L ratios to a second lower test threshold and to a second upper test threshold and providing an indication if the determined average of the A L ratios is below the second lower test threshold or above the second upper test threshold.

In still another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a system for monitoring for a restriction in the vapor recovery system for a fuel dispensing system which dispenses fuel from a plurality of dispensing nozzles into ORVR and non ORVR equipped vehicles is provided. The system comprising a controller. The controller for each fueling transaction determines over a period of time an average of the A L ratio for each fueling transaction either below a lower threshold or above an upper threshold the upper threshold being greater than the lower threshold determines whether a number of sequential fueling transactions having A L ratios falling between the lower and upper thresholds exceed a threshold number includes fueling transactions having A L ratios falling between the lower and upper thresholds in the average of the A L ratios if the number of sequential fueling transactions having A L ratios falling between the upper and lower thresholds exceed the threshold number such inclusion to continue until a fueling transaction having an A L ratio below the lower threshold or above the upper threshold is determined compares the determined average of the A L ratios to a first lower test threshold and to a first upper test threshold and provides an indication if the determined average of the A L ratios is below the first lower test threshold or above the first upper test threshold. In one example the threshold number of sequential fueling transactions having A L ratios falling between the upper and lower thresholds is eleven. In another example the period of time is a day. In a further example the controller determines a weekly ORVR average as an average of seven consecutive daily averages compares the determined average of the A L ratios to a second lower test threshold and to a second upper test threshold and provides an indication if the determined average of the A L ratios is below the second lower test threshold or above the second upper test threshold.

While this invention is susceptible of embodiments in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail preferred embodiments of the invention with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the broad aspects of the invention to the embodiments illustrated.

A fuel dispensing system such as one for use at a conventional retail gasoline station is illustrated in . The fuel dispensing system includes multiple fuel dispensers only one illustrated each having two dispensing points i.e. two assemblies each comprising a conventional hose and a nozzle for dispensing fuel from a UST . The nozzle may be a Healy 900 Series EVR ORVR nozzle sold by Franklin Fueling Systems Inc. of Madison Wis. UST is filled with fuel through a fuel pipe which introduces the fuel into a lower portion of UST through pipe end . The UST includes a conventional fuel level sensor to measure the level of fuel in the UST .

The fuel dispensing system also includes a fuel delivery system for transferring fuel from the UST to each of the dispensing points . The fuel delivery system typically includes a fuel supply line to provide a common conduit for fuel delivery from the UST to a branch fuel line associated with a respective one of each of the dispensers . A pump is provided in UST to pump fuel through a fuel supply line to dispensers . Each of the branch fuel lines then splits into two fuel delivery lines to provide fuel to each of the dispensing points of a particular one of the dispensers . Each of the fuel delivery lines includes a fuel flow sensor . Each of the fuel flow sensors generates an electrical signal indicative of the quantity of fuel flowing through the sensor and thus dispensed into a vehicle not shown . In one embodiment sensors are volume sensors. The signals from the fuel flow sensors are communicated to a microprocessor based controller such as Franklin Electric Co. Inc. s TS 5 automatic tank gauge which runs software in a conventional manner. The controller and associated conventional memory are typically located in a station house.

The fuel dispensing system also includes a Stage II vapor recovery system . The vapor recovery system may be either a balance type system or a vacuum assist type system.

Similar to the fuel delivery system the vapor recovery system includes a common vapor return line to provide a common vapor return conduit to return fuel vapor from each of the dispensing points to the UST . Each of the dispensing points has an associated dispensing point vapor return line . The two dispensing point vapor return lines for each of the dispensing points associated with a respective one of the dispensers connect to a dispenser vapor return line . Each of the dispenser vapor return lines connects with the common vapor return line .

A return flow sensor is placed in line with each of the dispenser vapor return lines i.e. a single return flow sensor is associated with each of the dispensers . The return flow sensors generate electrical signals indicative of the magnitude of vapor return flow through their associated dispenser vapor line towards the UST . In one embodiment sensor is a volume sensor. These electrical signals from the return flow sensors are also electrically transmitted to the controller . In one embodiment each dispenser includes pump electronics which monitor the condition active or idle of each of the dispensing points sensors and and the customer display outputs of the dispenser .

As discussed above vehicles on the road today are either on board refueling vapor recovery ORVR equipped or not. In a vehicle that is not ORVR equipped as fuel is dispensed into the vehicle s fuel tank a non ORVR transaction fuel vapor from the vehicle s fuel tank is displaced by the dispensed fuel and is returned to the UST via the vapor recovery system.

In an ORVR equipped vehicle fuel vapor is prevented from escaping from the vehicle s fuel tank into the atmosphere. Thus as fuel is dispensed into the ORVR equipped vehicle s fuel tank an ORVR transaction there is no fuel vapor returned to the UST .

 A L air liquid is a ratio of the volume of vapor returned to the UST from a particular dispensing point divided by the quantity of fuel dispensed from that dispensing point . The present system includes in station diagnostics ISD to monitor the A L values of the dispensing points to monitor either for either a total or partial restriction in the vapor return path a restricted condition . For this the ISD utilizes the return flow sensors in each of the dispenser vapor return lines and the fuel flow sensors in each of the fuel delivery lines . As discussed above the controller receives a signal from each of the return flow sensors and each of the fuel flow sensors . Because each return flow sensor is in line with two dispensing points the controller ignores a return flow signal if both dispensing points associated with the common return flow sensor are active.

One difficulty of detecting a restricted condition is that the A L ratio in the event of a restricted condition may not be significantly different than the A L ratio when refueling an ORVR equipped vehicle. The present invention contemplates two detection systems for distinguishing between a restricted condition and the refueling of an ORVR equipped vehicle. The first detection system is particularly adapted for use in conjunction with a balance type vapor recovery system and the second detection system is particularly adapted for use in conjunction with an assist type vapor recovery system. However this does not mean that either detection system can only be used in conjunction with either a balance type vapor recovery system or an assist type vapor recovery system.

Referring to the controller conducts the following test represented by block to detect a restricted condition. Specifically the controller determines an estimated ORVR penetration percentage number of ORVR transactions divided by the total number of transactions for each dispensing point as represented by block . For purposes of this determination the controller calculates the ORVR penetration percentage for each dispensing point by logging in memory for each dispensing point transactions having A L ratios greater than a first threshold such as greater than or equal to 0.50 as non ORVR transactions and logging in memory for each dispensing point transactions having A L ratios less the first threshold such as less than 0.50 as ORVR transactions as represented by block .

If the controller detects a pre set number such as six of consecutive ORVR transactions as represented by block a statistically an unlikely number of ORVR equipped vehicles to be consecutively refueled from the same dispensing point the controller electronically flags the dispensing point as represented by block . Once a dispensing point is flagged it remains flagged for the balance of the test period typically a day.

At the end of each test period as represented by block the controller calculates a collective ORVR penetration percentage of the ORVR penetration percentages of all of the non flagged dispensing points as represented by block . In one embodiment the collective ORVR penetration percentage is determined by summing the ORVR penetration percentage for each non flagged dispensing point and dividing by the total number of non flagged dispensing points . The controller then compares the ORVR penetration percentage of each flagged dispensing point to a minimum ORVR penetration percentage required to fail as represented by block . The controller calculates the minimum ORVR penetration percentage required to fail as a function of the ORVR penetration percentage according to the following formula 1 ORVR 2 ORVR 

It should be noted that other formulas could be used. For example x could be number greater than 1 but other than 2.

In order for a particular flagged dispensing point to fail the controller must determine the ORVR penetration percentage of the particular flagged dispensing point ORVR is greater than 1 the collective ORVR penetration percentage of the non flagged dispensing points divided by two 1 ORVR 2 plus the collective ORVR penetration percentage of the non flagged dispensing points ORVR 

The table below illustrates the minimum ORVR penetration percentage required for the controller to fail a flagged dispensing point Col. C based upon various collective ORVR penetration percentages of the non flagged dispensing points Col. A .

According to the above table if the collective ORVR penetration percentage is 90 or greater the controller will fail any flagged dispensing point. Alternatively the controller could continue to perform the above calculation for these values.

In the event that no dispensing point is flagged no comparisons are made and the controller does not fail any of the dispensing points regardless of the ORVR penetration percentage of any of the dispensing points.

In the event all of the dispensing points are flagged as represented by block then the controller compares the ORVR penetration percentage of each dispensing point to a preset penetration percentage as represented by block . The preset penetration percentage is based upon an estimate by the California Air Resources Board of the ORVR penetration percentage and is as follows for the years 2008 2020 

In such a case if the controller determines the ORVR penetration percentage of any of the dispensing points is greater than the estimated ORVR penetration percentage for the given year the controller fails that dispensing point .

In the event the controller fails one or more dispensing points the controller notifies the proper entity such as the manager of the gasoline station. In one embodiment an alarm is provided in the central location which includes controller such as the station house. The alarm may be one or more of audio visual and tactile. In one embodiment there is an audio alarm and a visible light. In one embodiment the failed dispensing point is shut down until the alarm condition is cleared. In one embodiment the alarm condition may be communicated to proper entity over a network. Examples include an e mail message a fax message a voice message a text message an instant message or any other type of messaging communication.

Referring to according to the second detection system the controller determines a daily average A L for each dispensing point as represented by block . This daily average is an approximation of the average A L for non ORVR transactions over the course of a day. The controller also determines a weekly average A L which is simply an average of the daily average A L s over the course of a week. For purposes of this approximation A L ratios greater than 0.50 are presumed to be legitimate non ORVR transactions and A L ratios less than 0.15 are presumed to be a result of a restricted condition. This A L range of 0.15 0.5 will be referred to as the ORVR Range The classification of transactions is represented by block . A L ratios within the ORVR Range are presumed to be legitimate ORVR transactions.

To determine the daily and weekly average for each dispensing point the controller calculates a running average of all A L transactions outside of the ORVR Range as well as certain A L transactions within the ORVR Range.

Specifically initially in calculating the running average the controller ignores all transactions within the ORVR Range as represented by block assuming them to be ORVR transactions. However if the controller detects a preset number such as eleven consecutive A L transactions within the ORVR Range as represented by block the controller begins including subsequent consecutive transactions within the ORVR Range in calculating the running average as represented by block until such time as the controller detects another A L transaction outside of the ORVR Range i.e. either greater than 0.50 or less than 0.15. Upon detection of a subsequent A L transaction outside of the ORVR Range the controller subsequently only includes A L transactions outside of the ORVR Range in calculating the running average as generally represented by block until such time as the controller detects another series of eleven A L transactions within the ORVR Range at which time the above is repeated.

At the end of the day as generally represented by block the controller compares the daily average of each of the dispensing points with a threshold A L value as generally represented by block .

The Healy 900 Series nozzle has been certified by CARB to provide an A L ratio between 0.95 and 1.15 when fueling non ORVR equipped vehicles. CARB has also established minimum requirements for monitoring for a Gross Failure condition and for monitoring for a Degradation condition.

Monitoring for a gross failure condition is performed on a daily basis utilizing the daily average. CARB CP 201 establishes a lower threshold value of the daily average at 75 below the lower certified A L ratio i.e. 75 below 0.95 for a Healy 900 Series nozzle and establishes an upper threshold value of the daily average at 75 above the higher certified A L ratio i.e. 75 above 1.15 for a Healy Series nozzle . For the present system utilizing a Healy 900 Series nozzle this calculates to be 0.24 25 of 0.95 and 2.0 175 of 1.15 respectively. According to CARB if the daily average is below the lower threshold value or above the upper threshold value for two consecutive assessment periods typically one day each an alarm must be sounded and dispensing from the respective dispensing pump must be ceased.

The controller of the present system utilizes a more stringent standard. Specifically the controller utilizes a lower threshold value of 0.33 65 below 0.95 for the Healy 900 Series nozzle and an upper threshold value of 1.90 65 above 1.15 for the Healy 900 Series nozzle and only over a single day.

If the controller determines that the daily average A L for a given nozzle is below 0.33 or above 1.90 the controller triggers an alarm indicating a Gross Failure condition. In one embodiment an alarm is provided in the central location which includes controller such as the station house. The alarm may be one or more of audio visual and tactile. In one embodiment there is an audio alarm and a visible light. In one embodiment the alarm condition may be communicated to proper entity over a network. Examples include an e mail message a fax message a voice message a text message an instant message or any other type of messaging communication. The controller may also perform such other steps which are deemed necessary such as shutting down the failed dispensing point until the alarm condition is cleared.

When monitoring for a Degradation Condition the controller determines a running weekly average A L. The weekly average A L is determined as is the daily average A L discussed above just over a seven day period typically from early Sunday morning until late the following Saturday night. In one embodiment the weekly average A L is determined by using the techniques discussed herein for determining the daily average A L except that the time period is for a week not a day.

For monitoring for a Degradation Condition CARB has established a lower threshold value of the weekly average A L at least 25 below the lower certified A L ratio i.e. 25 below 0.95 for the Healy 900 Series nozzle and an upper threshold value of the weekly average A L at least 25 above the higher certified A L ratio i.e. 25 above 1.15 for the Healy 900 Series nozzle . For the present system with the Healy 900 Series nozzle this calculates to be 0.71 75 of 0.95 and 1.44 125 of 1.15 respectively.

If the weekly average for any of the dispensing points is below this lower weekly threshold value or above this upper weekly threshold value CARB requires a degradation condition be determined.

The controller also uses more stringent weekly threshold values for determining a Degradation Condition. Specifically the controller utilizes a lower weekly threshold value of 0.81 15 below 0.95 for the Healy 900 Series nozzle and an upper weekly threshold value of 1.32 15 above 1.15 for the Healy 900 Series nozzle .

If the controller determines that the weekly average A L for a given nozzle is below 0.81 or above 1.32 the controller triggers an alarm indicating a Degradation Condition. In one embodiment an alarm is provided in the central location which includes controller such as the station house. The alarm may be one or more of audio visual and tactile. In one embodiment there is an audio alarm and a visible light. In one embodiment the alarm condition may be communicated to proper entity over a network. Examples include an e mail message a fax message a voice message a text message an instant message or any other type of messaging communication. The controller may also perform such other steps which are deemed necessary such as shutting down the failed dispensing point until the alarm condition is cleared.

From the foregoing it will be observed that numerous variations and modifications may be affected without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is to be understood that no limitation with respect to the specific apparatus illustrated herein is intended or should be inferred.

