---

title: Multi-functions axis-based interface
abstract: A method, device, interface and systems thereof is hereby presented to facilitate interactions between sets of attributes and workflow steps with corresponding graphical arrangements of associated documents. Interactions are generally facilitated through an interaction tool having input and output capabilities. Documents can be classified by associating documents with an interaction element from the interaction tool. Conversely, selecting an interaction element is used as a basis to display documents corresponding to the attributes associated with the selected interaction element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646080&OS=09646080&RS=09646080
owner: 9224-5489 QUEBEC INC.
number: 09646080
owner_city: Montreal
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present application is a nonprovisional of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 658 619 filed Jun. 11 2012 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING USING ND SHARING DATA ON AXES which is incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Any publication of and any patent issuing from the foregoing U.S. patent applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Furthermore the disclosure of the priority provisional application is contained in the Appendix hereto which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates generally to computer systems adapted to manage information elements disposed on arrays and axes thereof in conjunction with another data representation element. The present invention more specifically relates to methods and apparatuses for displaying organizing and navigating among information elements disposed in arrays and axes thereof in conjunction with a means to access and use the arrays and axes.

Projects are generating documents and these documents should be managed in the most efficient way possible. Ordering and classifying documents in a classification structure takes significant time and can be complex. A likelihood of confusion remains present as how the classification structure is going to be interpreted by each person classifying the documents. Despite the improvement of computers having sensitive documents ordered in a comprehensive fashion remains a challenge.

Projects have a significant number of documents associated therewith. A project can be divided into different phases or the like. Some projects can follow a precise workflow further detailing steps of the project. For instance a workflow can include various interactions of phases events tasks notes bring forward BF among others. This more detailed type of project document management increases the level of complexity for a user.

Graphical user interfaces GUIs are becoming more and more graphically rich in displaying documents icons and other information elements. Today s lists of documents are turning progressively into highly graphical sequences of documents from which users can attain greater meaning and purpose than before. This is due primarily to the fact that modern GUIs display graphically complex thumbnails icons and file previews large number of documents and highly customized ordering of sequences in which the objects displayed are presented.

A sequence of documents may be presented in arrays of various forms such as an axis a group of axes or a matrix. In a related fashion an axis or an array can contain documents that display various degrees of relevance to a user based on the attributes associated with each document or group thereof. Documents in general can be unevenly distributed in an array in dependence of the manner in which they are initially organized in the respective array. Finding the documents from an array that are deemed relevant by the user may therefore be difficult or even confusing when few or no relevant documents appear in the display area.

It is therefore desirable to provide proper indications and means adapted for the navigation of an array of documents in relation with a predetermined classification structure or workflow process over the existing art. It is also desirable to indicate to a user which part of an array relates to which portion of a classification structure or workflow. It is equally desirable to display an array an axis or a portion thereof in graphical relationship a specific classification structure or with respective steps of a workflow.

It is also desirable to provide indications and means for efficiently navigating an axis row or column of an array of documents in relationship with steps of a workflow. It is also desirable to provide an improved method for simultaneously navigating steps of a workflow process or workflow entries and documents corresponding to respective steps of the workflow process.

It is yet also desirable to provide a method and system adapted to find and navigate documents deemed relevant to a portion of a workflow by a user when such documents are located on an axis row or column of a display.

It is desirable to provide a means to simply categorize documents and retrieve categorized documents with a unified interaction element.

It is also desirable to categorize documents by an interaction between documents with a categorization element representing a preformatted categorization where the documents are going to acquire the categorization of the categorization element.

Other deficiencies will become apparent to one skilled in the art to which the invention pertains in view of the following summary and detailed description with its appended figures.

One aspect of the present invention is to alleviate one or more of the shortcomings of the background art by addressing one or more of the existing needs in the art.

The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

At least a portion of the invention is generally described as a method a system a device and or a graphical user interface used to represent multiple computer files documents or other data on axes in an axis based graphical user interface GUI .

Aspects of our work provide a method and system allowing a user to efficiently navigate arrays of documents or a portion thereof in conjunction with a predetermined workflow.

At least one aspect of our work and according to at least one embodiment thereof an interaction element is used to classify documents and retrieve classified documents in simple fashion. The interaction element can be embodied as a status bar menu bar identification of parts of a workflow process docket entries steps of a workflow process and the like. The interaction element can be used for locating an axis therefrom extending therefrom and providing information regarding the nature of the displayed documents along an axis.

One aspect of the instant invention provides and according to at least one embodiment thereof a method an apparatus and a graphical user interface adapted to present arrays of documents as a single axis row or column or a plurality thereof associated with a particular step of a workflow.

Moreover one other aspect of the instant invention and according to at least one embodiment thereof provides a method an apparatus and a graphical user interface adapted to present arrays of documents of various degrees of relevance to steps of a workflow.

An aspect of the instant invention according to at least one embodiment thereof provides a method an apparatus and a graphical user interface adapted to display a series of steps of a workflow and wherein steps can be spaced apart to insert an axis of documents relevant to the an adjacent step of the workflow to identify which documents are related to the adjacent step.

An aspect of the instant invention according to at least one embodiment thereof provides a method an apparatus and a graphical user interface adapted to display a series of steps of a workflow in a first direction and wherein steps can be spaced apart to orthogonally insert an axis of documents relevant to the an adjacent step of the workflow to identify which documents are related to the adjacent step.

In one aspect of the instant invention according to at least one embodiment thereof documents of many steps of a workflow are displayed along an axis of document and documents thereof relevant to a specific step of the workflow are visually discriminated from documents relevant to other steps of the workflow.

Another aspect of the present invention according to at least one embodiment thereof provides a mechanism adapted to display documents associated with a workflow on the axis row or column that is parallelly or perpendicularly displayed in respect with an axis representing a series of steps in a workflow.

Another aspect of the present invention according to at least one embodiment thereof provides a mechanism adapted to allow further discrimination among documents related to a particular step of a workflow discrimination being made for instance on a basis of attributes and being graphically reflected through for example the application of visually distinctive features applied to documents or dividing of relevant documents among more than one axis related to a specific step of a workflow process.

A further aspect of the instant invention according to at least one embodiment thereof provides a mechanism adapted to locate documents related to a workflow in relation with a collation function a preferred but not restrictive collation function being a chronological ordering.

In another aspect of the instant invention according to at least one embodiment thereof a feature is provided for systematically associating documents relevant to each docket entry of a legal matter.

In one other aspect of the present invention according to at least one embodiment thereof a mechanism is provided adapted to move the axis of documents directly to a document thereon relevant to a specific step of a workflow when the step of a workflow if selected.

In yet another aspect of the instant invention according to at least one embodiment thereof a method is provided for indicating to a user the presence the number and location of documents deemed relevant in a step of a workflow when the documents contained in an array of documents bear a plurality of attributes possibly designating a plurality of steps of a workflow.

In one other aspect of the invention according to at least one embodiment thereof a mechanism is provided to enable filtered navigational capability to documents associated with a workflow at specific and predetermined positions within an array of documents according to a query specifying a portion of the workflow for relevance.

In another aspect of the invention according to at least one embodiment thereof a mechanism is provided to enable direct navigation of an axis row column or group of axes to associated steps of a workflow.

In one aspect of the instant invention according to at least one embodiment thereof a mechanism is provided for changing axes of documents relevant to distinct steps of a workflow upon selection of a step. Graphical identifications of steps can be spaced apart to allow display of the relevant axis.

In one other aspect of the instant invention according to at least one embodiment thereof a mechanism is provided to reach and display documents relevant to a specific step of a workflow that are located at a specific and predetermined location of an axis row or column that might not be readily visible.

Embodiments of the subject invention can be embodied as a computer system a method an operating system and a graphical user interface adapted to manage data and documents by juxtaposing the data on axes of documents in a manner such that data documents and axes thereof are parametrizable and usable by a plurality of users and can be displayed according to a selection of a step of a workflow metadata or attributes as deemed relevant by user or users in a single user or networked environment.

Another aspect of our work provides according to at least one embodiment thereof an object oriented computing system. The computing system comprises a processor a memory coupled to the processor and an interface. The computer system comprises a computer readable storage medium storing instructions such as a software program adapted to carry out the embodiments. The instructions that when executed provide a processor based system the steps to modify the type and quantity of information used to build and display a document axis group of axes and or workspace on a variety of devices including but not limited to computers mobiles phones or tablets.

In another aspect of our work a graphical user interface is provided. The graphical user interface displays one or more axes of documents in accordance with the implementation of a method that manages documents and the data associated therewith.

Embodiments of the present invention can have at least one of the above mentioned objects and or aspects but does not necessarily have all of them. It should be understood that some aspects of the present invention that have resulted from attempting to attain the above mentioned objects may not satisfy these objects and or may satisfy other objects not specifically recited herein.

Additional and or alternative features aspects and advantages of embodiments of the present invention will become apparent from the following description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

Our work is now described with reference to the figures. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention by way of embodiment s . It may be evident however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances when applicable well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present invention.

The features provided in this specification mainly but might not exclusively relate to principles of computer software and machine readable code instructions adapted to instruct a computer many computers or other machines adapted to use the instructions to provide material effects on a display or other means enabling human computer interactions to manage documents menus user selectable elements and other computer files. These code instructions are preferably stored on a machine readable medium to be read and acted upon with a computer or machine having the appropriate code instructions reading capability.

The client devices may include devices such as mainframes minicomputers personal computers laptops personal digital assistants phones or the like capable of connecting to the network . The client devices may transmit data over the network or receive data from the network via a wired wireless or optical connection.

The servers may include one or more types of computer systems such as a mainframe minicomputer or personal computer capable of connecting to the network to enable servers to communicate with the client devices . In alternative implementations the servers may include mechanisms for directly connecting to one or more client devices . The servers may transmit data over the network or receive data from the network via a wired wireless or optical connection.

In an implementation consistent with the present invention illustratively embodied herein the servers may include a search engine usable by the client devices . The servers may store documents such as web pages accessible by the client devices .

With reference to a network includes the content cloud a content database content devices and other devices . The network mediator enables network devices to communicate with each other without pre configuring each device . The content cloud represents a content source such as the Internet where content exists at various locations across the globe that could be reached through a wired connection and or with a wireless connection provided by an antenna . The content includes multimedia content such as audio and video. The mediator allows the content cloud to provide content to devices . The database is a storage device that maintains content. The database may be a standalone device on an external communication network. The mediator communicates with the database to access and retrieve content. The content devices include intelligent devices such as for example personal computers laptops cell phones and personal digital assistants. The content devices are capable or storing content data. The devices are intelligent devices that receive content from other content devices . However the devices can also operate as servers to distribute content to other client devices if desirable.

The following discussion provides a brief general description of an exemplary computer apparatus in which at least some aspects of the present invention may be implemented. The present invention will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computerized device. However methods of the present invention may be affected by other apparatuses. Program modules may include routines programs objects components data structures applets WEB 2.0 type of evolved networked centered applications etc. that perform a task s or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that at least some aspects of the present invention may be implemented with other configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor system microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network computers minicomputers set top boxes mainframe computers gaming consoles and the like. At least some aspects of the present invention may also be carried out in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices linked through a communications network as exemplified in . In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices .

With reference to an exemplary apparatus for implementing at least some aspects of the present invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer or in the form of a computerized portable apparatus. The computer may include a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing basic routines that help to transfer data between elements within the computer such as during start up may be stored in ROM . The computer may also include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a e.g. removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magneto optical disk such as a compact disk or other magneto optical media. The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and magneto optical disk drive may be coupled with the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and a magneto optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated storage media provide non volatile or persistent storage of machine readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk those skilled in the art will appreciate that other types of storage media such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memories ROM remote cloud storage and the like may be used instead of or in addition to the storage devices introduced above.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk magneto optical disk ROM or RAM such as an operating system for example Windows NT 4.0 sold by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. one or more application programs other program modules such as Alice which is a research system developed by the User Interface Group at Carnegie Mellon University available at www.Alice.org OpenGL from Silicon Graphics Inc. of Mountain View Calif. or Direct 3D from Microsoft Corp. of Bellevue Wash. and or program data for example.

A user may enter commands and data into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a camera and a pointing device . Other input devices not shown such as a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner a touch sensitive screen accelerometers or a motion sensor detector such as KINECT that are adapted to sense movements of the user or movements of a device or the like may also be included. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface coupled to the system bus . However input devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port a game port blue tooth connection or a universal serial bus USB . For example since the bandwidth of the camera may be too great for the serial port the video camera may be coupled with the system bus via a video capture card not shown . The video monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter for example. The video adapter may include a graphics accelerator. One or more speakers may be connected to the system bus via a sound card e.g. a wave table synthesizer such as product number AWE64 Gold Card from Creative Labs of Milpitas Calif. . In addition to the monitor and speaker s the computer may include other peripheral output devices not shown such as a printer a hi definition television and a scanner for example. As an alternative or an addition to the video monitor a stereo video output device such as a head mounted display or LCD shutter glasses for example could be used.

The computer may operate in a networked environment defining logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be another computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and may include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an intranet and the Internet.

When used in a LAN the computer may be connected to the LAN through a network interface adapter or NIC . When used in a WAN such as the Internet the computer may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the wide area network e.g. Wi Fi WinMax . The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface or another type of port interface. In a networked environment at least some of the program modules depicted relative to the computer may be stored in the remote memory storage device . The network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The exemplary network and the exemplary computer system described above are adapted to carry on the following embodiments 

A system is depicted in which may represent the functionalities described in the instant application when run on an apparatus for instance a computer such as has been previously described. The computer may in turn be connected to a server comprising a set of program modules enabling functions including but not limited to computing document rendering network communication application configuration and local database management.

The software system illustratively consists of a collection of at least twelve modules independent from those of the server that together carry out the method required for the functionalities to be visible on a graphical user interface and usable by the user. As illustrated additional modules may also be used in conjunction with the twelve base modules.

A computing module provides a means to circulate data between users the other modules and the apparatus . The computing module is adapted to convert queries which may be system based or user based into graphical rendering in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention. The other modules are configured to send to and receive data from the computing module and to individually or collectively interact with other modules .

An application configuration module provides software configuration to manage application settings and open connections to other servers . Other modules may use the application configuration module to manage their behavior to satisfy user specific needs.

A data elements management module may be used in conjunction with other modules to manage data elements such as documents contained in a database in response to a query . The data elements management module may use any kind of database connection and may use a network communication module in order to access a database through a network on a server computer . The network communication module may use several protocols in order to communicate with a server computer such as IPv4 IPv6 TCP UDP ODBC HTTP WebDAV SSH IMAP and even define its own specific communication protocol. The data elements management module may also be used in conjunction with an email connectivity module and network communication module in order to treat and represent emails in the same way as the data elements of a database . The data elements management module may also be used in conjunction with the permissions module on the client or server side in order to control the user access to elements based by some sort of sharing rules. The data elements management module may also work in conjunction with a caches module providing client side cached versions of the database and files in order to respond to future requests faster. Modules may be made to communicate information in a standardized way by the use of an Application Programming Interface API in order to simplify the data elements management module s interactions with other modules .

The data elements management module may sort through documents stored in the database and connected to each other via a variety of referencing modes may apply a filter as specified in a query and may subsequently direct the filtered documents to other modules this will be shown in . One such module may be an axis ordering module which may distribute documents filtered by the data elements management module onto an axis like array or axis illustrated in according to a collation function that may be user or system specified and analyzed by the computing module . An axis or axis like array is an embodiment of graphical rendering of the functionalities described in the present specification on a device s display that can be embodied as a substantially rectilinear sequence of documents from which a viewer can infer meaning and or relationships therebetween. An axial distribution of documents is adapted to accommodate and display a single type of documents or if desirable more than one type of documents computer files multimedia contents user selectable elements and or user selectable menu elements. Generally an axis is used to graphically group information elements having a commonality. Other functionalities related to axes shall be described in greater detail below.

The axis ordering module may manage the ordering of single documents and or several documents assembled into document sets onto one or more axes . In addition of managing the collation of documents onto an axis the axis ordering module may also manage the order of the documents contained within secondary documents sets not illustrated . The positioning module manages the positioning of documents within axes based on interactions with other modules processing the various elements contained in a query . The positioning module is adapted to and may interpret data contained in document sets generated by the data elements management module in relationship to the query to identify a location for a given document set within the collation of an axis . Likewise a visually distinctive features management module is adapted to interpret data contained in documents or document sets generated by the data elements management module in relationship to the query to selectively apply one or more visually distinctive features not illustrated in this figure to single documents or document sets . Finally a display management module may inter alia manage elements related to the user interface possibly interacting with a graphics card and a monitor . The display management module may use a document rendering module that provides instructions to render specific documents like images text files word processing files spreadsheet files presentation files etc. The document rendering module may also provide an API to let developers add their own extensions to deliver to renderers other document types.

Multiple core functionalities could be integrated to provide core operating system services. A graphical layer framework component could be built over the graphics API component and could be used to provide complex drawing capabilities. The layer based graphics layer framework component may also support widget rendering and handling like buttons text fields dialogs etc. A network management component could be based on pre existing network management capabilities in the operating system core and kernel . It could serve as a tool to manage an Internet network connection through Ethernet Bluetooth Wi Fi Modem and other communication channels. A utility component could handle all the other services needed to communicate with the operating system core and kernel providing functionalities such as user login user authentication memory disk access management etc. Using these modules the axis based user interface would use core functionalities from the graphical layer framework component the network management component and the utility component to provide workspaces comprising multiple axes that display documents not shown in . The axis based user interface may also provide more integrated actions like interface buttons preview or magnification that may be directly docketed. Another component a system preferences management component would provide multiple functions needed by the axis based user interface such as dialogs to manage document insertion attribute definitions users permissions application configuration etc. Finally the operating system may comprise a window management system emulation module . This module may be based on an X Window System or X11 and may use other existing client application libraries to provide a large number of applications as well as functionalities to run windowed applications on top of the axis based user interface . To provide other functionalities third party application providers could build third party core modules on top of the axis based user interface and system preferences management module . Third party application providers could also develop third party software environments and other applications that could be run using the window management system emulation providing the user with useful applications such as an Internet Browser Office Business Applications Multimedia Applications Games etc.

The Window Management System Emulation could also offer functions to provide a more axis based user interface integration such as previews player and editors for the documents displayed in the axis based user interface . For example a rich text document could use a third party module or third party software environment to provide a previewer or media player for the document or a third party application to integrate a live editor on the axis based user interface .

This computer system could be used for instance as a business solution to provide users with an axis based user interface operating system directly on multiple kinds of devices computers laptop tablets cell phones etc. . The computer system may also illustratively be used as a business solution to sell preconfigured devices with the axis based user interface . Since the operating system has a built in axis based user interface the device is likely to have a display and other input devices like a keyboard a mouse or a touch screen interface. The devices may not necessarily provide such parts and may be adapted to be used by communicating information about the user interface and input methods with other devices television set motion sensing input device computer or tablet over network cell phone etc. 

The graphical user interface may run through the operating system and the hardware of the computer system or alternatively through a network based system e.g. client server and cloud computing system as exemplified in and . The interface is adapted to display and manage information elements generally provided on a basis of a query which may be stored in one or many databases as illustrated in that might be distributed in a combination of locations e.g. multiple databases web cloud etc. . Information elements may include computer files pictures multimedia content applications i.e. computer programs menu elements sets of icons and or other user selectable elements all of which shall henceforth be indiscriminately referred to as documents to lighten the text without limiting the scope of the present invention.

An axis based graphical interface is adapted to graphically structure documents in arrays that arrange the documents in rows and or columns in a reasonably regular fashion and to allow navigation thereof by the user further to a query . The axis based layout and ordering provide the user with information about the content of each document its meaning and its relationships to the other documents disposed on the axis . Navigation tools are provided with the axis based user interface to allow navigation through the documents of a single axis and of various axes when a plurality of axes is enabled. The display of documents on an array or axis therefore allows contextual management of documents as a flow or an ongoing rational sequence of documents . An axis based interface thus helps to intuitively display a group of documents and facilitate understanding and managing large sequences of documents bearing a relation.

In a simplified exemplary form an array may be embodied as an axis of documents hereinbelow referred to as axis to lighten the text which groups documents in a single row or column as illustrated in . An axis can be embodied as a substantially rectilinear arrangement of documents adapted to dispose each document on a straight or curved line. The axis can be embodied as completely straight rectilinear slightly curved substantially curved circular angled following a particular shape or have a consistent shape over which documents are disposed in a reasonably consistent fashion. The exact shape of the axis as well as its disposition can vary horizontal vertical or other in relation to the device s display . What matters inter alia is that the layout structure of an axis provides a sequence of documents from which a viewer can infer meaning logical connections contextual location and or relationships.

The axis can be represented as a single axis a double axis or more axes . Axes may be independent from one another using distinct scales or orderings henceforth referred to as collation functions or may form a group of axes by sharing the same scale or collation function . Also a document attribute or other property of an element contained in an axis can be selected and used as a logical connector to create an additional axis from an existing axis . This subsidiary axis is meant to be temporary in some embodiments serving as a way to view a specific set of additional documents or highlight certain documents from the original axis without having to alter the entire workspace . It may originate from the logical connector document or information element and be disposed in non parallel fashion thereto. The subsidiary axis s position is preferably orthogonal to the original axis . However the angle may vary. Like axes logically connected axes may be scrollable. More such logically connected axes can subsequently be created in the same fashion. Navigation among axes and subsidiary axes could be called relational navigation .

Axes may be disposed horizontally and or vertically. Groups of axes may be presented using one of the layouts or combining both. The axes presented in the embodiments below are generally illustrated in the horizontal layout configuration. However they could all or in majority be disposed vertically without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other possible graphical layouts of documents might become obvious to a skilled reader in light of the present application and would be considered within the scope of this application.

When only a portion of the axis is visible a play of zoom pan and scrolling movements along the axis allows a user to navigate the axis and change the series of documents that are displayed in the display area of the display . Scrolling movements can be performed in a variety of ways including but not limited to click and drag pressing on the keys of a keyboard gesturing to a motion sensor or on a touch screen.

Documents might overlap or decrease in size so as to fit or maximize the space available in the display area . Selected documents on an axis can be magnified to increase the level of detail shown. Similarly a small display area could display only one document out of the entire axis . The remaining documents would not be shown in the display area but would yet remain at their respective virtual position on the axis ready to be displayed upon scrolling the axis . In other words if we consider a mobile platform like a mobile phone having a small display the small display might only allow to efficiently exhibit one document at a time. However given that the displayed document is part of an axis the other documents on the axis would remain displayable in accordance with their respective position on the axis when the axis is scrolled navigated gestured.

The documents are selected to be disposed on the axis on the basis of one or more attributes and are ordered thereon according to a collation function namely an ordered arrangement made by comparison e.g. a chronological order adapted to use a time scale . The attribute s and collation function parameters are specified in a query that may be run by a user or by an automated function of the system. Indeed each axis groups documents in accordance with for example a selected tag category keyword document creator or other attribute that expresses a characterization of one or more document s and that are configurable to represent intrinsic or extrinsic characteristics. The term attribute will generally be used throughout the instant specification to lighten the reading of the text and will encompass other document properties or means for establishing commonality or relationships as described above unless otherwise specified.

Attributes may be user specified or system specified. Generally documents bear a plurality of attributes assigned by one or more user s e.g. keyword subject project creator category etc. and a plurality of attributes that are assigned by the system such as illustratively file type time of creation number of views time of last modification file size etc. Given the broad range of applicability of the present invention the attributes that may be assigned by the system and user as well as the attributes that can be desirable to use in the management of axes might substantially vary from one field or user to another and however remain within the scope of present specification.

The selection of one or more attributes using Boolean logic for instance in a query determines which documents will be displayed on the axis . If no specific attribute is selected the axis will display all documents in a default order like the date of creation thereof. Thus all documents on the same axis are normally associated with the selected set or combination of attributes that are used as parameters for the axis . Third party data like publicity or user targeted information could also be added to an axis either arbitrarily or according to user information filtering and or existing collation of axes without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The documents illustrated in feature attributes individually represented by a capital letter thereon or none in which case the documents are left blank. Letter attributes are used in the present application for illustrative purposes only while letter attributes are theoretically possible. More descriptive attributes such as those described above are used in embodiments of the present invention. As is shown in any document can simultaneously feature multiple attributes some user specified and others system specified. In fact a preferred embodiment of the invention assigns a plurality of attributes to every document . Other documents illustrated on are blank or without any associated attribute illustrating documents that could theoretically not be assigned any attribute but that could nonetheless be created and found in a query e.g. a query that would select all documents contained in the database .

The query in here illustratively filters and selects documents from the database based on attribute A for display on the axis . further illustrates that the documents selected from the database by the query are placed on the axis in chronological order another parameter that could be specified in the query . Indeed an axis also generally disposes the documents resulting from the query in accordance with a specified order or collation function e.g. chronological order alphabetical order statistical order increasing file size etc. . A collation function might include dividing the axis into successive collation units e.g. time units in the case of a chronological order which can illustratively be hours days months years etc. . A collation function would thus dispose each document along the axis according to the value of a specified attribute in relation to the collation units of the axis and the other documents of the selected document set . Among collation functions a chronological distribution of documents on a time scale is used in most embodiments of our work because of its intuitiveness because any action or event takes place at a specific time and usually in sequence with other events or actions . While an axis disposing documents in random fashion is also contemplated within the scope of the present specification axes disposing documents according to a collation function are illustrated embodiments because of the usefulness of ordering documents .

An axis or a group of axes may be embodied in a linear configuration or a non linear configuration . Both configurations are illustrated in in a generic example. As can be appreciated from a linear configuration displays collation units of the same graphical longitudinal size regardless of the number of documents contained in each collation unit . The size of the documents located within a given collation unit can optionally be adjusted in accordance with the number of documents located therein. For instance documents will be larger if there are few documents in the collation unit and smaller if many documents are found therein. Alternatively the documents can remain the same size and can overlap or be stacked when their quantity exceeds the available space. Another possible way of making large numbers of documents fit into a fixed size collation unit is to equip the collation unit with a scroll bar allowing the user to navigate the collation unit to reveal hidden documents . This also means that documents in a linear configuration may be displayed as an uneven sequence from a graphical point of view. Ultimately a collation unit in a linear configuration containing no document will appear as empty or as a blank space on the display but will still be the same size as the other collation units of the axis .

Conversely the non linear configuration displays collation units of uneven longitudinal sizes because an even distribution of documents along the axis prevails over the linearity of the collation. In other words document size and a constant flow of documents along the axis are given primacy over having collation units of equal graphical size. This provides a more efficient use of the space on the axes but may provide less meaning to illustrate an evolution along time.

Turning now to illustrating an exemplary spreadsheet like listing or table of information related to sequential steps of a workflow . Each step provides a series of columns adapted to provide a specific type of information related to a step of the workflow . In the embodiment of the pointing device is used to select workflow step 3 thus enabling the creation of a space below workflow step 3. The space is located below the selected step 3 and could alternatively be located above step 3 above the table below the table or elsewhere about the table . A preferred embodiment is presenting a close relationship between the selected step 3 and the array or axis of documents as illustrated in because of the direct graphical relation between the selected workflow step 3 and documents associated therewith. The rectilinear shape of the axis is well suited to fit in a longitudinal space created between two rows representing steps of a workflow. This ensures a strong graphical meaning for a viewer who wants to appreciate the documents associated with a desired workflow step. The illustrative example of the axis in shows twelve 12 documents associated with step 3. Conversely a smaller and a larger number of documents could be presented on the axis if needed. In the event a larger number of documents have to be displayed for the available width allowed for displaying the axis user actuable navigation elements are displayed on each side of the axis .

A simplified table is illustrated in through to focus on the illustrative steps of the workflow . It can be appreciated from that two distinct collation functions are used one for the sequential steps of the workflow and the other for an illustrative chronological arrangement of the documents of the axis . The collation functions could be different or similar without departing from the scope of the present invention. illustrates that a selection of the workflow entry 1 while it is expanded to display an axis of documents associated thereof is removing the axis and closing the space . It has to be noted that a visually distinctive feature in the present situation the text is put in bold is applied to the selected workflow entry 1 WF 1 to ensure a viewer appreciate clearly which WF entry is associated with the displayed axis . The WF entry can serve as an axis header to properly identify each axis .

Turning to an additional document is displayed on the axis . It is the last document in time to be associated with WF 1 and is thus located on the extreme right of the axis thus reflecting the chronological collation function of the axis . The navigation element on the right is now in bold to indicate another document not displayed can be displayed if the axis is further navigated on the right side. WF 2 is selected by a user and WF 1 is closed while WF 2 is expanded to display an axis of documents displaying documents related to the expanded WF 2. While the axis is displayed a new document is automatically displayed by scrolling the existing documents to the left as shown in . The new document is visually distinctive with a bold frame to further identify it is new.

Turning now to that illustrates an exemplary embodiment where a WF entry is using attributes adapted to be associated with documents associated with the WF entry to further classify the documents. In the present example Attributes A B and C are used to further classify the documents associated with WF 2. In the illustrated example an expansion of three distinct axes . . and . is provided and the three axes are displayed could be less . This allows an even better sorting and displaying of documents associated with a WF entry and could be configured with more attributes . With an action all the three axes . . and . could be merged into a single axis not illustrated and vice versa. Other possible attributes could be used to further discriminate the documents displayed on the axes as it is depicted in where the attribute urgent is associated with a bold frame applied to the documents on the axes . This way a viewer can easily appreciate many additional information in a glance. Other variations of how to use attributes in conjunction with the documents and the axes are contemplate by the present application. further depicts another embodiment using collation units along the axes . . and .. Each axis . . and . can be selectively hidden to manage the viewing area available to a user.

The WF entries have been described above as a means to display documents associated with each WF entry . In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention the WF entries can be used to associate add documents to a selected WF entry . In other words the WF entries can be used as an interaction tool adapted to provide at least one preferably many proposed preset collections of attributes where to drag for instance documents thereon to associate the dragged documents with a WF entry and the attributes associated therewith. The documents to associate to a WF entry can be dragged on the corresponding WF entry or can be associated by other means like a contextual menu or a predetermined set of selection from a user. The interaction tool is thus a tool adapted to receive documents and also to display documents as it has been extensively described above. The interaction tool of an embodiment of the invention is a unified tool adapted to offer a simplified way to add and retrieve documents from and for a user to see . In the present example illustrated in and three documents D7 D9 are added to WF 5 and are later displayed along the axis associated with WF 5 and identified in bold since they are newly added.

Another embodied graphical relationship between the axes and their originating interaction element is illustrated in and where axes are graphically expanding from the interaction tool . provides an example of a further identification of new or unseen documents identified by a N and a bold frame along the displayed axes . Furthermore in the elements in interaction tool shows the total number of new or unseen documents .

The order of selection of interaction elements can be used to determine the order in which each axis is located and displayed. illustrates an example where interaction element D is firstly selected before interaction element A . Axis A is moved lower to leave room for displaying axis D moved above. This provides a chronological display of the axes D and A as depicted in . Another example of axes ordering in respect with a collation function chronological in this example can be appreciated from and where the axes are piled in accordance with their collation order order about which the interaction elements are selected .

The description and the drawings that are presented above are meant to be illustrative of the present invention. They are not meant to be limiting of the scope of the present invention. Modifications to the embodiments described may be made without departing from the present invention the scope of which is defined by the following claims 

