---

title: Method and system for channel allocation and bandwidth management in a WiFi device that utilizes full spectrum capture
abstract: A WiFi device, which utilizes full spectrum capture, captures signals over a wide spectrum including one or more WiFi frequency bands and extracts one or more WiFi channels from the captured signals. The AP analyzes the extracted WiFi channels and aggregates a plurality of blocks of WiFi channels to create one or more aggregated WiFi channels based on the analysis. The WiFi frequency bands comprise 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz WiFi frequency bands. The AP determines one or more characteristics of the extracted WiFi channels based on the analysis. The determined characteristics comprise noise, interference, fading and blocker information. The AP generates a channel map comprising at least the extracted one or more WiFi channels based on the determined characteristics. The AP dynamically and/or adaptively senses the extracted one or more WiFi channels and updates the determined characteristics of the extracted WiFi channels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09320019&OS=09320019&RS=09320019
owner: MAXLINEAR, INC.
number: 09320019
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130412
---
This application makes reference to claims priority to and claims the benefit from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 623 248 which was filed on Apr. 12 2012.

Each of the above referenced applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Certain embodiments of the invention relate to wireless communication. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for channel allocation and bandwidth management in a WiFi device that utilizes full spectrum capture.

WiFi Signals occupy bandwidth in two non contiguous spectral bands in the 2.4 and 5 GHz regions of the frequency spectrum.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for channel allocation and bandwidth management in a WiFi device that utilizes full spectrum capture substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be found in a method and system for channel allocation and bandwidth management in a WiFi access point that utilizes full spectrum capture FSC . In various aspects of the invention a WiFi device utilizes full spectrum capture to capture signals over a wide spectrum comprising one or more WiFi frequency bands and extracts one or more WiFi channels from the captured signals. The blocks of WiFi channels may comprise the extracted one or more WiFi channels and or other WiFi channels. The WiFi device may be operable to analyze the extracted full spectrum capture WiFi channels and aggregate a plurality of blocks of the one or more WiFi channels to create one or more aggregated WiFi channels based on the analysis. Aggregating also comprises capturing and aggregating WiFi channels from a plurality of non contiguous WiFi frequency bands and keeping the resulting aggregated WiFI channels as separate logical channels. For example the single FSC WiFi receiver may be operable to capture a plurality of non contiguous 100 MHz bands and aggregate them as separate logical WiFi channels. The one or more WiFi frequency bands may comprise for example a 2.4 GHz WiFi frequency band and a 5 GHz WiFi frequency band. The various aspects and embodiments of the invention are not limited to the 2.4 and 5 GHz frequency bands and may be utilized with other frequency bands without departing from the spirit and or scope of the invention. The WiFi device may be operable to determine one or more characteristics of the extracted one or more WiFi channels based on the analysis. The determined characteristics may comprise noise interference fading and blocker information. The access point may be operable to generate a channel map comprising at least the extracted one or more WiFi channels based on the determined characteristics.

The WiFi device may be operable to dynamically and or adaptively sense or monitor the extracted one or more WiFi channels and update the determined characteristics of the extracted one or more WiFi channels in the channel map. The WiFi device may be operable to update a status of the extracted one or more WiFi channels in the channel map based on the updated determined characteristics. The WiFi device may be operable to receive the extracted one or more WiFI channels and channel characteristics information from one or more WiFi communication devices utilizing the one or more WiFI channels and update the status of the extracted one or more WiFi channels in the channel map based on the received channel characteristics information. The WiFi device may be operable to assign one or more aggregated WiFi channels based on a status of the extracted one or more WiFi channels in the channel map. The WiFi device may be operable to assign the one or more aggregated WiFi channels to one or more WiFi enabled communication devices based a class of service CoS a quality of service QoS and or a type of traffic associated data being communicated by the one or more WiFi enabled communication devices. WiFi is short for wireless fidelity and refers to any wireless local area network device which is based on the IEEE 802.11 standard.

The tablet the Smartphone and the laptop may be communicatively coupled to the WLAN . The tablet the Smartphone and the laptop may be collectively referenced as WiFi enabled communication devices . Each of the WiFi enabled communication devices may comprise a suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate utilizing WiFi. In this regard each of the WiFi enabled communication devices may comprise a single transceiver device that may be operable to capture signals over a very wide spectrum from different WiFi spectral bands utilizing full spectrum capture.

The tablet the Smartphone and the laptop may be communicatively coupled to the WWAN . The tablet the Smartphone and the laptop may be collectively referenced as WiFi enabled communication devices . Each of the WiFi enabled communication devices may comprise a suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate utilizing WiFi. In this regard each of the WiFi enabled communication devices may comprise a single transceiver device that may be operable to capture signals over a very wide spectrum from different WiFi spectral bands utilizing full spectrum capture.

The tablet may comprise a WiFi hotspot . The tablet the Smartphone and the laptop may be communicatively coupled to the WiFi hotspot . The tablet the Smartphone and the laptop may be collectively referenced as WiFi enabled communication devices . Each of the WiFi enabled communication devices may comprise a suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate utilizing WiFi. In this regard each of the WiFi enabled communication devices may comprise a single transceiver device that may be operable to capture signals over a very wide spectrum from different WiFi spectral bands utilizing full spectrum capture. While tablet is shown as comprising the WiFi hotspot any one of the WiFi enabled communication devices or alternatively an access point or a router may be used to establish a WiFi hotspot .

The tablet may comprise a WiFi hotspot . The tablet the Smartphone and the laptop may be communicatively coupled to the WiFi hotspot . The tablet the Smartphone and the laptop may be collectively referenced as WiFi enabled communication devices . Each of the WiFi enabled communication devices may comprise a suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate utilizing WiFi. In this regard each of the WiFi enabled communication devices may comprise a single transceiver device that may be operable to capture signals over a very wide spectrum from different WiFi spectral bands utilizing full spectrum capture. While tablet is shown as comprising the WiFi hotspot any one of the WiFi enabled communication devices or alternatively an access point or a router may be used to establish the WiFi hotspot .

The WLAN may comprise suitable devices and or interfaces that may be utilized by the plurality of WiFi enabled communication devices to access the Internet via the ISP network . For example the WLAN may comprise the WiFi enabled broadband access point and or router that is operable to provide broadband connectivity to the ISP and WLAN connectivity to each of the WiFi enabled communication devices . The broadband connectivity may be provided by at least in part cable satellite and digital subscriber line DSL services for example. The WLAN may also enable the WiFi enabled communication devices to communicate with each other.

The WiFi enabled broadband access point and or router may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide broadband connectivity to the ISP network and WiFi connectivity to each of the WiFi enabled communication devices . In this regard the WiFi enabled broadband access point and or router enables each of the tablet the Smartphone and the laptop to communicate utilizing WiFi to access the services and or data on the Internet via the ISP network and the WLAN .

The ISP network may comprise suitable devices and or interfaces that may be coupled to the Internet and provide access to the Internet for various communication devices. The ISP network may comprise for example a cable service provider network a satellite service provider network and a DSL service provider network. In this regard the ISP network provides access to the Internet for the WiFi enabled communication devices . For example the ISP network provides access to the services and or data on the Internet for each of the tablet the Smartphone and the laptop via the WLAN .

The wireless wide area network may comprise suitable devices and or interfaces that may be coupled to the Internet and provide access to the Internet for various communication devices. The wireless wide area network may comprise for example a cellular service provider e.g. LTE and or a broadband service provider such as for example a WiMax 802.16 or WiFi service provider. In this regard the wireless wide area network provides access to the Internet for the WiFi enabled communication devices . For example the wireless wide area network provides access to the services and or data on the Internet for each of the tablet the Smartphone and the laptop

The Internet may comprise suitable devices and or interfaces that may comprise a plurality of servers which store and serve various data and hosts various Internet services. The ISP may be utilized by the WiFi enabled communication devices to access the Internet services and or data via the WLAN . The WWAN may be utilized by the WiFi enabled communication devices to access the Internet services and or data. The Internet is also accessible to the WiFi enabled communication devices via the WiFi hotspot and the WWAN . Similarly Internet is also accessible to the WiFi enabled communication devices via the WiFi hotspot and the WWAN .

In operation each of the WiFi enabled communication devices and and the WiFi enabled broadband access point and or router are operable to utilize a single WiFi radio to capture WiFi signals over a wide spectrum comprising a plurality of WiFi frequency bands. Instead of having different radios to handle the different WiFi frequency bands each of the WiFi enabled communication devices and and WiFi enabled broadband access point and or router are operable to utilize a single full spectrum capture receiver that is operable to capture a very large bandwidth comprising the different WiFi frequency bands. In accordance with various embodiments of the invention the different WiFi frequency bands may be contiguous WiFi frequency bands or non contiguous WiFi frequency bands. For example the WiFi signals may occupy a 2.4 GHz band ranging from approximately 2.4 2.9 GHz and a 5 GHz band ranging from approximately 4.9 5.9 GHz. Accordingly although the WiFi frequency bands are non contiguous the single WiFi receiver is utilized to capture the WiFi signals from the corresponding WiFi frequency bands.

The plurality of antennas . . . may comprise a plurality of antennas that are utilized to capture a plurality of wireless signals over a wide portion of the spectrum that is allocated for WiFi. The resulting captured plurality of wireless signals are communicated via the antenna interface to the full spectrum capture receiver and transmitter front end for processing. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the plurality of antennas . . . may comprise a diversity antenna system such as for example plurality of phased array antennas. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 857 776 which was filed on Apr. 5 2013 discloses a plurality of phased array antennas and is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The antenna interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to control and or configure operation of the plurality of antennas . . . 

The full spectrum capture receiver front end may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive and process WiFi signals utilizing full spectrum capture. In this regard the full spectrum capture receiver front end may be operable to capture signals over a wide spectrum comprising a plurality of WiFi frequency bands and extract WiFI signals for one or more WiFi channels from the captured signals. The full spectrum capture receiver front end may be operable to capture signals over the 2.4 GHz and the 5 GHz WiFi frequency bands and extract one or more WiFi channels.

The transmitter front end may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to transmit WiFi signals in accordance with the one or more WLAN protocols. The transmitter front end may be operable to synthesize signals over a wide spectrum comprising one or more WiFi freq. bands.

The baseband processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide baseband processing of the WiFi signals that are demodulated by the full spectrum capture receiver front end . The baseband processor may also be operable to process information for transmission. The processed information may be communicated to the transmitter front end where it is modulated and transmitted via the one or more the plurality of antennas . . . . The baseband processor may also be operable to control operation of the full spectrum capture transceiver device . In this regard the baseband processor may be operable to control operation of the plurality of antennas . . . the antenna interface and the full spectrum capture receiver front end and a transmitter front end which includes the full spectrum capture receiver front end and the transmitter front end . The baseband processor may be operable to process digitized data for each of the N WiFi channels which may be handled by the full spectrum capture receiver and transmitter front end .

In operation the antenna interface may be operable to control and or configure operation of the plurality of antennas . . . for capturing the signals over a wide spectrum comprising a plurality of WiFi frequency bands.

The full spectrum capture receiver front end may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive and process WiFi signals utilizing full spectrum capture. In this regard the full spectrum capture receiver front end may be operable to capture signals over a wide spectrum comprising a plurality of WiFi frequency bands and extract WIFI signals for one or more WiFi channels from the captured signals. The full spectrum capture receiver front end may be operable to concurrently capture WiFi signals over the 2.4 GHz and the 5 GHz WiFi frequency bands and extract one or more WiFi channels from the corresponding captured WiFi signals.

The full spectrum capture transceiver device may be operable to aggregate or bond a plurality of WiFi channels in order to produce a high data rate WiFi channel. In various embodiment of the invention a single frequency may be assigned or allocated to each WiFi enabled communication device. In this regard a single FSC WiFi access point may appear as if it were multiple WiFi access points. The client device namely the WiFi enabled communication device does not need to be modified to benefit from this increased capacity. There may be instances when both the client device and the AP are FSC enabled and are operable to bond a plurality of channels and transmit on the bonded channels. In this regard transmission may occur in a duty cycle mode utilizing burst mode and sleep mode to optimize power consumption. The FSC WiFi devices may transmit bursts then go to sleep between bursts.

In an exemplary embodiment a WiFi enabled communication device that is a client device needs to know the transmit pattern times of the WiFi AP. The client device is operable to notify the AP that it has data to transmit. The notification may occur in an acknowledgement ACK packet. The AP and the client device may be operable to agree on a transmit schedule. In this regard the AP and client device namely the WiFi enabled communication device may agree on when the beacon frames will occur since the beacon frames are utilized for timing. In addition or alternatively the AP may transmit beacons at periodic times known to the client device and the client device synchronizes to receive each beacon frame or some subset of beacon frames every other every third etc. . Alternatively a beaconless embodiment may be employed. In any event the AP and client device may operate in accordance with one or more essential or non essential sections or aspects of the IEEE 802.11 standard.

Aspects of full spectrum capture may be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 485 003 filed May 31 2012 U.S. application Ser. No. 13 336 451 filed on Dec. 23 2011 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 607 916 filed Sep. 10 2012. Each of these applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 356 265 which was filed on Jan. 23 2012 disclosures operation of an exemplary full spectrum receiver and is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chain module is part of the full spectrum capture transceiver module and may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to capture signals over a wide spectrum comprising a plurality of WiFi frequency bands and demodulate them. In this regard the full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chain module may comprise a plurality of receive processing chains that may be operable to demodulate different portion of the signals in the captured WiFi frequency bands. The captured spectrum may comprise WiFi signals and non WiFi signals. The full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chain module may be operable to discriminate between the WiFi signals and non WiFi signals and accordingly filter out the unwanted or undesirable non WiFi signals. The resulting filtered signals may be digitized and channelized into a corresponding plurality of frequency bins.

The I Q RF transmit Tx chain module may be part of the full spectrum capture transceiver module and may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to handle modulation of signals that are to be transmitted.

The channelizer module is part of the full spectrum capture transceiver module and may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to handle the channelization of signals for a plurality of each of the processing chains in the full spectrum capture transceiver module . In this regard during reception the channelizer module may be operable to channelize digitized data from each of the corresponding plurality of full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chains in the full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chain module into a plurality of frequency bins. During transmission the channelizer module may be operable to channelize digital data for transmission into a plurality of frequency bins for each of the corresponding I Q RF transmit Tx chains in the I Q RF transmit Tx chain module .

The baseband processor module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to process the demodulated baseband WiFi signals that generated from the full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chain module . The baseband processor may also be operable to process information for transmission. In this regard the processed information may be communicated to the full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chain module where it is modulated and transmitted via the one or more plurality of antennas . . . . The baseband processor may also be operable to manage and control operation of the full spectrum capture AP or router . In this regard the baseband processor may be operable to manage and control operation of the plurality of antennas . . . full spectrum capture transceiver module including the full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chain module the I Q RF transmit Tx chain module and the channelizer module the supervisor module and the routing module . The baseband processor may be operable to handle the processing of digitized data for each of the N WiFi channels that may be handled by the full spectrum capture transceiver module . The baseband processor may be substantially similar to the baseband processor as illustrated in .

The supervisor module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to manage the operation of the full spectrum capture AP or router on a per user basis. In this regard the supervisor module may be operable to control bandwidth allocation and or channel management for the full spectrum capture access point AP and or router . For example the supervisor module may be operable to handle the routing and QoS for packets for particular users.

The per user spectral map module is part of the supervisor module and may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to create a spectral map comprising the quality of various WiFi channels over the different WiFi frequency bands.

The quality of service QoS configuration per user module is part of the supervisor module and may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to control the quality of service that may be provided to each user.

The processor synchronization module is part of the supervisor module and may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to handle synchronization of sample rate and symbol timing across various WiFi channels and or WiFi frequency bands that are utilized for communicating information by one or more users or WiFi enabled user devices. Since a common oscillator may be utilized to handle the different WiFi channels and the different WiFi frequency bands this may simplify the task of dealing with a plurality of different sample rates frequency offsets and other timing information. The processor synchronization module may be operable to store frequency and or timing offset information for a plurality of WiFi enabled user devices and utilize the stored frequency and or timing offset information to synchronize the WiFi enabled user devices. The processor synchronization module may be operable to handle the timing for a plurality of WiFi channels that may be aggregated to provide a desired bandwidth for communicating data.

The routing module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to handle the routing of ingress and egress packets that are handled by the full spectrum capture AP or router .

In operation the full spectrum capture AP or router may be operable to capture WiFi signals over a very large bandwidth and flexibly reconfigure the captured bandwidth in order to achieve a desired bandwidth. In this regard the full spectrum capture AP or router is operable to capture a plurality of WiFi channels and flexibly aggregate the channel to provide a desired bandwidth. The spectrum resulting from the aggregated channels may be referred to as a virtual spectrum. One or more resulting aggregated WiFi channels may be referred to as high bandwidth WiFi channels. The full spectrum capture AP or router is operable to capture and aggregate contiguous and non contiguous blocks of spectrum within a single WiFi frequency band and or contiguous and non contiguous blocks of spectrum within a plurality of WiFi frequency bands. For example the full spectrum capture AP or router may be operable to capture and aggregate contiguous and non contiguous blocks of spectrum within the 2.4 GHz band contiguous and non contiguous blocks of spectrum within the 5 GHz band or contiguous and non contiguous blocks of spectrum within the 2.4 GHz band and also within the 5 GHz band. The resulting aggregated spectrum may appear as if it were a contiguous block of spectrum. The aggregated spectrum may be assigned to one or more users or user devices. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention an aggregated block of WiFi spectrum may be shared among the mobile communication devices . In instances where the tablet may require more bandwidth than the Smartphone and the laptop may not require any bandwidth the WiFi enabled broadband access point and or router may be operable to proportionately allocate the bandwidth for the aggregated block of WiFi spectrum between the tablet and the Smartphone

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention based on the number of channels that are being utilized to capture and aggregate the blocks of spectrum in the WiFi frequency band various components in the full spectrum capture AP or router may operate in a duty cycle mode. For example a portion of the I Q RF receive Rx chains in the full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chain module corresponding channelizers in the channelizer module as well as corresponding baseband processors . . . N in the baseband processor module may be power cycled on when they are needed and power cycled off when they are not needed. The cycling of the power on and off to handle communication of data whenever needed may be referred to as time division power management.

In another embodiment of the invention a portion of the I Q RF receive Rx chains in the full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chain module corresponding channelizers in the channelizer module as well as corresponding baseband processors . . . N in the baseband processor module may be designated as broadcast lanes to handle broadcast traffic. The remaining portion of the I Q RF receive Rx chains in the full spectrum capture I Q RF receive Rx chain module corresponding channelizers in the channelizer module as well as corresponding baseband processors . . . N in the baseband processor module may be designated as common lanes. Based on the type of traffic the lanes may be duty cycled on or off to handle the transfer of data.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the broadcast lanes may be utilized for burst communication of traffic. The full spectrum capture AP or router may be operable to wakeup from a sleep mode and burst a large amount of data over one or more broadcast lanes. At the end of the data burst the full spectrum capture AP or router may be operable to enter a sleep mode. During sleep mode the full spectrum capture AP or router may be operable to monitor one or more common lanes. The common lanes may be utilized for management and control functions as well as communicating smaller amounts of data traffic. During sleep mode the broadcast lanes may be shut down to save power.

The antennas . . . may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or interfaces that are operable to receive WiFi signals. The characteristics of the antennas e.g. coil may be such that they may perform filtering functions and in those instances transmit and or receive filters may not be needed.

The antenna interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to interface with the antennas . . . with the corresponding processing paths in the diversity WiFi receiver .

The variable gain amplifiers may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to variably adjust a corresponding gain of the input signal from antenna interface . For example the variable gain amplifiers may be operable to amplify and or buffer the signal received via the antennas . . . from the antenna interface . The variable gain amplifiers may operate in different modes that enable capturing of different size bandwidths. For example the variable gain amplifiers may be configured to capture narrowband signals or broadband signals.

The multiplexers may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to select from among a plurality of n processing RF receive RX chains in the I Q RF receive processing chain modules respectively where n is an integer. For example the multiplexers may be operable to select which of the plurality of n processing RF receive RX chains within the I Q RF receive processing chain modules are to be utilized for demodulation of the signal output from the multiplexer . Similarly the multiplexers may be operable to select which of the plurality of n processing RF receive RX chains within the I Q RF receive processing chain modules are to be utilized for demodulation of the signal output from the multiplexer . The baseband processor may be operable to control which of the plurality of n processing RF receive RX chains in the n I Q RF receive processing chain modules may be selected.

The I Q RF receive processing chain modules may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to demodulate the signals that are output from the multiplexer respectively. Each of the I Q RF receive processing chain modules may comprise a plurality of n I Q RF receive processing chains. The baseband processor may be operable to select which of the I Q RF receive processing chain modules are to be utilized to demodulate the signals that are output from the multiplexers . For example the I Q RF receive processing chain module may be utilized to demodulate the signals that are output from the multiplexer while the I Q RF receive processing chain module may be utilized to demodulate the signals that are output from the multiplexer

The LOGEN may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to drive one or more oscillators within the I Q RF receive processing chain modules . The LO generator may comprise for example one or more crystals one or more direct digital synthesizers and or one or more phase locked loops.

The channelizers may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to channelize the demodulated signals that are output from the n I Q RF receive processing chain respectively. The channelizers may be operable to separate each of the corresponding channels into a plurality of frequency bins. The output of the channelizers may be combined by a combiner. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the channelization may be achieved via one or more digital filtering algorithms and or other digital signal processing algorithms. Each of the channelizers may comprise a plurality of band selection filters that are operable to process the corresponding output from the plurality of n processing RF receive RX chains in the n I Q RF receive processing chain modules in order to recover a corresponding one of the a plurality of selected frequency bands or frequency bins. The granularity of the channelizers may be programmable. In this regard the channelizers may be programmed to handle channels of varying bandwidth. For example the channelizers may be programmed to handle 20 MHz and or 40 MHz channels.

The maximum ratio combiner may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to combine the channels that are output from the channelizers . For example maximum ratio combiner may be operable to utilize for example a coarse FFT processing that employs a low complexity diversity using coarse FFT and subband wise combining. The coarse FFT processing may optimally combine the signals from a plurality of frequency bins for multiple antennas and accordingly generate an improved maximum ratio combined MRC co phased signals.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 010 070 application Ser. No. 12 247 908 which issued on Aug. 30 2011 discloses exemplary Low Complexity Diversity Using Coarse FFT and Coarse Sub band wise Combining and is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The maximum ratio combiner may also be operable to utilize channel stacking and or band stacking of the plurality of frequency bins. In this regard in one embodiment of the invention a plurality of WiFi frequency bands or WiFi frequency sub bands may be stacked utilizing band stacking. In another embodiment of the invention a plurality of WiFi channels in one or more WiFi frequency bands may be stacked utilizing channel stacking. For example a plurality of WiFi channels in the 2.4 GHz WiFi band and or in the 5 GHz WiFi frequency band may be stacked utilizing channel stacking. In other embodiments of the invention a hybrid or flexible stacking scheme may also be utilized. Additional details regarding stacking may be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 762 939 filed on Feb. 8 2013 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The baseband processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide baseband processing on the channels that are generated from the maximum ratio combiner . The baseband processor may also be operable to function as a controller for the diversity WiFi receiver . In this regard the baseband processor may be operable to control configure and or manage operation of one or more of the antenna interface the variable gain amplifiers the multiplexers the I Q RF receive processing chain modules the local oscillator generator LOGEN the channelizers and the maximum ratio combiner . The baseband processor may be operable to control configure and or manage operation of one or more of the components in the I Q RF receive processing chain modules such as mixers filters and or analog to digital controllers ADCs .

Although the maximum ratio combiner and the baseband processor are illustrated as separate entities the maximum ratio combiner may be integrated as part of the baseband processor .

Although only two antennas . . . are shown for diversity the invention is not limited in this regard. Accordingly more than two antennas may be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The addition of more than two antennas utilizes additional processing paths in the diversity WiFi receiver .

Although a diversity WiFi receiver is illustrated the invention is not limited to the use of the diversity WiFi receiver. Accordingly various embodiments of the invention may utilize a non diversity receiver without departing from the spirit and scope of the various embodiments of the invention.

The I Q RF receive processing chains comprises an in phase I path and a quadrature Q path. The in phase path of the I Q RF receive processing chains comprises a mixer a filter and an analog to digital converter ADC . The quadrature path of the I Q RF receive processing chains comprises a mixer a filter and an analog to digital converter ADC .

Each of the mixers may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to mix the corresponding signal with a local oscillator signal not shown to generate the signal respectively. The mixers are operable to mix the signal with a pair of in phase I and quadrature Q local oscillator signals respectively to generate the corresponding pair of in phase and quadrature signals .

In some embodiments of the invention the mixers in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains may be operable to function with similar characteristics and in other embodiments of the invention the mixers in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains may be operable to function with different characteristics. For example the mixers may be configured to operate with a higher bandwidth than the mixers not shown which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain . Similarly the mixers not shown which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain may be configured to operate with a higher bandwidth than the mixers not shown which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain and the mixers which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain .

The phase and or frequency of the local oscillator signals not shown which are input to the mixers in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . may be controlled via one or more signals from the baseband processor which is illustrated in . In accordance with various embodiments of the invention the phase and or frequency of the local oscillator signals which are input to the mixers in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . may be controlled by the baseband processor based on which one or more WiFi channels and or WiFi frequency bands are to be captured by the diversity WiFi receiver . The phase and or frequency of the local oscillator signals which are input to the mixers in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . may be generated from the LOGEN which is illustrated in .

The filters in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to filter out undesired frequencies channels from the corresponding signals that are output from the oscillators in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . . For example each of the filters in the I Q RF receive processing chains may be operable to filter out undesired frequencies from the signals to generate the corresponding analog signals .

In some embodiments of the invention the filters in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . may be operable to function with similar characteristics and in other embodiments of the invention the filters in each of the I O RF receive processing chains . . . may be operable to function with different characteristics. For example the filters which are within the I Q RF receive processing chains may be configured to operate with a higher bandwidth than the filters not shown which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain . Similarly the filters not shown which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain may be configured to operate with a higher bandwidth than the mixers not shown which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain and the mixers which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain .

The ADCs in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to convert the analog signals from the corresponding signals that are output from the filters in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . . For example each of the ADC in the I Q RF receive processing chains may be operable to convert the analog signals to the corresponding digital signals . The ADCs may be preceded by a frequency conversion step and filtering to shift a higher frequency band to a lower frequency or baseband where it is easier to design wideband data converters.

In some embodiments of the invention the ADCs in each of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . may be operable to function with similar characteristics and in other embodiments of the invention the ADCs in each of the I O RF receive processing chains . . . may be operable to function with different characteristics. For example the ADCs which are within the I Q RF receive processing chains may be configured to operate with a higher bandwidth than the ADCs not shown which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain . Similarly the ADCs not shown which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain may be configured to operate with a higher bandwidth than the ADCs not shown which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain and the ADC which may be within the I Q RF receive processing chain .

In operation the diversity WiFi receiver may be configured to capture a specified number of WiFi channels. In this regard the baseband processor may be operable to configure the multiplexer that feeds the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . to select and enable a corresponding number of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . which are to be utilized to handle reception and demodulation of the specified number of WiFi channels. In some embodiments of the invention only those I Q RF receive processing chains . . . which are selected by the processor are powered and any remaining ones of the I Q RF receive processing chains . . . that are not selected are powered down.

The MRC module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to channels that are output from the channelizers . For example maximum ratio combiner may be operable to utilize for example a coarse FFT processing that employs a low complexity diversity using coarse FFT and subband wise combining. The coarse FFT processing may optimally combine the signals from a plurality of frequency bins for multiple antennas and accordingly generate an improved maximum ratio combined MRC co phased signals. The maximum ratio combiner may also be operable to utilize channel stacking and or band stacking for the plurality of frequency bins.

The beamforming module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to utilize one or more beamforming algorithms to process signals from the plurality of antennas . . . 

The MIMO module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to utilize one or more MIMO algorithms e.g. as defined or supported by 802.11n or 802.11ac to process signals from the beamforming module for plurality of antennas . . . 

The demodulator module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to demodulate the signals from the MIMO module .

The decoder may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to decode the resulting demodulated signals from the demodulator module .

The encoder may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to encode data to be transmitted utilizing one or more encoding algorithms.

The modulator module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to may be utilized to modulate the resulting encoded output from the encoder .

The MIMO module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to utilize one or more MIMO algorithms to process signals for transmission via the plurality of antennas . . . 

The beamforming module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to utilize one or more beamforming algorithms to process signals from the MIMO module for transmission via the plurality of antennas . . . 

The processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to control operation of the FSC WiFi receiver . In this regard the processor may be operable to control the components within the FSC receiver module and the baseband processor.

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store operating code operating data and configuration settings. The memory may be operable to store information that may be utilized to control operation of one or more of the components in the FSC receiver module and the baseband processor of the FSC WiFi receiver.

The supervisor module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to control bandwidth allocation and or channel management for the full spectrum capture access point and or router . The supervisor module is substantially similar to the supervisor module which is shown in and described with respect to . The supervisor module may comprise for example a firmware layer within the baseband processor and or a software layer which may run on the processor . The software layer and the firmware layer may coordinate in order to control and manage various channel and bandwidth related functions. For example the supervisor module may be operable to handle various functions that deal with the assessment interference avoidance aggregation allocation and assignment of WiFi channels for the WiFi enabled mobile communication devices. The software layer and the firmware layer are operable to coordinate communication between the WiFi enabled mobile communication devices and one or more WiFI access points. For example the software layer and the firmware layer may be utilized to notify the WiFi enabled mobile communication devices about what channels to utilize and when to switch to these channels. The software layer and the firmware layer be operable to configure the full spectrum capture receiver front end to monitor and or scan one or more WiFi frequency bands and evaluate the channel condition for each WiFi for a particular WiFi enabled wireless communication device. Based on the scanning or monitoring the resulting information may be utilized to control handoff from one WiFi access point to another WiFi access point as the WiFi enabled communication devices moves. Various medium access control MAC layer mechanisms comprising synchronization of symbols frequency and beacon frames and other MAC related timing may also be handled by this layer. Additionally various physical PHY layer mechanisms may also be utilized to control and manage synchronization and timing amongst the one or more WiFI access points and or one or more WiFI enabled communication devices.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention in order to dynamically allocate and reallocate bandwidth based on user device needs each channel may be assigned its own SSID. Accordingly choosing a channel may be analogous to choosing a WiFi network. Hence for example for eight channels at an access point it would appear as if there are 8 different access points. For example a user who may be surfing the Internet on a tablet in the kitchen may walk out to the yard. Once in the yard the tablet may be exposed to interference and the current channel that is being utilized may no longer be good. Accordingly full spectrum capture and the services provided by the software layer and the physical layer may be operable to seamlessly switch to a better channel. The channels may be synchronous to enable handoff. The full spectrum capture WiFi access point and or router may be operable to store timing offset information for each of the WiFi enabled communication devices in order to provide multi channel synchronicity which enables seamless switching between channels.

Quality of service QoS may also be managed across all the channels for one or more WiFi enabled communication devices. There may be different types of QoS. For example QoS may be based on latency service tier type of traffic class of traffic class of service and so on. QoS may be mapped across the frequencies and if a blocker or interference occurs then WiFi channels frequencies may be dynamically reassigned to maintain a particular QoS. Synchronicity of the channels may enable fast switching between channels since there is no need to reestablish timing or relocking. Beacon structures may be shared to enable synchronicity. The frame times and symbol times may be interlocked.

For handoff a prioritized list of channels that is dynamically updated may be maintained. When it becomes necessary to switch channels the list or the channel map may be accessed in order to determine what frequencies channels may be utilized. The list or channel map may be kept up to date so no additional time may be needed to determine what channel or channel should be switched to.

In accordance with various embodiments of the invention there may be instances when one or more of the WiFI enabled communication devices may be able to detect interferers and instances when one or more of the APs may be able to detect interferers. Accordingly the access points and or the WiFI enabled communication devices may be operable to share frequency or spectral quality information. A protocol may be utilized to establish beamforming on the channels in order to determine the quality of the MIMO beamformed channel. In this regard the protocol may be utilized to control and or manage operation of the MIMO module and the beamforming module . This may be utilized to map the channels in real time. In this regard the protocol may be utilized to dynamically update channel information in the channel map.

In operation the signals received by the full spectrum capture transceiver are channelized and the MIMO module is operable to synthesize MIMO channels from all the captured WiFi channels. The architecture of the full spectrum capture transceiver enables for example one of the WiFi channels to be pulled out and all of the bandwidth for those particular WiFi channels may be assigned to a particular WiFi enabled communication device. In other words in instances where there are a plurality of WiFi enabled communication devices the full spectrum capture transceiver may be operable to assign each of the plurality of WiFi enabled communication devices its own dedicated WiFi channel. In this regard there is no need for a plurality of WiFi enabled communication devices to share a particular WiFi AP channel. The number of WiFi enabled communication devices to which the channels may be assigned may be dependent on or limited by the number of demodulators that are available for example in the full spectrum capture transceiver .

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention based on the architecture of the full spectrum capture transceiver in order to double the capacity twice the number of channels may be channelized by the full spectrum capture transceiver and assigned to the client WiFi enabled communication devices. Accordingly there is no need to modify the architecture of the client WiFi enabled communication devices. In other words only the access point router needs to be modified. The full spectrum capture transceiver provides a flexible and scalable architecture to increase capacity without having to modify the WiFi enabled communication devices or having to add complexity to the Access point and or router.

In accordance with various embodiments of the invention certain traffic may be assigned to certain channels based on various criteria. For example a user of a client WiFi enabled communication device that is surfing the Web may be assigned to one channel and another user of a client WiFi enabled communication device that may be a watching HD video content may be assigned to another channel and so on. Different bandwidth channels may be assigned to different client WiFi enabled communication devices based on bandwidth requirements. In conventional WiFi APs in order for a user to get dedicated WiFi channels that user would have to upgrade the AP to an 802.11ac compliant WiFi AP. However the full spectrum capture transceiver is operable to provide dedicated channel usage and channels may be assigned based on the type of traffic or class of traffic that is being handled. In effect the full spectrum capture transceiver is operable to provide 802.11 ac capabilities without the need to actually utilize an 802.11ac communication device. The full spectrum capture transceiver allows adaptive and dynamic sensing of the channels to determine which ones are being utilized or are unusable or impaired due to fading interference or noise and those channels can be avoided or marked as bad. Those channels that are usable or are not impaired and may therefore be selected and allocated for use. Accordingly the full spectrum capture transceiver may be referred to as a WiFi Turbocharger.

One major advantage of utilizing full spectrum capture with WiFi is that only the APs need to be upgraded and not the client WiFi enabled communication mobile devices. This is a win situation for consumers in that they do not need to upgrade their WiFi enabled laptops or other client WiFi enabled communication devices to take full advantage of the various features and functions provided by FSC with WiFi. Accordingly network providers may upgrade the network infrastructure without having to worry about end users upgrading their WiFi enabled communication devices.

The use of multiple WiFi channels by the full spectrum capture transceiver may provide power savings. Duty cycling across a plurality of WiFi channels may provide power savings as opposed to sending a significant amount of data across a single WiFi channel. The full spectrum capture transceiver may be operable to transmit data in a burst mode after which the full spectrum capture transceiver goes to sleep. The sleep and wake modes may be dependent on for example WiFi beacon timing. The WiFi enabled communication devices may burst data for example in a round robin time division manner across a plurality of WiFi channels assigned by the full spectrum capture transceiver . The full spectrum capture transceiver may configure and assign multiple channels and the WiFi enabled communication devices may be operable to burst data across the assigned WiFi channels in a synchronous manner. The WiFi receivers may be shut down or enter a low power mode in instances when the WiFi transmitter is not bursting data or when the WiFi receivers may be consuming content that was previously received in a burst. In one example a WiFi enabled communication device s transceiver circuit may enter a low power mode when it is not communicating video and the device s transceiver circuit may enter a sleep mode when it is consuming received content. In another example the WiFi enabled communication device may receive 2 seconds worth of video and send acknowledgements and then shut down the RF front end circuits in the FSC WiFi receiver when the FSC WiFi receiver is consuming the 2 seconds worth of video.

The hardware modules may comprise the MRC and the components in the demodulation path which may comprise the MRC module the beamforming module the MIMO module the demodulator module and the decoder . The hardware modules may also comprise the components in the demodulation path which may comprise the beamforming module the MIMO module the modulator module and the encoder .

The processor and the memory may be substantially similar to the processor and the memory respectively which are shown in and described with respect to . The memory may be operable to store operating code configuration information and or data for one or more applications functions and or algorithms. A channel map and or one or more channel lists may be stored in the memory .

The firmware layer may comprise code that may be operable to control operation of one or more components in the full spectrum capture WiFi device. In this regard the firmware layer may be operable to control operation of one or more components in the baseband processor and the full spectrum transceiver front module . The firmware layer may be operable to communicate with the software layer . The supervisor module may be part of the firmware layer .

The software layer may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable communicate with the firmware layer via one or more application programming interfaces APIs and or drivers. In this regard the software layer may be operable to control operation of one or more of the hardware modules in the full spectrum capture WiFi device via the APIs and or drivers. The software layer may comprise one or more applications functions and or algorithms which may be execute by the processor . The operating code and or data for the one or more applications functions and or algorithms may be stored in the memory . The supervisor module may be part of the software layer .

In operation the firmware layer and the software layer may be operable to control the full spectrum capture operations for the full spectrum capture WiFi AP and or router device which may comprise controlling capturing of signals over a wide spectrum comprising one or more WiFi frequency bands. The firmware layer and or the software layer may be operable to run an analysis on the captured spectrum and may extract one or more WiFi channels from the captured signals. The analysis may determine one or more characteristics of the extracted WiFi channels. Based on the determined characteristics the firmware layer and or the software layer may aggregate a plurality of blocks of the one or more WiFi channels to create one or more aggregated WiFi channels. The firmware layer and or the software layer may be operable to generate a channel map of the extracted WiFi channels based on the determined characteristics which may comprise for example noise interference fading and or blocker information. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the firmware layer and or the software layer may be operable to acquire current and or past channel characteristics information from one or more WiFi enabled communication devices that have utilized the WiFi channels. This acquired information may be aggregated with other channel information and may be utilized to update the status of the WiFI channels in the channel map.

The firmware layer and or the software layer may be operable to configure the full spectrum capture WiFi AP and or router device to utilize full spectrum capture to periodically or aperiodically monitor and or scan the entire WiFi spectrum and update one or more channels maps. The channel map of the extracted WiFi channels may be periodically or aperiodically updated based on the determined WiFi channel characteristics. The firmware layer and or the software layer may be operable to update the status of the WiFi channel in the channel map and accordingly mark which ones of the WiFi channels may be good or bad.

The channel information in the channel map may be utilized to control handoff of the WiFi enabled communication devices from one WiFi access point to another WiFi access point. The channel information in the channel map may also be utilized to configure one or more lanes or physical channels in the full spectrum capture WiFi AP and or router device to take advantage of the captured spectrum in order to accommodate or facilitate QoS various types and classes of traffics and so on. In some embodiments of the invention the firmware layer and or the software layer may be operable to assign one or more lanes as a common lane for handling certain kinds of traffic and one or more lanes as dedicated or broadcast lanes for handling certain kinds of traffic. The information in the channel map may be utilized to prioritize and or rank channels base on various characteristics such as availability noise interference fading and blocker information as well as other characteristics. Exemplary parameters that may be utilized to specify the characteristics for a channel may comprise SNR SINR CINR signal strength indicator SSI packet rate bit error rate and so on. The WiFi device may comprise for example an WiFI access point a WiFi router an integrated WiFi modem e.g. cable or DSL a WiFi hotspot a WiFi enabled client device and so on.

The firmware layer and or the software layer may also be operable to aggregate and assign one or more of the aggregated WiFi channels to one or more WiFi enabled communication devices based on a status of the extracted one or more WiFi channels in the channel map. The assignment of the one or more aggregated WiFi channels to one or more WiFi enabled communication devices may be based a class of service CoS a quality of service QoS and or a type of traffic associated data the is to be communicated by the one or more WiFi enabled communication devices. In some instances the firmware layer and or the software layer may assign an aggregated channel to a first WiFi enabled communication device and if there is excess bandwidth remaining the remaining excess bandwidth may be assigned to as second WiFi enabled communication device.

The firmware layer and or the software layer may also be operable to control power management in the full spectrum capture WiFi AP and or router device. For example based on the channel analysis channel monitoring and or on the channel information acquired from one or more of the WiFi enabled communication devices the firmware layer and or the software layer may be operable to disable or power down or place in a sleep mode or low power mode various components within the full spectrum capture WiFi AP and or router . For example the firmware layer and or the software layer may determine that data may be bursted over one or more high bandwidth channels rather than utilizing several channels to communicate the data. In this regard the firmware layer and or the software layer may configure one or more lanes for bursting traffic and turn off other circuits within the full spectrum capture WiFi AP and or router device that are not being utilized. The firmware layer and or the software layer may also be operable to utilize duty cycling of communication within the full spectrum capture WiFi AP and or router device in order to save power. The firmware layer and or the software layer may also be operable to shutdown broadcast lanes when they are not being utilized and configure the full spectrum capture WiFi AP and or router device to monitor only the common lanes.

For device in the per user channel map at time t the channels and are marked as good and channels and are marked as bad. For device in the per user channel map at time t the channels and are marked as good and channels is marked as bad. Accordingly over time channel remains bad and channel has improved from bad to good for device .

For device in the per user channel map at time t all the channels are marked as good. For device in the per user channel map at time t the channels and are marked as good and channel is marked as bad. Accordingly over time channel remains bad. For device and device the status of channel is bad. This may possibly indicate a problem with channel in the proximity of where device is located and the proximity of where device is located since device m has a status of good for channel at time instances t and t .

For device m in the per user channel map at time t the channels and are marked as good and channel is marked as bad. For device m in the per user channel map at time t the channels and are marked as good and channel is marked as bad. Accordingly over time channel remains bad for device m. For device and device the status of channel is good. This may possibly indicate a problem with channel in the proximity of where the device m is located since device and device has a status of good for channel at time instances t and t.

Based on the information in the per user channel map at time t and the per user channel map at time t the firmware layer and or the software layer may be operable manage and or control bandwidth channels and or power for the full spectrum capture WiFi AP and or router device.

While the discussion with respect to and specifically reference an access point the functionality described can be employed by any WiFi enabled communication device such as for example a client device providing WiFi connectivity to other client devices .

In accordance with various embodiments of the invention a single FSC WiFi receiver is operable to utilize full spectrum capture to capture signals over a wide spectrum comprising a plurality of WiFi frequency bands extract one or more WiFi channels from the captured signals and aggregate a plurality of blocks of the WiFi channels to create one or more aggregated WiFi channels. The WiFi frequency bands may comprise a 2.4 GHz WiFi frequency band and a 5 GHz WiFi frequency band. The single FSC WiFi receiver is operable to aggregate a plurality of blocks of the WiFi channels from contiguous blocks of spectrum and or non contiguous blocks of spectrum in one or more of the plurality of WiFi frequency bands for example 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz. The single FSC WiFi receiver is operable to filter out one or more non WiFi channels from the captured signals to leave only the WiFi channels. The single FSC WiFi receiver is operable to assign one or more aggregated WiFi channels to one or more WiFi enabled communication devices. At least a portion of the one or more aggregated WiFi channels may be dynamically assigned to one or more other WiFi enabled communication devices.

The single FSC WiFi receiver is also operable to dynamically adjust a bandwidth of one or more processing lanes in order to handle channels of varying bandwidth. The single FSC WiFi receiver may also duty cycle operation of one or more processing lanes within the single receiver. A plurality of processing lanes within the single receiver may be assigned as a broadcast lane for handling high bandwidth traffic. One or more processing lanes within the single FSC WiFi receiver may be assigned as a common lane for handling low bandwidth traffic and or control traffic.

In accordance with various embodiments of the invention a WiFi access point router includes a receive radio frequency RF front end and a baseband processor that controls operation of the receive RF front end . The RF front end captures signals over a wide spectrum that includes a plurality of WiFi frequency bands 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz and channelizes one or more WiFi channels from the captured signals. The baseband processor combines a plurality of blocks of the WiFi channels to create one or more aggregated WiFi channels. The receive RF front end may be integrated on a first integrated circuit and the baseband processor may be integrated on a second integrated circuit . The first and second integrated circuits may be integrated on a single package . The RF front end and the baseband processor may be integrated on a single integrated circuit.

The WiFi access point comprises a routing module that is communicatively coupled to the baseband processor . The baseband processor may diversity process the channelized one or more WiFi channels and duty cycle communication traffic across a plurality of the aggregated WiFi channels. The baseband processor may assign one of the aggregated WiFi channels as a dedicated channel for handling traffic for a WiFi enabled communication device. The baseband processor may dynamically reassign the assigned one of the aggregated WiFi channels as a dedicated channel for handling traffic for another WiFi enabled communication device.

In accordance with various embodiments of the invention a full spectrum capture WiFi device such as the FSC WiFi transceiver utilizes full spectrum capture to capture signals over a wide spectrum comprising one or more WiFi frequency bands and extracts one or more WiFi channels from the captured signals. The full spectrum capture WiFi transceiver may be operable to analyze the extracted full spectrum capture WiFi channels and aggregate a plurality of blocks of WiFi channels to create one or more aggregated WiFi channels based on the analysis. The blocks of WiFi channels may comprise the extracted one or more WiFi channels and or other WiFi channels. The one or more WiFi frequency bands may comprise a 2.4 GHz WiFi frequency band and a 5 GHz WiFi frequency band. The full spectrum capture WiFi WiFi transceiver may be operable to determine one or more characteristics of the extracted one or more WiFi channels based on the analysis. The determined characteristics may comprise noise interference fading and blocker information. The full spectrum capture WiFi WiFi transceiver may be operable to generate a channel map comprising at least the extracted one or more WiFi channels based on the determined characteristics. The full spectrum capture WiFi transceiver may be operable to dynamically and or adaptively sense the extracted one or more WiFi channels and update the determined characteristics of the extracted one or more WiFi channels.

The full spectrum capture WiFi transceiver may be operable to update a status of the extracted one or more WiFi channels in the channel map based on the updated determined characteristics. The full spectrum capture WiFi transceiver may be operable to receive channel characteristics information from one or more WiFi communication devices utilizing the one or more WiFI channels and update the status of the extracted one or more WiFi channels in the channel map based on the received channel characteristics information. The full spectrum capture WiFi transceiver may be operable to assign one or more aggregated WiFi channels based on a status of the extracted one or more WiFi channels in the channel map. The full spectrum capture WiFi transceiver may be operable to assign the one or more aggregated WiFi channels to one or more WiFi enabled communication devices based a class of service CoS a quality of service QoS and or a type of traffic associated data being communicated by the one or more WiFi enabled communication devices.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the term exemplary means serving as a non limiting example instance or illustration. As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

Other embodiments of the invention may provide a computer readable device and or a non transitory computer readable medium and or a machine readable device and or a non transitory machine readable medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for channel allocation and bandwidth management in a WiFi device that utilizes full spectrum capture.

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

