---

title: Periodic channel state information reporting for time division duplex (TDD) carrier aggregation systems
abstract: Technology for periodic channel state information (CSI) reporting is disclosed. One method can include a user equipment (UE) identifying a configured CSI reporting instance for a secondary cell to report the periodic CSI to a node based on a CSI reporting configuration of the secondary cell. The UE can determine that the configured CSI reporting instance of the secondary cell used to report the periodic CSI does not correspond with an uplink (UL) subframe of a primary cell. The UE can transmit the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell, to the node, using a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) on the secondary cell when the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell does not correspond with the UL subframe of the primary cell and an UL-SCH (Uplink Shared Channel) is available in a subframe that corresponds to the periodic CSI reporting instance of the secondary cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09161254&OS=09161254&RS=09161254
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09161254
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130503
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 707 784 filed Sep. 28 2012 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirely for all purposes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

The macro node can be used for basic coverage. The low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes in a HetNet.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

An increase in the amount of wireless data transmission has created congestion in wireless networks using licensed spectrum to provide wireless communication services for wireless devices such as smart phones and tablet devices. The congestion is especially apparent in high density and high use locations such as urban locations and universities.

One technique for providing additional bandwidth capacity to wireless devices is through the use carrier aggregation of multiple smaller bandwidths to form a virtual wideband channel at a wireless device e.g. UE . In carrier aggregation CA multiple component carriers CC can be aggregated and jointly used for transmission to from a single terminal. Carriers can be signals in permitted frequency domains onto which information is placed. The amount of information that can be placed on a carrier can be determined by the aggregated carrier s bandwidth in the frequency domain. The permitted frequency domains are often limited in bandwidth. The bandwidth limitations can become more severe when a large number of users are simultaneously using the bandwidth in the permitted frequency domains.

Carrier aggregation CA enables multiple carrier signals to be simultaneously communicated between a user s wireless device and a node. Multiple different carriers can be used. In some instances the carriers may be from different permitted frequency domains. Carrier aggregation provides a broader choice to the wireless devices enabling more bandwidth to be obtained. The greater bandwidth can be used to communicate bandwidth intensive operations such as streaming video or communicating large data files.

Network symmetric or asymmetric carrier aggregation can be defined by a number of downlink DL and uplink UL component carriers offered by a network in a sector. UE symmetric or asymmetric carrier aggregation can be defined by a number of downlink DL and uplink UL component carriers configured for a UE. The number of DL CCs may be at least the number of UL CCs. A system information block type 2 SIB2 can provide specific linking between the DL and the UL by means of signaling EUTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number EARFCN for the UL which is associated with a corresponding DL. illustrates a block diagram of a symmetric asymmetric carrier aggregation configuration where the carrier aggregation is symmetric between the DL and UL for the network and asymmetric between the DL and UL for the UE. illustrates a block diagram of an asymmetric symmetric carrier aggregation configuration where the carrier aggregation is asymmetric between the DL and UL for the network and symmetric between the DL and UL for the UE.

A component carrier can be used to carry channel information via a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a uplink transmission between a node e.g. eNodeB and the wireless device e.g. UE using a generic long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in . While an LTE frame structure is illustrated a frame structure for an IEEE 802.16 standard WiMax an IEEE 802.11 standard WiFi or another type of communication standard using SC FDMA or OFDMA may also be used.

Reference signals RS can be transmitted by SC FDMA symbols via resource elements in the resource blocks. Reference signals or pilot signals or tones can be a known signal used for various reasons such as to synchronize timing estimate a channel and or noise in the channel. Reference signals can be received and transmitted by wireless devices and nodes. Different types of reference signals RS can be used in a RB. For example in LTE systems uplink reference signal types can include a sounding reference signal SRS and a UE specific reference signal UE specific RS or UE RS or a demodulation reference signal DM RS . In LTE systems downlink reference signal types can include channel state information reference signals CSI RS which can be measured by a wireless device to provide CSI reports on a channel.

An uplink signal or channel can include data on a Physical Uplink Shared CHannel PUSCH or control information on a Physical Uplink Control CHannel PUCCH . In LTE the uplink physical channel PUCCH carrying uplink control information UCI can include channel state information CSI reports Hybrid Automatic Retransmission reQuest HARQ ACKnowledgment Negative ACKnowledgment ACK NACK and uplink scheduling requests SR .

The wireless device can provide aperiodic CSI reporting using the PUSCH or periodic CSI reporting using PUCCH. The PUCCH can support multiple formats i.e. PUCCH format with various modulation and coding schemes MCS as shown for LTE in Table 1. For example PUCCH format 3 can be used to convey multi bit HARQ ACK which can be used for a UE supporting carrier aggregation in Time Division Duplex TDD .

In another example PUCCH format 2 can use frequency hopping as illustrated in . Frequency hopping can be a method of transmitting radio signals by rapidly switching a carrier among many frequency channels using a pseudorandom sequence or specified sequence known to both a transmitter e.g. UE in an uplink and a receiver e.g. eNB in the uplink . Frequency hopping can enable the UE to exploit the frequency diversity of a wideband channel used in LTE in an uplink while keeping a contiguous allocation in the time domain .

The PUCCH can include various channel state information CSI reports. The CSI components in the CSI reports can include a channel quality indicator CQI a precoding matrix indicator PMI a precoding type indicator PTI and or rank indication RI reporting type. The CQI can be signaled by a UE to the eNodeB to indicate a suitable data rate such as a modulation and coding scheme MCS value for downlink transmissions which can be based on a measurement of the received downlink signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR and knowledge of the UE s receiver characteristics. The PMI can be a signal fed back by the UE to support multiple input multiple output MIMO operation. The PMI can correspond to an index of the precoder within a codebook shared by the UE and eNodeB which can maximize an aggregate number of data bits which can be received across all downlink spatial transmission layers. PTI can be used to distinguish slow from fast fading environments. The RI can be signaled to the eNodeB by UEs configured for PDSCH transmission modes 3 e.g. open loop spatial multiplexing and 4 e.g. closed loop spatial multiplexing . RI can correspond to a number of useful transmission layers for spatial multiplexing based on the UE s estimate of the downlink channel enabling the eNodeB to adapt the PDSCH transmissions accordingly.

The granularity of a CQI report can be divided into three levels wideband UE selected subband and higher layer configured subband. The wideband CQI report can provide one CQI value for an entire downlink system bandwidth. The UE selected subband CQI report can divide the system bandwidth into multiple subbands where the UE can select a set of preferred subbands the best M subbands then report one CQI value for the wideband and one differential CQI value for the set assuming transmission only over the selected M subbands . The higher layer configured subband CQI report can provide a highest granularity. In the higher layer configured subband CQI report the wireless device can divide the entire system bandwidth into multiple subbands then reports one wideband CQI value and multiple differential CQI values such as one for each subband.

The UCI carried by the PUCCH can use different PUCCH reporting types or CQI PMI and RI reporting types to specify which CSI reports are being transmitted. For example PUCCH reporting Type 1 can support CQI feedback for UE selected sub bands Type 1a can support subband CQI and second PMI feedback Type 2 Type 2b and Type 2c can support wideband CQI and PMI feedback Type 2a can support wideband PMI feedback Type 3 can supports RI feedback Type 4 can supports wideband CQI Type 5 can support RI and wideband PMI feedback and Type 6 can support RI and PTI feedback.

Different CSI components can be included based on the PUCCH reporting type. For example RI can be included in PUCCH reporting types 3 5 or 6. Wideband PTI can be included in PUCCH reporting type 6. Wideband PMI can be included in PUCCH reporting types 2a or 5. Wideband CQI can be included in PUCCH reporting types 2 2b 2c or 4. Subband CQI can be included in PUCCH reporting types 1 or 1a.

The CQI PMI and RI PUCCH reporting types with distinct periods and offsets can be supported for the PUCCH CSI reporting modes illustrated by the table in . illustrates an example for LTE of the PUCCH reporting type and payload size per PUCCH reporting mode and mode state.

The CSI information reported can vary based on the downlink transmission scenarios used. The various scenarios for the downlink can be reflected in different transmission modes TMs . For example in LTE TM 1 can use a single transmit antenna TM 2 can use transmit diversity TM 3 can use open loop spatial multiplexing with cyclic delay diversity CDD TM 4 can use closed loop spatial multiplexing TM 5 can use multi user MIMO MU MIMO TM 6 can use closed loop spatial multiplexing using a single transmission layer TM 7 can use beamforming with UE specific RS TM 8 can use single or dual layer beamforming with UE specific RS and TM 9 can use a multilayer transmission to support closed loop single user MIMO SU MIMO or carrier aggregation. In an example TM 10 can be used for coordinated multipoint CoMP signaling such as joint processing JP dynamic point selection DPS and or coordinated scheduling coordinated beamforming CS CB .

Each transmission mode can use different PUCCH CSI reporting modes where each PUCCH CSI reporting mode can represent different CQI and PMI feedback types as shown for LTE in Table 2.

For example in LTE TMs 1 2 3 and 7 can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 0 or 2 0 TMs 4 5 and 6 can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 1 or 2 1 TM 8 can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 1 or 2 1 if the UE is configured with PMI RI reporting or PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 0 or 2 0 if the UE is configured without PMI RI reporting and TMs 9 and 10 can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 1 or 2 1 if the UE is configured with PMI RI reporting and number of CSI RS ports is greater than one or PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 0 or 2 0 if the UE is configured without PMI RI reporting or number of CSI RS ports is equal to one. Based on the downlink transmission scheme e.g. transmission mode a UE can generate more CSI reports than may be permitted to be transmitted to nodes e.g. eNBs without generating a signal collision or interference. The wireless device e.g. UE may make a determination on the CSI reports to keep and transmit and which CSI reports to drop or discard and not transmit to avoid a collision on a subframe.

In CSI reporting the PUCCH format 2 can convey 4 to 11 CSI CQI PMI PTI RI bits from the UE to the eNB. In carrier aggregation each serving cell can be independently configured by radio resource control RRC signaling regarding a CSI configuration such as a periodicity a starting offset or a PUCCH mode. However the transmission of CSI using PUCCH format 2 may only be performed in primary cell. In an example using PUCCH format 2 one CSI report for a specified serving cell may be transmitted while the remaining CSI reports for other serving cells may be dropped when more than one CSI report for multiple serving cells has a potential to collide with each other in a same subframe. Dropping the CSI reports for other serving cells may prevent the collision of the CSI reports in the same subframe. In an example the criteria used to determine the priority of a periodic CSI reports transmitted and the periodic CSI reports that are dropped can be based on a PUCCH reporting type with a lower CSI reporting type priority being dropped. PUCCH reporting types 3 5 6 and 2a can have a highest or top priority and PUCCH reporting types 2 2b 2c and 4 can have a next priority or a second priority and PUCCH reporting types 1 and 1a can have a third or lowest priority. So the UE can drop the CSI reports with PUCCH reporting types 1 1a first then drop the CSI reports with PUCCH reporting types 2 2b 2c and 4 second then drop any CSI reports with PUCCH reporting types 3 5 6 and 2a above the number of CSI report s to be transmitted. In an example a CSI report can be generated for each component carrier CC . Each CC can be represented by a serving cell index i.e. ServCellIndex . Among CSI reports having reporting types with a same priority e.g. PUCCH reporting types 3 5 6 and 2a a priority of a cell can decrease as the corresponding serving cell index i.e. ServCellIndex increases i.e. the lower cell index has higher priority .

In another example the CSI report priority can be based on the CSI component where RI and wideband PMI reporting have a higher priority than CQI reporting and wideband CQI reporting has a higher priority than subband CQI reporting. RI can have a higher priority because RI can provide general information about a network channel condition. In an example PMI and CQI can be dependent on RI. Wideband CQI can have higher priority than subband CQI because wideband CQI can provide general quality information about a channel or to a worst case scenario of the channel whereas the subband CQI provides narrower subband channel quality information.

In periodic CQI PMI reporting for TDD the periodicity values e.g. 1 5 10 etc. may depend on the TDD UL DL configuration for a serving cell. For example the reporting period of N 1 for a serving cell may be applicable to TDD UL DL configurations 0 1 3 4 and 6 for the serving cell where all UL subframes in a radio frame are used for CQI PMI reporting. The reporting period of N 5 for a serving cell may be applicable to TDD UL DL configurations 0 1 2 and 6 for the serving cell. In addition the reporting periods of N 10 20 40 80 160 may be applicable to all TDD UL DL configurations i.e. TDD UL DL configurations 0 1 2 3 4 5 and 6 .

The periodic CSI report for each serving cell i.e. the primary cell and up to four secondary cells may be independently configured for carrier aggregation. Thus each serving cell may be configured to report CSI to the eNB based on a periodicity value or a reporting period i.e. N and an offset value i.e. N . The periodicity value and the offset value may be used to determine one or more periodic CSI reporting instances for the serving cell. In other words the periodic CSI reporting instances for the serving cell may correspond with uplink UL subframes of the serving cell. Thus the UL subframes of the serving cell may be used to periodically report the CSI to the eNB based on the periodicity and offset of the serving cell.

In carrier aggregation the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell may be transmitted to the eNB by a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH on the primary cell. In particular the periodic CSI report of the secondary cell may be transmitted via the PUCCH on the primary cell when the periodic CSI reporting instance of the secondary cell corresponds with an UL subframe of the primary cell. In other words the secondary cell may be scheduled to report the periodic CSI at an UL subframe that corresponds with the UL subframe in the primary cell. In particular the periodic CSI report of the secondary cell may be transmitted via PUCCH format 2 2a 2b or 3 on the primary cell.

In one configuration the primary cell may have a Time Division Duplex TDD Uplink Downlink UL DL configuration different than the TDD UL DL configuration of the secondary cell. For example the primary cell may have a TDD UL DL configuration of 2 and the secondary cell may have a TDD UL DL configuration of 1. Since the periodic CSI report of the primary cell may be transmitted to the eNB on the PUCCH on the primary cell the different TDD UL DL configurations of the primary cell and the secondary cell may not affect the periodic CSI report of the primary cell. However due to the different TDD UL DL configurations the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell may be scheduled during a periodic CSI reporting instance that does not correspond with the UL subframe in the primary cell. As a result the UE may be unable to report the periodic CSI for the secondary cell to the eNB. In other words if the primary cell and the secondary cell have different TDD UL DL configurations then the UL DL patterns between the primary cell and the secondary cell may not match and periodic CSI reports for the secondary cell may not be transmitted via the primary cell.

As shown in the primary cell may have TDD UL DL configuration 2 and the secondary cell may have TDD UL DL configuration 1. The Ivalue of the primary cell may be 3 i.e. the N 5 and the N 2 and the Ivalue of the secondary cell may be 4 i.e. the N 5 and the N 3 . Therefore the UE does not have an UL subframe in the primary cell to transmit the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell. In contrast if the primary cell and the secondary cell have the same TDD UL DL configuration the primary cell may have an UL subframe to send the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell to the eNB when the secondary cell has an UL subframe.

In order to report the CSI of the secondary cell based on a periodic CSI reporting instance when the primary cell does not have a corresponding UL subframe the UE may perform one or more actions. For example the UE may determine that the secondary cell has a Physical Uplink Shared Channel PUSCH on the periodic CSI reporting instance i.e. the UL subframe of the secondary cell. In other words the UE may determine that on the UL subframe of the secondary cell that is scheduled to report the CSI the secondary cell has a PUSCH. Thus the UE may multiplex the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell on the PUSCH when the UL subframe is unavailable on the primary cell and an UL SCH Uplink Shared Channel on the secondary cell is available in the UL subframe of the secondary cell. Therefore the UE may transmit uplink control information UCI such as the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell and the UL SCH using the PUSCH of the secondary cell.

In one configuration the UE may drop the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell in response to determining that the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell does not correspond with the UL subframe of the primary cell. In addition the UE may drop the periodic CSI report when the secondary cell does not include the PUSCH with the UL SCH. In other words the UE may drop the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell that was scheduled to be transmitted to the eNB by PUCCH format 2 or 2a or 2b or 3 on the primary cell.

Since the UE may transmit the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell in the PUCCH of the primary cell the following periodicity values may apply depending on the TDD UL DL configuration the reporting period of Npd 1 for a serving cell may apply to TDD UL DL configurations 0 1 3 4 or 6 for the primary cell and all UL subframes of the primary cell are used for periodic CSI reporting the Npd value of 5 for a serving cell may apply to TDD UL DL configurations 0 1 2 or 6 for the primary cell and the Npd value of 10 20 40 80 or 160 for a serving cell may apply to TDD UL DL configurations 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 for the primary cell. In other words the above periodicity values may identify which UL subframes are available for the primary cell based on the Nvalue for a serving cell as PUCCH is transmitted on the primary cell and not the secondary cell.

In addition the periodic reporting time definitions may be modified in reference to the primary cell which transmits the periodic CSI of the secondary cell to the eNB on the PUCCH on the primary cell. The periodic reporting time may be given below. In the case where wideband CQI PMI reporting is configured the reporting instances for wideband CQI PMI are subframes satisfying 10 n n 2 N mod N 0 where nis the system frame number and nis the slot index within a subframe 0 to 1 for the primary cell. In addition Nis the corresponding wideband CQI PMI reporting offset in subframes and Nis the wideband CQI PMI period in subframes. The parameters Nand Nare for the primary cell or the secondary cell configured by RRC signaling.

In case RI reporting is configured the reporting interval of the RI reporting is an integer multiple Mof period Npd in subframes . The parameter Mis selected from the set 1 2 4 8 16 32 OFF. The reporting instances for RI are subframes satisfying 10 n n 2 N N mod N M 0 where Nis the corresponding relative RI offset to the wideband CQI PMI reporting offset in subframes. In addition Nmay be a parameter for the primary cell or the secondary cell configured by RRC signaling.

The periodicity Nand the offset Nfor wideband CQI PMI reporting are determined based on the parameter cqi pmi ConfigurationIndex. The periodicity Mand offset Nfor RI reporting are determined based on the parameter ri ConfigurationIndex. Both cqi pmi ConfigurationIndex and ri ConfigurationIndex are configured by higher layer signaling from the eNB to the UE.

In the case where both wideband CQI PMI and subband CQI reporting are configured the reporting instances for wideband CQI are subframes satisfying 10 n n 2 N mod N 0.

The PTI may not be transmitted e.g. the PTI may not be configured or the most recently transmitted PTI may be equal to 1. As a result the wideband CQI wideband PMI or wideband CQI wideband second PMI for transmission mode 9 report has period H N and is reported on the subframes satisfying 10 n n 2 N mod H N 0. The integer H is defined as H J K 1 where J is the number of bandwidth parts. As previously stated nis the system frame number and nis the slot index within a subframe 0 to 1 for the primary cell. In addition the parameters N H J K and Nare for the primary cell and the secondary cell configured by RRC signaling.

Between every two consecutive wideband CQI wideband PMI or wideband CQI wideband second PMI for transmission mode 9 reports the remaining J K reporting instances are used in sequence for subband CQI reports on K full cycles of bandwidth parts except when the gap between two consecutive wideband CQI PMI reports contains less than J K reporting instances due to a system frame number transition to 0 in which case the UE shall not transmit the remainder of the subband CQI reports which have not been transmitted before the second of the two wideband CQI wideband PMI or wideband CQI wideband second PMI for transmission mode 9 reports. Each full cycle of bandwidth parts shall be in increasing order starting from bandwidth part 0 to bandwidth part J 1. The parameter K is configured by higher layer signaling.

When the most recently transmitted PTI is 0 the wideband first precoding matrix indicator report has period H N and is reported on the subframes satisfying 10 n n 2 N mod H N 0 where H is signaled by higher layers. In addition H may be for the primary cell or the secondary cell configured by RRC signaling. Between every two consecutive wideband first precoding matrix indicator reports the remaining reporting instances are used for a wideband second precoding matrix indicator with wideband CQI as described below.

In case RI reporting is configured the reporting interval of RI is Mtimes the wideband CQI PMI period H N and RI is reported on the same PUCCH cyclic shift resource as both the wideband CQI PMI and subband CQI reports. The reporting instances for RI are subframes satisfying 10 n n 2 N N mod H N M 0. As previously discussed nand nare respectively the system frame number and slot index within a subframe 0 to 1 for the primary cell. In addition the parameters NN H N J K etc. may be for the primary cell or the secondary cell configured by RRC signaling. As a result the periodic reporting times include that the primary cell may transmit the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell via the PUCCH on the primary cell.

In one configuration the network e.g. the eNB may verify that the periodic CSI reporting configuration e.g. periodicity offset for the CQI PMI RI PTI reporting for the secondary cell is the same as the periodic CSI reporting configuration of the primary cell. For example the UE may receive from the eNB a CSI reporting configuration of the secondary cell based on a Channel Quality Index Precoding Matrix Indicator CQI PMI configuration index that determines both a periodicity N and an offset for the periodic CSI reporting instance in the UL subframes. In addition the UE may receive the CSI reporting configuration of the secondary cell that corresponds with a CSI reporting configuration of the primary cell. The network may verify that the CSI reporting configuration of the secondary cell is the same as the CSI reporting configuration of the primary cell which may minimize the likelihood of the periodic CSI report of the secondary cell being dropped because there is no corresponding UL subframe in the primary cell.

In addition the UE may override the CSI reporting configuration e.g. the periodicity and offset of the secondary cell with the CSI reporting configuration of the primary cell when the UL subframe on the secondary cell does not correspond with the UL subframe on the primary cell. In other words the CSI reporting configuration of the primary cell may be applied to the secondary cell. As a result the DL UL subframes between the primary cell and the secondary cell may match thereby providing an UL subframe on the primary cell during the periodic CSI reporting instance of the secondary cell.

In one configuration the network e.g. the eNB may verify that the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell is not scheduled to occur during an UL subframe of the secondary cell when the primary cell does not have an UL subframe. In addition the UE may receive a Channel Quality Index Precoding Matrix Indicator CQI PMI configuration index for the primary cell to enable the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell to correspond with the UL subframe of the primary cell. As a result the UE may transmit the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell on the PUCCH on the primary cell without dropping the periodic CSI report of the secondary cell.

In order to perform the PUCCH transmission on the primary cell for the periodic CSI report of the secondary cell the network e.g. the eNB may configure the periodicity of the periodic CSI reports to at least 10 ms. For example the periodicity of the periodic CSI reports may be every 10 20 40 80 or 160 milliseconds ms .

In one configuration the UE may delay the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell to a succeeding UL subframe of the primary cell when the UL subframe on the primary cell does not correspond to the periodic CSI reporting instance on the secondary cell. For example the UE may delay the periodic CSI report to the next available UL subframe in the primary cell. The UE may determine that the periodic CSI report delayed to the succeeding UL subframe in the primary cell collides with a previously scheduled periodic CSI report to occur during the succeeding UL subframe i.e. two CSI reports are attempting to be transmitted in the same subframe . Thus the UE may drop the periodic CSI report with a lower CSI reporting type priority between the colliding CSI reports. For example the PUCCH reporting types 3 5 6 and 2a may have a priority higher than PUCCH reporting types 1 1a 2 2b 2c and 4 and PUCCH reporting types 2 2b 2c and 4 may have a priority higher than PUCCH reporting types 1 and 1a. In one example a priority of a cell decreases as the corresponding serving cell index i.e. ServCellIndex increases when the CSI reporting types are the same priority level. In other words the lower cell index has a lower priority level.

In a scenario when carrier aggregation and coordinated multipoint CoMP transmission mode 10 are applied together a report type has a priority higher than the CSI process index and the serving cell index and the CSI process index has a priority higher than the serving cell index. For a UE in transmission mode 10 a collision between the periodic CSI reports of the same serving cell with the PUCCH reporting type of the same priority and the CSI reports correspond to different CSI processes the periodic CSI reports corresponding to all CSI processes except the CSI process with the lowest CSIProcessIndex may be dropped. For a given subframe and UE in transmission mode 10 the periodic CSI reports of all serving cells except the serving cell with a lowest serving cell index i.e. ServCellIndex may be dropped when the periodic CSI reports of different serving cells with PUCCH reporting types of the same priority collides with the periodic CSI reports corresponding to CSI processes with a same CSIProcessIndex. For a given subframe and UE in transmission mode 10 the periodic CSI reports of all serving cells except the serving cell with periodic CSI reports corresponding to a CSI process with the lowest CSIProcessIndex may be dropped when the periodic CSI reports of different serving cells with a PUCCH reporting type of the same priority level collides with the periodic CSI reports corresponding to CSI processes with a different CSIProcessIndex. Therefore periodic CSI reports that collide with other CSI reports i.e. in the same UL subframe of the primary cell may be dropped according to the above dropping principles.

In one configuration the network e.g. the eNB may verify that the p CSI configuration for the secondary cell is a subset of the p CSI configuration of the primary cell. However the offset value may or may not be the same. For example the p CSI configuration Ifor the primary cell may be 1 i.e. N 5 and N 0 . Therefore the eNB may ensure that the p CSI configuration Ifor the secondary cell is 7 i.e. N 10 and N 1 . As a result the PUCCH transmission may occur on the primary cell for the periodic CSI report of the secondary cell.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a user equipment UE operable to report periodic channel state information CSI as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to identify a reporting period and an offset period for a secondary cell to report the periodic CSI to an evolved node B eNB based on a CSI reporting configuration of the secondary cell as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to determine that an uplink UL subframe of a primary cell used to report the periodic CSI using a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH on the primary cell corresponds to a periodic CSI reporting instance of the secondary cell the reporting instance being determined based on the reporting period and the offset period for the secondary cell as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to transmit the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell to the eNB using the PUCCH on the primary cell as in block .

In one configuration the computer circuitry can be configured to determine that the subframe corresponding to the to a periodic CSI reporting instance of the secondary cell does not correspond with the UL subframe of the primary cell and transmit the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell to the eNB using a Physical Uplink Shared Channel PUSCH on the secondary cell. In addition the computer circuitry may be configured to transmit the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell using the PUCCH on the primary cell wherein a reporting period of N 1 for a serving cell applies to Time Division Duplex TDD uplink downlink UL DL configurations 0 1 3 4 or 6 for the primary cell and all UL subframes of the primary cell are used for periodic CSI reporting the Nvalue of 5 applies to TDD UL DL configurations 0 1 2 or 6 for the primary cell and the Nvalue of 10 20 40 80 or 160 applies to TDD UL DL configurations 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 for the primary cell.

In an example the UL subframe of the primary cell can be used to transmit the periodic CSI of the secondary cell to the eNB when the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell corresponds with the UL subframe of the primary cell. In addition the primary cell can have a Time Division Duplex TDD uplink downlink UL DL configuration different than the TDD UL DL configuration of the secondary cell.

In another example the computer circuitry can be configured to drop the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell in response to determining that the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell does not correspond with the UL subframe of the primary cell. Furthermore the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell can be transmitted on one of a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH format 2 or 2a or 2b or 3 of the primary cell when the UL subframe of the primary cell corresponds with the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell.

In one configuration the computer circuitry can be configured to multiplex the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell on a Physical Uplink Shared Channel PUSCH of the secondary cell when the UL subframe is unavailable on the primary cell and an UL SCH Uplink Shared Channel on the secondary cell is available in the UL subframe of the secondary cell. In addition the computer circuitry can be configured to receive the CSI reporting configuration of the secondary cell based on a Channel Quality Index Precoding Matrix Indicator CQI PMI configuration index that determines both the reporting period Npd and the offset period for the periodic CSI reporting instance in the UL subframes of the secondary cell.

In addition the computer circuitry may be configured to override the CSI reporting configuration of the secondary cell with a CSI reporting configuration of the primary cell when the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell does not correspond with the UL subframe on the primary cell.

Another example provides a method for periodic channel state information CSI reporting as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of identifying at a user equipment UE a periodic CSI reporting instance for a secondary cell to report the periodic CSI to a node based on a CSI reporting configuration of the secondary cell as in block . The method can include determining that the periodic CSI reporting instance of the secondary cell used to report the periodic CSI does not correspond with an uplink UL subframe of a primary cell as in block . The next operation of the method can be determining that the periodic CSI reporting instance on the secondary cell used to report the periodic CSI includes a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH as in block . The method can further include transmitting the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell to the node using the PUSCH on the secondary cell when the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell does not correspond with the UL subframe of the primary cell and an UL SCH Uplink Shared Channel is available in a subframe that corresponds to the periodic CSI reporting instance of the secondary cell as in block .

In one configuration the method can include multiplexing the periodic CSI report of the secondary cell on the PUSCH of the secondary cell and transmitting uplink control information UCI and the uplink shared channel UL SCH using the PUSCH of the secondary cell. In addition the method can include dropping the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell when the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary does not correspond with the UL subframe on the primary cell and the secondary cell does not include the PUSCH with the UL SCH. In one example the primary cell has a Time Division Duplex TDD uplink downlink UL DL configuration different than the TDD UL DL configuration of the secondary cell.

In one configuration the method can include receiving a Channel Quality Index Precoding Matrix Indicator CQI PMI configuration index for the primary cell to enable the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell to correspond with the UL subframe of the primary cell. In addition the method may include selecting a Channel Quality Index Precoding Matrix Indicator CQI PMI configuration index to provide a periodicity Npd of greater than 10 milliseconds ms for the secondary cell. Furthermore the method can include delaying the periodic CSI for the secondary cell to a succeeding UL subframe of the primary cell when the UL subframe on the primary cell does not correspond to the periodic CSI reporting instance on the secondary cell.

In one example the method can further include determining that the periodic CSI report delayed to the succeeding UL subframe in the primary cell collides with a scheduled periodic CSI report to be performed on the succeeding UL subframe in the primary cell and dropping the periodic CSI report based on a priority level of the periodic CSI report wherein PUCCH reporting types 3 5 6 and 2a have a priority higher than PUCCH reporting types 1 1a 2 2b 2c and 4 and PUCCH reporting types 2 2b 2c and 4 have a priority higher than PUCCH reporting types 1 and 1a.

In another configuration the method can include determining that the p CSI configuration of the secondary cell is a subset of the p CSI configuration of the primary cell. In one example the node can be selected from the group consisting of a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a remote radio unit RRU and combinations thereof.

The wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The wireless device can be configured for a periodic channel state information CSI reporting. The processing module can be configured to identify a periodic CSI reporting instance for a secondary cell to report the periodic CSI to an evolved node B eNB based on a CSI reporting configuration of the secondary cell determine that the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell used to report the periodic CSI does not correspond with an UL subframe of a primary cell and determine that the periodic CSI reporting instance for the secondary cell used to report the periodic CSI includes a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH . The transceiver module can be configured to transmit the periodic CSI report for the secondary cell to the eNB using the PUSCH on the secondary cell.

In one example the processing module can be further configured to multiplex the periodic CSI report of the secondary cell on the PUSCH of the secondary cell before uplink control information UCI and an uplink shared channel UL SCH are transmitted to the eNB using the PUSCH of the secondary cell. In addition the processing module can be configured to receive a CSI reporting configuration of the secondary cell that corresponds with a CSI reporting configuration of the primary cell based on a Channel Quality Index Precoding Matrix Indicator CQI PMI configuration index that determines both a reporting period N and an offset period for the CSI reporting in UL subframes of the secondary cell.

In another example an Npd value of 1 applies to Time Division Duplex TDD uplink downlink UL DL configurations 0 1 3 4 and 6 for the primary cell and all UL subframes of the primary cell are used for periodic CSI reporting the Npd value of 5 applies to TDD UL DL configurations 0 1 2 and 6 for the primary cell and the Npd value of 10 20 40 80 or 160 applies to TDD UL DL configurations 0 1 2 3 4 5 and 6.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

