---

title: Automated recommended joining data with presented methods for joining in computer-modeled structures
abstract: A system that provides automated/semi-automated recommendations for joining one or more instantiations of a structure that is modeled in a computer model. The system receives input joining data from the computer model. The system uses the received input joining data to automatedly determine recommended joining data. In some embodiments, the system further includes functionality that allows a user select a recommended joining method, joining parameters, or other joining data. Such systems can be implemented in any of a wide variety of manners, such as within a single computing device or across a communications network, among others. In some embodiments, functionalities of the system are integrated into computer-modeling software directly of via add-on software.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09606701&OS=09606701&RS=09606701
owner: Benko, LLC
number: 09606701
owner_city: New London
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131014
---
The present invention generally relates to the field of computer aided design and structure fabrication. In particular the present invention is directed to automated joining data recommending and presenting methods for computer modeled structures.

Technical specifications and engineering drawings typically convey a variety of information about a to be fabricated structure such as a part or an assembly of components. Examples of such information includes information about geometry materials finishes connections hardware special processes dimensions tolerances and others things as known in the art. The documents are prepared by engineers however manufacturers rely on the documents for manufacturing preparation to build the desired structure such as a part or an assembly of multiple components. There are differing skill levels involved on both the engineering side and the manufacturing side which has led to a gap between the two stages involved in fabricating a structure.

For the joining of structures an engineer communicates desired techniques and parameters to the manufacturer using complex symbols e.g. American National Standards Institute or ANSI symbols . The manufacturer must understand the meaning of these symbols which may be prone to error and require interpretation skill and or time. The manufacturer also verifies that the structure can be fabricated using the engineer s specified joining technique. If the manufacturer identifies a potential issue or an opportunity to improve the engineer s design the manufacturer must contact the engineer directly which is time consuming and inefficient.

In an implementation the present disclosure is directed to a method of assisting a user in selecting a join for a structure represented in a computer model. The method includes receiving via a join recommending system a join request receiving via the join recommending system input joining data executing within the join recommending system and in response to the receiving the join request a joining recommendation algorithm that determines recommended joining data as a function of the input joining data presenting the recommended joining data to the user via a join recommendation user interface receiving via the join recommendation user interface a user selection of the recommended joining data so as to create selected joining data and automatedly associating the selected joining data with the computer model.

Aspects of the present invention include software tools and techniques for automatically recommending and presenting joining data and methods for joining in one or more instantiations of a structure that is represented in a computer model through the use of a join recommendation user interface. Using various ones of these tools and techniques precise joining features and other joining data extracted from the computer model can be used along with joining parameters as well as input joining data from an input joining data user interface to create highly precise and highly repeatable joining recommendations to be presented to a user. Other aspects of the present invention include software tools and techniques for allowing a user to optionally share or send the presented recommendations to another. Still other aspects of the present invention include software tools and techniques to optionally allow a user to select a joining method from the presented recommendations through a join recommendation user interface which may be associated with the computer model in any of various ways e.g. through the use of a feature tree or by visually displaying the selected joining data on the computer model . These and other aspects of the present invention will become readily apparent upon reviewing this entire disclosure. Before proceeding with describing numerous aspects of the present invention in detail a number of definitions of certain terms used throughout this disclosure are first presented. These terms shall have the following meanings throughout unless noted otherwise. Like terms such as differing parts of speech differing tenses singulars plurals etc. for the same term e.g. fabricating fabricate fabrication fabrications fabricated shall have commensurate meanings.

Structure A structure can be any physical thing that can be made by or under the control of a human and or under the control of one or more machines. For example a structure can be made by hand using one or more tools using one or more pieces of machinery or any combination thereof. Examples of structures include but are not limited to objects parts assemblies of components buildings vehicles machines semiconductor devices computing devices and electronic equipment among many others. Fundamentally there is no limitation on what a structure can be other than that it is fabricated.

Fabricate To fabricate a structure is perform a step or collection of steps needed to physically instantiate the structure. In this context fabrication includes but is not limited to steps of cutting machining milling turning making connections molding in particular injection molded parts casting stamping forming bending etching drilling etc. Synonyms that fall within the meaning of fabricate herein include but are not limited to manufacture erect assemble mold and form among many others.

Computer model A computer model is a virtual for example digital model of a physical structure as created using appropriate computer modeling software such as SolidWorks available from Dassault Systhacek over e mes SolidWorks Corp Waltham Mass. AutoCAD available from Autodesk Inc. San Rafael Calif. and MicroStation available from Bentley Systems Inc. Exton Pa. among many others. A computer model can be of any type such as a wireframe or solid model among others or any combination thereof and can be saved in a computer file using any suitable file protocol such as .SLDPRT .SLDASM .STP .IGS a .DWG .DXF .DGN etc. A computer model includes information about the geometry and or other properties of the modeled structure.

Joining A joining is a means that attaches portions of a structure or structures together in such a way as to ensure that the overall structure is structurally sound e.g. strong enough to resist and withstand the force loads expected of it . A joining can be made by hand using one or more tools using one or more pieces of machinery or any combination thereof. Joining can be fully automated e.g. robotic or involve varying degrees of human input. Examples of joinings include but are not limited to seam welds stitch welds spot welds rivets nails screws nuts and bolts adhesives fuses among many others. Fundamentally there is no limitation on what joining can mean other than that it attaches portions of a structure or structures to one another.

Input joining data Input joining data are input data to a system of the present disclosure that may be extracted from a computer model and that influence the recommended joining data of the structure s represented by the computer model. It is noted that input joining data may be either extracted or non extracted. The process of extracting joining data from a computer model is more one of scraping than extraction because the input joining data is not removed from the computer model which would destroy its integrity but rather scraped i.e. copied from the computer model and processed as needed for use in the system. Non extracted input joining data can be input or received in any suitable manner such as via a input joining data user interface or a non computer model electronic document such as a form fillable portable document format PDF document or a non computer model data file among others. Examples of input joining data include but are not limited to geometry such as size shape dimensions areas configurations numbers of components and other features such as openings recesses bosses etc. type s of material in computer models wherein materials can be specified connection type s and features in computer models wherein such information can be specified finish type s in computer models wherein finishes can be specified among others. Fundamentally there is no limitation on the data that can constitute input joining data other than that they influence the recommended joining data of the structure s and therefore selected joining data.

Recommended joining data Recommended joining data are output data from a system of the present disclosure that are determined by a joining recommendation algorithm based on at least a portion of a computer model of at least a portion of a structure. Recommended joining data may be presented to the user via a join recommendation user interface. For example recommended joining data may include a specific type of joining one or more joining characteristics for a joining quantitative parameter values for a joining or qualitative parameter values for a joining.

Joining characteristic A joining characteristic includes any quantitative and or qualitative data that conveys manufacturing specific knowledge about joining to a user. For example a joining characteristic may be a minimum material thickness a maximum material thickness compatibility information for material types strength of a joint a cosmetic descriptor of a join joining time per edge length segment heat distortion factors per edge length measurement tolerance adjustments per edge length segment or a cost to be incurred by the user for the join among others. Fundamentally there is no limitation on the data that can constitute joining characteristic other than that data conveys manufacturing specific knowledge about joining.

With the foregoing terms and meanings in mind reference is now made to which illustrates a join recommending system that assists a user not shown by presenting recommended joining data for creating one or more instantiations to N by joining portions of structure s with one another via a join recommendation user interface . Said structure s are represented by computer model . As described below in more detail join recommending system determines recommended joining data based on input joining data e.g. input joining data associated with a computer model and or input joining data not obtained from the computer model such as input joining data input by a user via an input joining data user interface which includes user input joining data as part of the recommendation process . As will become readily apparent from reading this entire disclosure join recommending system includes software for performing a method of determining and conveying recommended joining data and optionally allowing a user to determine selected joining data to associate with the structure . illustrates a joining data recommendation presentation and association method that is suitable for use as method of . Method is described below in detail. However before describing method and with continuing reference to join recommending system also includes suitable hardware for executing software . In this context hardware includes all of the corresponding requisite functionality of the physical devices themselves. As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate from reading this entire disclosure method can be implemented in any suitable computer based environment such as in a network of computing devices or in a single computing device. Thus hardware can include a broad range of computing devices.

Examples of hardware that can be used to implement the various steps of method include but are not limited to web servers desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers smartphones and Internet appliances wearable computer such as a GOOGLE GLASS computing device among others. A network of two or more of such devices can include any one or more types of networks including but not limited to a global communications network such as the Internet a wide area network a local area network and a telecommunications network among others. In this connection those skilled in the art will also recognize the myriad of ways that the steps of method can be implemented across a network. For example if any steps of method are implemented on one or more web servers they may be performed by suitable software residing on provided by and or executed by such server s . Such software can include a software application a software module such as a plugin to another software application such as a computer modeling application web browser etc. and or a software code segment. In many cases the same or similar software or any portion thereof can be implemented on a desktop computer a laptop computer and a tablet computer. As another example various steps of method can be performed by one or more mobile apps running on for example a smartphone or tablet computer and provided the ability to communicate with one or more other computing devices running software that performs one or more other steps of the method.

In a particular embodiment all steps of method can be performed by a single computing device such as a desktop computer or a webserver accessible via a browser running an integrated software application that performs all steps of method and that may also include computer modeling functionality as well such as a computer modeling software application . In another embodiment some steps of method can be performed on a first computing device whereas other steps of the method are performed on a second computing device located remotely from the first computing device across a network. Those skilled in the art will understand how to implement any variation reasonably conceivable using only known programming techniques and this disclosure as a guide. Consequently it is not necessary to describe every potential variation for skilled artisans to practice the present invention to the fullest scope accorded by the appended claims. Regardless of the type of hardware used to implement software made in accordance with the present invention the hardware works in combination with and under the control of such software to form join recommending system which provides functionality described herein.

Referring now to and also to for context and noting that 100 series element numerals correspond to and 200 series numerals correspond to at step of method a joining request may be received by software from a user. As noted above request is for recommended joining data for joining one or more instantiations to N of a structure represented by a computer model . Software can receive request in any suitable manner such as via a user interface not shown presented to a user on a computing device accessible to the user. In this example software may present a user selectable soft control not shown such as a soft button or checkbox that a user can select to make the request. As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate the selection of the soft control can be effected in any suitable manner such as by clicking on or otherwise selecting the control using a pointing device e.g. a mouse or by touching a touchscreen at the appropriate location to make the selection. The manner of selection will depend on the particular hardware and configuration of software being used on the user s computing device. As alluded to above the user interface containing the user selectable control can be provided application specific software running on the user s device or a web browser or other remote access means that allows the user to access joining software functionality remotely from the user s device. As another example request may be a more passive request such as the user opening an application not shown of software that provide a user interface for joining recommendation and or selection tasks once the user opens the application software may initiate various ones of its joining recommendation and or selection functionalities. As yet a further example request may be non user initiated such as join recommending system detecting a candidate joining location in structure represented by computer model .

At step in conjunction with the user making joining request software receives input joining data . As described above input joining data can be any data that a joining recommendation algorithm of software needs for determining recommended joining data . Those skilled in the art will understand that input joining data can be determined in a variety of ways. In one example embodiment joining data may be inputted manually by the user through any of a variety of means e.g. a text entry dialogue box or prompt a drop down selection menu and or a bulleted or button selection among others . In another exemplary embodiment joining data may be extracted from computer model automatically in any of a variety of ways. For example if data extraction code is built into computer modeling software such as computer modeling software application the data extraction code may be preprogramed to recognize input joining data within computer model and utilize the internal protocols of that application to gather the that data. As another example if the data extraction code is implemented as an external plugin module to computer modeling software the code might utilize the application s plugin module protocols. As yet another example if the data extraction code is executed externally from the computer modeling application but not as a plugin the external code may utilize an application programming interface of the application. Regardless of how software and the data extraction code are configured those skilled in the art will readily understand how to design the code.

Alternatively input joining data may comprise input joining data which can be received in any of a variety of ways depending on how software is configured in a particular instantiation. For example software may be configured to allow a user to input joining data via the input joining data user interface that includes one or more data input features of one or more differing types such as but not necessarily limited to keyed input fields drop down menus radio control selectors hyperlinks and other selectors among others. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the type s and number of data input features can depend on the robustness of computer model relative to input joining data that it contains and the variety of options available from a particular fabricator. Regarding the former as noted above if a version of computer model includes input joining data such as material type s then the input joining data user interface does not necessarily need a data input feature directed to the material type s since that information will be extracted from the computer model. However for a version of computer model that does not allow the user to specify materials within the computer modeling software therefore prohibiting the extraction of such data the input joining data user interface would need one or more data input features to allow the user to input the appropriate material s needed for recommending joining method s . Of course material type is but one example of a joining data type that can be of either an extracted type or a non extracted type and other joining data that can be of either type can be handled similarly.

The input joining data user interface of the present disclosure can be implemented in any of a number of ways. For example if the input joining data software code is implemented within computer modeling software such as computer modeling software application then the user interface not shown may be presented as a graphical user interface of the software application. Similarly if the input joining data software code is executed in a plug in type external module then the user interface may be presented in the same manner. It is noted that such computer modeling software can be of the type that presents its graphical user interface via an on screen window under the control of the operating system of the computer on which the application is implemented. However in other embodiments the graphical user interface can be presented in another way via a web browser for example when the computer modeling software application includes the input joining data software code and is implemented over the World Wide Web perhaps in a software as a service implementation among others or when the input joining data software code is implemented separately from the computer modeling software application. Regardless of how the input joining data software code is implemented for receiving joining data skilled artisans will be able to create the appropriate software code.

At step software determines and presents recommended joining data to a user via a join recommendation user interface . Depending on the configuration of software and where the various software components of the joining recommendation portion of the software are physically executed step will typically include several substeps. For example at substep joining recommendation algorithm may determine recommended joining data by for example utilizing input joining data . The precise joining recommendation algorithm used in a particular embodiment will be highly dependent on for example the type s of structure s handled by software as well as the particularities of the fabricator s needed to fabricate the instantiation s . Algorithm may in one embodiment function in the form of a decision tree. This decision tree structure may function through a series of branching decisions the outcomes of which may be determined by the available input joining data . This algorithm results in recommended joining data being presented to the user. Joining recommendation algorithm makes these recommendations by analyzing the geometry of the selected features and or the surrounding features and comparing this geometrical data to known parameters and limitations for various joining methods and techniques.

Step may also include a substep at which software conveys recommended joining data to the user. These recommendations may be presented to the user in any one or more of a variety of ways. For example recommended joining data can be displayed on a display screen not shown of the user s computer conveyed in an email and or provided in some other type of message including regular mail an instant message a text message etc. and or as an attachment thereto among others. Illustrative embodiments of this display screen will further be shown in and . Fundamentally there are no limitations on how recommended joining data can be conveyed to a user.

Step may further include an optional substep at which software conveys recommended joining data to an entity other than the user. For example software may transmit recommended joining data to others wishing to collaborate on the design of structure e.g. user s manager design project team members etc. . As another example software may transmit recommended joining data and input joining data to one or more fabricator s for purposes of data collection. As yet another example software may transmit recommended joining data and input joining data to a social media system not shown . Fundamentally there are no limitations on how recommended joining data can be conveyed to other entities.

At optional step the user determines the selected joining data to associate with the computer model of the structure from the recommended joining data presented via a join recommendation user interface . For example selected joining data can be chosen from a display screen not shown of the user s computer conveyed in an email and or provided in some other type of message. Step may involve an iterative process in which the user is provided additional information about recommended joining data before determining the selected joining data . Step may involve the user specifying additional input information e.g. parameter values required for the selected joining data to be associated with the computer model via the input joining data user interface .

At optional step in response to receiving the selected joining data software associates the selected joining data with the computer model of the structure . For example software may append information about the selected joining data to the computer model create a data link between information about the selected joining data and the computer model and or display a visual representation of the selected joining data with a visual representation of the computer model .

It is particularly emphasized that the order of performance of the foregoing steps of method need not be as shown. Rather they may be implemented in any logical order that results in determining and conveying recommended joining data.

In this example optional window further includes a panel that conveys one or more joining characteristics for ones of the recommended joining methods to N . For illustrative purposes panel includes information about the cosmetic appearance strength and cost of ones of the recommended joining methods to N . In one embodiment each joining characteristic includes a control for conveying quantitative and or qualitative information regarding the characteristic which further empowers the user with the ability to compare manufacturing knowledge across recommended joining methods.

The one or more recommended welding methods to N may be selectable by the user. When the user selects a recommended joining method N displayed in panel information for one or more joining characteristics to N associated with the selection is displayed in panel . This feature enables users to quickly toggle between the one or more recommended welding methods to N and compare the one or more joining characteristics to N .

Window further includes a panel that enables the user to signal software regarding recommended joining data and or recommended joining method s that may or may not be associated with the model. Panel includes a confirmation button that enables the user to signal software that ones of the recommended joining methods to N are to be associated with the model. For example upon selection of the confirmation button software may execute step of at which the system may display a window such as window of for use in displaying information for one or more characteristics associated with the selected or recommended joining data to the user. Panel further includes a cancellation button that enables the user to signal software that ones of the recommended joining methods to N are not to be associated with the computer model .

Window also includes a panel that includes one or more controls for conveying recommended joining data determined by joining recommendation algorithm . For example controls to N may convey quantitative and or qualitative joining parameter values to N associated with the joining method . Controls to N may enable the user to modify one or more of the recommended joining parameter values to N .

Window further includes panel which will serve the function of displaying information for one or more characteristics to N associated with the selected joining data . This panel displays this information through the use of selection description widgets to N which will convey quantitative and or qualitative information regarding characteristics to N associated with the selected joining data . Note that the quantitative and or qualitative information displayed in selection description widgets to N may automatically update as the user modifies quantitative and or qualitative joining parameter values to N providing an additional level of specificity to the user regarding the selected joining method .

Window also includes a panel that enables the user to signal software regarding recommended joining data that may or may not be associated with the model. Panel includes a confirmation button that enables the user to signal software that the joining method and quantitative and or qualitative joining parameter values to N are to be associated with the model. For example upon selection of the confirmation button software may execute step of making the association between the selected joining data and the computer model . Panel further includes a cancellation button that enables the user to signal software that the joining method and quantitative and or qualitative joining parameter values to N are not to be associated with the computer model .

As noted above aspects and embodiments described herein may be conveniently implemented using one or more machines e.g. one or more computing devices computer systems that are part of a join recommending system of including hardware and special programming according to the teachings of the present specification as will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the computer arts. Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the software arts.

Such software may be for example a computer program product that employs one or more machine readable hardware storage mediums. A machine readable storage medium may be any medium that is capable of storing and or encoding a sequence of instructions for execution by a machine e.g. a computing device and that causes the machine to perform any one of the methodologies and or embodiments described herein. Examples of a machine readable hardware storage medium include but are not limited to a magnetic disk e.g. a conventional floppy disk a hard drive disk an optical disk e.g. a compact disk CD such as a readable writeable and or re writable CD a digital video disk DVD such as a readable writeable and or rewritable DVD a magneto optical disk a read only memory ROM device a random access memory RAM device a magnetic card an optical card a solid state memory device e.g. a flash memory an EPROM an EEPROM and any combinations thereof. A machine readable medium as used herein is intended to include a single medium as well as a collection of physically separate media such as for example a collection of compact disks or one or more hard disk drives in combination with a computer memory. As used herein a machine readable storage medium does not include a signal.

Such software may also include information e.g. data carried as a data signal on a data carrier such as a carrier wave. Such a data signal or carrier wave would not be considered a machine readable hardware storage medium. For example machine executable information may be included as a data carrying signal embodied in a data carrier in which the signal encodes a sequence of instruction or portion thereof for execution by a machine e.g. a computing device and any related information e.g. data structures and data that causes the machine to perform any one of the methodologies and or embodiments described herein.

Examples of a computing device include but are not limited to a computer workstation a terminal computer a server computer a handheld device e.g. tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone etc. a web appliance a network router a network switch a network bridge any machine capable of executing a sequence of instructions that specify an action to be taken by that machine and any combinations thereof.

Computing device can also include a memory that communicates with the one or more processors and with other components for example via a bus . Bus may include any of several types of bus structures including but not limited to a memory bus a memory controller a peripheral bus a local bus and any combinations thereof using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Memory may include various components e.g. machine readable hardware storage media including but not limited to a random access memory component e.g. a static RAM SRAM a dynamic RAM DRAM etc. a read only component and any combinations thereof. In one example a basic input output system BIOS including basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computing system such as during start up may be stored in memory . Memory may also include e.g. stored on one or more machine readable hardware storage media instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the aspects and or methodologies of the present disclosure. In another example memory may further include any number of program modules including but not limited to an operating system one or more application programs other program modules program data and any combinations thereof.

Computing device may also include a storage device such as but not limited to the machine readable hardware storage medium described above. Storage device may be connected to bus by an appropriate interface not shown . Example interfaces include but are not limited to SCSI advanced technology attachment ATA serial ATA universal serial bus USB IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE and any combinations thereof. In one example storage device or one or more components thereof may be removably interfaced with computing system e.g. via an external port connector not shown . Particularly storage device and an associated machine readable medium may provide nonvolatile and or volatile storage of machine readable instructions data structures program modules and or other data for computing device . In one example software instructions may reside completely or partially within machine readable hardware storage medium . In another example software instructions may reside completely or partially within processors .

Computing device may also include an input device . In one example a user of computing system may enter commands and or other information into computing system via one or more input devices . Examples of an input device include but are not limited to an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a pointing device a joystick a gamepad an audio input device e.g. a microphone a voice response system etc. a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a touchpad an optical scanner a video capture device e.g. a still camera a video camera touch screen and any combinations thereof. Input device s may be interfaced to bus via any of a variety of interfaces not shown including but not limited to a serial interface a parallel interface a game port a USB interface a FIREWIRE interface a direct interface to bus and any combinations thereof. Input device s may include a touch screen interface that may be a part of or separate from display s discussed further below. Input device s may be utilized as a user selection device for selecting one or more graphical representations in a graphical interface as described above.

A user may also input commands and or other information to computing device via storage device e.g. a removable disk drive a flash drive etc. and or network interface device s . A network interface device such as any one of network interface device s may be utilized for connecting computing system to one or more of a variety of networks such as network and one or more remote devices connected thereto. Examples of a network interface device include but are not limited to a network interface card e.g. a mobile network interface card a LAN card a modem and any combination thereof. Examples of a network include but are not limited to a wide area network e.g. the Internet an enterprise network a local area network a telephone network a data network associated with a telephone voice provider a direct connection between two computing devices and any combinations thereof. A network such as network may employ a wired and or a wireless mode of communication. In general any network topology may be used. Information e.g. data software instructions etc. may be communicated to and or from computing system via network interface device s .

Computing device may further include one or more video display adapter for communicating a displayable image to one or more display devices such as display device s . Examples of a display device include but are not limited to a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT a plasma display a light emitting diode LED display and any combinations thereof. Display adapter s and display device s may be utilized in combination with processor s to provide a graphical representation of a utility resource a location of a land parcel and or a location of an easement to a user. In addition to a display device computing system may include one or more other peripheral output devices including but not limited to an audio speaker a printer and any combinations thereof. Such peripheral output devices may be connected to bus via a peripheral interface . Examples of a peripheral interface include but are not limited to a serial port a USB connection a FIREWIRE connection a THUNDERBOLT connection a parallel connection and any combinations thereof.

The foregoing has been a detailed description of illustrative embodiments of the invention. Various modifications and additions can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Features of each of the various embodiments described above may be combined with features of other described embodiments as appropriate in order to provide a multiplicity of feature combinations in associated new embodiments. Furthermore while the foregoing describes a number of separate embodiments of the apparatus and method of the present invention what has been described herein is merely illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Additionally although the methods herein have been illustrated as being performed in a specific order the ordering is highly variable within ordinary skill to achieve the spot welding placement and display methods systems and software described herein. Accordingly this description is meant to be taken only by way of example and not to otherwise limit the scope of this invention.

