---

title: Laser machining and mechanical control of optical microresonators
abstract: An apparatus and technique are used to fabricate optical microresonators. A fabrication chamber contains all fabrication materials and devices. The microresonators are fabricated from a glass preform mounted on a motorized spindle. A laser is focused onto the preform to partly or fully impinge on the preform. The laser's focus position is controlled by changing the positioning of a lens mounted on a translation stage. Piezoelectric control elements may be mounted to finished microresonators to control of nonlinear parametric oscillation and four-wave mixing effects of the microresonator, control of nonlinear optical stimulated Brillouin scattering and Raman effects of said microresonator and wideband tuning of the frequency spacing between the output modes of a nonlinear-Kerr-effect optical frequency comb generated with said microresonator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09341781&OS=09341781&RS=09341781
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of Commerce The National Institute of Standards & Technology
number: 09341781
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130909
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 698 741 filed on Sep. 10 2012.

The invention described herein was made by an employee of the United States Government and which may be manufactured and used by the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

This invention relates to the field of optical microresonators and more specifically to rapid laser fabrication of optical microresonators

As used herein the term microresonator refers to an optical device with the capability to support whispering gallery modes.

As used herein the term piezoelectric refers to a quality or the effect of inducing mechanical stress in a material by applying an electric voltage which leads to expansion of the material.

As used herein the term shape means the measurable physical characteristics of an optical microresonator including but not limited to thickness diameter and radius of curvature.

Since their inception nearly 25 years ago optical microresonators have had a major impact on many fields related to linear and non linear optics. Optical microresonators are used in photonics technologies for laser stabilization optical filtering and wavelength division multiplexing as well as in nonlinear optics for Raman lasers frequency comb generators and Brillouin lasers. Optical microresonators are useful tools in cavity quantum electrodynamics and cavity optomechanics where they couple mechanical motion with optical fields.

The capability for optical microresonators to achieve this result is due to the phenomena of the whispering gallery mode present in all microresonators. This phenomenon occurs when laser light is coupled into a circular waveguide such as a glass ring or disk. When the light strikes the boundary of the waveguide at a grazing angle it is reflected back into the waveguide. The light wave can make many trips around the waveguide before it is absorbed but only at frequencies of light that fit perfectly into the circumference of the waveguide. If the circumference is a whole number of wavelengths the light waves superimpose perfectly each trip around.

The so called whispering gallery microresonators can even detect and measure individual nanoparticles. This creates a more reliable and accurate detector for nanoparticles and may help establish better safety standards for industrial manufacturing of products containing nanoparticles. Medical applications of whispering gallery microresonators include nanoparticle detection within the body ensuring that nanoparticles are present at treatment or diagnostic sites and absent from areas where they could cause health complications.

Some prior art microresonators are fabricated using advanced clean room techniques and require a large number of fabrication steps including optical and electron beam lithography and several etching steps. Another prior art technique for fabricating microresonators from crystalline materials requires cumbersome manual polishing of the microresonator material which can take several days. These techniques significantly increase the complexity of fabrication end cost and overall time required for fabrication of microresonators creating obstacles to more wide scale use.

Control and stabilization of optical frequency combs enables a range of scientific and technological applications including frequency metrology at high precision spectroscopy of quantum gases and of molecules from visible wavelengths to the far infrared searches for exoplanets and photonic waveform synthesis. Recently a new class of frequency combs based on monolithic microresonators has emerged which offer significantly reduced bulk cost and complexity beyond what is possible with conventional femtosecond laser technology. Such factors stand in the way of next generation applications that will require high performance optical clocks for experiments outside the lab.

In microcomb systems the comb generation relies on parametric conversion provided by nonlinear optical effects and is enabled by high quality factors Q and small mode volumes of microresonators. To date microcombs have been explored with a number of microresonator technologies including microtoroids crystalline microresonators microrings fiber cavities machined disks and disk microresonators. Unique comb spectra have been demonstrated featuring octave spans and a wide range of line spacings.

Microcombs present a challenge for frequency stabilization. Specifically the center frequency of a microcomb spectrum is matched to a pump laser and line spacing must be controlled by changing the microresonator s physical properties. Future metrology applications of microcombs will require stabilization of the line spacing with respect to fixed optical and microwave frequency standards. Hence the key factors for stabilization are line spacing in the measurable 10 s of GHz range low intrinsic fluctuations and the capability for fast modulation. Additionally a threshold power for comb generation in the milliwatt range and the potential for integration with chip based photonic circuits would enable portable applications.

In prior art only thermal control via the power of a pump laser has been used in microresonators. However this technique is not applicable in microresonators with small thermal effect or slow thermal response time.

It is desirable to create optical microresonators quickly and with a minimal number of processing steps.

It is also desirable to stabilize microcomb frequencies in optical microresonators without resorting to thermal control.

The invention is a novel device and technique to fabricate optical microresonators. The microresonators are fabricated from a glass preform mounted on a motor spindle. A laser is set perpendicular to the preforms s axis and focused onto the preform. The laser s focus position is controlled by changing the positioning of a lens mounted on a translation stage. Piezoelectric control elements may be mounted to finished microresonators to control the optical path length of a whispering gallery mode in the microresonators.

For the purpose of promoting an understanding of the present invention references are made in the text to exemplary embodiments of a system for fabricating an optical microresonator only some of which are described herein. It should be understood that no limitations on the scope of the invention are intended by describing these exemplary embodiments. One of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that alternate but functionally equivalent components and methods may be used. The inclusion of additional elements may be deemed readily apparent and obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art. Specific elements disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but rather as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one of ordinary skill in the art to employ the present invention.

It should be understood that the drawings are not necessarily to scale. Instead emphasis has been placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention. Like reference numerals in the various drawings refer to identical or nearly identical structural elements.

Moreover the terms substantially or approximately as used herein may be applied to modify any quantitative representation that could permissibly vary without resulting in a change in the basic function to which it is related.

Preform is a preform of glassy material such as but not limited to fused silica fused quartz erbium doped silica ZBLAN chalcogenide glasses germanium oxide ZBLAN or other glasses with high nonlinear coefficients and glassy materials with sufficient absorption at the wavelength of the laser and low absorption at a different wavelength that can be coupled into a whispering gallery mode. Materials may be application specific. In various embodiments materials may be used which have properties which correspond to the visible ultra violet infrared and telecommunications wavelength ranges. The embodiment in contemplates that the materials used have a measurable optical absorption that may be correlated for a desired wavelength. In various embodiments optical information may be obtained using known material properties and correlating these properties to known wavelength ranges.

Preform can be pre heated in order to avoid re deposition of material during the fabrication process. While in the exemplary embodiment the preform is a solid cylinder other contemplated embodiments may have a different shape or may be hollow and pressurized from the inside in order to induce a bulge when heated. Preform may have an initial diameter within the range of about 0.5 mm to about 10 mm. An optimum diameter range for a preform of fused quartz material is about 2 mm to about 8 mm.

Motorized spindle controls rotational speed of the preform . Rotational speed may be anywhere from about 10 revolutions per minute to 2000 revolutions per minute with an optimum speed of about 800 revolutions per minute. This speed can be adjusted by computer control or manually to control the evaporation and or melting of preform . Motorized spindle must have a low runout or a low change in outer radius of preform from the axis of rotation as preform is rotated. Runout should be below 20 microns to ensure accurate fabrication. In an exemplary embodiment motorized spindle is a ball bearing spindle known in the art. Other exemplary spindles may include but are not limited to an air bearing spindle.

Fabrication laser is a COlaser or another type of laser that operates at a wavelength with sufficient glass preform optical absorption. Fabrication laser can be run in pulsed and or continuous wave mode. Fabrication laser produces a laser beam has a first beam diameter D a horizontal position Xand a vertical position Y. Beam diameter may range from about 30 microns to about 300 microns. Focus and or power of fabrication laser can be changed to control the melting and or evaporation of the material of the preform . The power may range from about 3 W to about 30 W. Additionally laser beam can be spread out into a plane that is non parallel to the rotational axis of preform in order to achieve a more uniform melting and or evaporation.

Focusing lens may be made of but is not limited to a zinc selenide ZnSe material. In use focusing lens is movable from a first position Posalong at least one axis perpendicular to said fabrication laser to a plurality of subsequent positions Pos. Due to this movement D Xand Yare altered proportionately to D Xand Yfor each of said plurality of positions Pos. Changing the position of the laser beam relative to the preform can be controlled for example by changing the position of focusing lens via translation stage . Translation stage may be but is not limited to a manually adjusted stage or a computer controlled motor translation stage. This translation stage may move focusing lens in a sweeping pattern along preform . Sweep speed may range from 2 mm s to 25 microns s.

Imaging system may be but is not limited to a microscope coupled to a CCD camera. The microscope is configured to have a lens which is optimized for a large depth of focus. High image resolution to observe the surface roughness of the microresonators is an important aspect of the imaging system . In other embodiments it may also be advantageous to use a thermal imaging camera such as a microbolometer array.

Imaging system may be operatively coupled to a computer processing component adapted to take measurements of a shape of said glass preform while said laser beam partially or fully impinges on the glass preform . These measurements may be but are not limited to a radius of curvature a thickness and a diameter of said glass preform. These measurements can be compared to measurements previously entered into the computer processing component through a user interface. The computer processing components may also be used to monitor D Xand Yfor each of said plurality of positions Pos.

Once measurements have been made and compared the computer processing component may perform one of two output steps. It may output the current measurements measurement comparison and or initial measurements to a user output to permit the user to manually adjust the fabrication process. The computer processing component may also perform an automated adjustment of laser beam by positioning focusing lens to produce an optical microresonator to correspond to the input values. Once the process is complete it may then power down laser beam .

Alignment laser is contemplated for the exemplary system if fabrication laser beam is not visible to the eye and or camera. Alignment laser beam is combined with laser beam to produce a visible guide to the laser machining. A beam combiner is positioned to combine the two laser beams before they are transmitted by focusing lens . Beam combiner may be but is not limited to a zinc selenide ZnSe combiner.

Fabrication chamber serves to contain all of the above components and shield them from damage or interference during the fabrication process. Fabrication chamber also prevents ablated material from spreading to the surrounding area and causing a safety hazard. Fabrication chamber also allows fabrication of microresonator to be performed in a surrounding gas with low humidity. This avoids a reduction in optical quality factor of the whispering gallery mode due to OH and water absorption bands. The surrounding gas could be but is not limited to nitrogen clean noble gasses or other inert gasses. Additionally fabrication of microresonator can be performed in a surrounding gas that is embedded into the microresonator material in order to change the optical material properties. Furthermore an additional gas blown against the rotating preform can be used to avoid re deposition of evaporated material onto the preform . Finally preform can be immersed in a liquid during laser shaping in order to control the melting and or evaporation process.

During fabrication using the exemplary system of glass preform is preselected from a material having optical properties which correspond to desired wavelength ranges. The preform is then mounted on motorized spindle within fabrication chamber . Coarse alignment of laser beam is supported by alignment laser beam that is superimposed with beam combiner . The laser beams and are focused onto preform with focusing lens that is mounted on a translation stage with micrometer resolution. In order to monitor the fabrication process imaging system is mounted on top of the preform . Fabrication laser is used to evaporate and or melt preform to fabricate a protrusion that supports an optical whispering gallery mode. There is a contrast in the refractive index of the microresonator material and the surrounding area.

In addition to shaping a microresonator the laser can also be used to change the diameter of the preform exemplary embodiments of which are shown in . This is done by turning the preform at approximately 800 RPM and slowly approaching the focusing lens from below while sweeping it back and forth along the preform axis sweep speed 0.3 mm s laser power approximately 30 W . All of the resulting microresonators in have been treated with this method in order to evaporate the surface layer and create a symmetric microresonator with respect to the rotation axis of the motorized spindle . The first two microresonators in have been shrunk more significantly starting from a 2 mm diameter preform down to 170 microns and 860 microns respectively. The final diameter of the preform can be controlled to a level of 10 microns corresponding to an approximately 160 MHz control of the microresonator s free spectral range in a 2 mm diameter device.

As shown in one may observe several orders of Brillouin sidebands. As previously reported in chip based disk microresonators even order sidebands are observed in the forward direction and odd orders of sidebands are scattered in the backward direction with respect to the pump light. The backward directed spectrum in has been obtained through a fiber optic circulator at the input of the tapered optical fiber that was used for coupling.

To generate microcomb spectra as seen in a microresonator fabricated using the above exemplary system is pumped with light coupled via a tapered fiber. The pump laser a tunable semiconductor laser operating near 1560 nm is amplified in erbium fiber and then spectrally filtered to remove noise from amplified spontaneous emission 280 mW of light is available at the input to the tapered fiber. The microresonator is thermally self locked to the pump laser allowing stabilization of the microcomb center to an auxiliary laser which in turn is frequency doubled and referenced to a rubidium Rb D transition at 780 nm. The Rb atoms provide an absolute fractional stability of approximately 10at 1 second but the 1 s residual noise of 

In use a mechanical force from piezoelectric element is used to control the optical path length of a whispering gallery mode in microresonator . The piezoelectric element is used to mechanically influence microresonator inducing a change in the free spectral range of microresonator . Utilizing the Poisson effect axial compression results in an expansion of microresonator and changes its frequency comb. A circuit controlling piezoelectric element has a 150 V maximum output and wide bandwidth modulation capabilities.

Piezoelectric element may apply a mechanical force to a microresonator e.g. by bending and or compressing the microresonator . In this embodiment the piezoelectric element is a flat rectangular element which measures about 3 mm by 3 mm by 2 mm. Piezoelectric element is centered on the microresonator such that motion and force from actuation of piezoelectric element are transmitted axially to microresonator without causing any lateral displacement. In one embodiment a holding structure may be used to connect piezoelectric element and microresonator and ensure effective axial transmission of motion and force.

Piezoelectric element may also apply a mechanical force radially by fitting a piezoelectric element around a rod shaped microresonator permitting it to be compressed or extended. In this embodiment the piezoelectric element is ring shaped and closely fitted around microresonator eliminating the need for a holding structure.

A feedback loop composed of a feedback servo which has proportional and integral gain and a digital phase detector stabilizes the free spectral range of microresonator . An optical frequency comb is generated in microresonator and the beat note between comb modes is measured electronically and stabilized via said feedback to microresonator . The feedback servo compares a reference frequency to the beat note and sends a signal which keeps the frequency and beat note synchronized.

By initiating a phase locked loop using Sand the PZT piezoelectric element vstabilizes with respect to maser . At an averaging time of 1 second the 5 10residual fluctuations of v triangles in are far below the stability of maser . This result signifies that the microcomb closely follows the reference frequency fand attains its stability. An analysis system referenced to maser tests the microcomb s ability to characterize independent microwave frequencies such as f. In the filled points show the combined fluctuations of vand f which are predominately due to f the solid line in shows the Allan deviation of ffrom a separate measurement. These data confirm the expectation from residual measurements that the absolute stability of vis significantly better than the f synthesizer limited 1.5 10at 1 second. The consistent 1 time averaging behavior observed in both residual and absolute measurements is evidence of the phaselocked stabilization. In contrast the open circles in show the free running line spacing.

The line spacing stability of the spectral slices also characterizes the PZT piezoelectric element stabilization. shows the 1 s Allan deviation associated with each 400 s long frequency difference measurement. The stability of vthroughout the C band portion of the comb is 1.5 10 a value dominated by frequency synthesizer f. It appears that the mechanisms responsible for line spacing noise act similarly to different components of the comb and PZT piezoelectric element control can effectively counter them. To understand the residual stability of vthat is possible apart from the noise of f the system was reconfigured to use ffor baseband conversion of both vand the optically filtered v. In this case common fnoise contributions are suppressed when the Ssignals are presented to the noise analyzer. What remains are uncontrolled jitter between the spectral slices and the whole comb and the noise associated with the independent optical and electrical measurement paths including the Symmetricom analyzer. The level of these residual fluctuations is mostly below 10at 1 second see the closed triangles in . This demonstrates that future microcomb experiments could take advantage of frequency references even more stable than a maser.

While optical microresonators have become more and more popular during the last decade most fabrication processes involve expensive clean room equipment and lengthy processing steps. The invention described herein reduces both price and fabrication time for leading edge ultra high Q microresonators that have significant potential in future microphotonic applications.

This system and method of microresonator fabrication is extremely fast and versatile and reproducibly generates optical quality factors exceeding 5 10 and up to 1 10 which is comparable to the highest observed optical quality factors in prior fused silica microresonators. Moreover this system and method allow control of both the fundamental diameter as well as the shape of the microresonator sidewall by controlled ablation of material from the glass preform. In this way microresonators can be manufactured with major diameters ranging from 170 microns up to 8 mm and with sidewall curvature radii between 15 microns and 125 microns. With their ultra high quality factors and fabrication times below 1 minute these microresonators are excellent tools for nonlinear optics experiments including low threshold Raman scattering Brillouin scattering and optical frequency comb generation via cascaded four wave mixing.

Finally microcomb line spacing stabilization using piezoelectric mechanical control is an effective means of line spacing control. This type of mechanical line spacing control can be introduced into a variety of microcomb generators based on for example crystalline microresonators or chip integrated devices via bending of the chip. Using piezoelectric mechanical control microcomb residual noise is demonstrably capable of supporting modern frequency references beyond the 10at 1 s level associated with the best traditional microwave oscillator technology. The piezoelectric element also enables frequency control of nonlinear parametric oscillation and four wave mixing effects of the microresonator control of nonlinear optical stimulated Brillouin scattering and Raman effects of said microresonator and wideband tuning of the frequency spacing between the output modes of a nonlinear Kerr effect optical frequency comb generated with said microresonator

