---

title: Systems and methods for display of supplemental content responsive to location
abstract: The present disclosure provides a system and method for providing a user with supplemental content based on the user's preferences and location. The disclosure provides a computer program that allows users to discover and organize content from a platform that is accessible from a mobile device or computer. Additionally, the disclosure provides a system for determining a user's location while indoors. The system can associate the user's location with specific content or items in a store and provide the user with supplemental content related to those items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08781502&OS=08781502&RS=08781502
owner: Swirl Networks, Inc.
number: 08781502
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131209
---
This application claims priority to Provisional U.S. Patent Application 61 759 641 filed Feb. 1 2013 titled Systems and Methods for Display of Supplemental Content Responsive To Micro Location and U.S. Patent Application 61 822 568 filed May 13 2013 titled Systems and Methods for Display of Supplemental Content Responsive To Micro Location each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The merchandise offered by local and national suppliers is always changing. Customers often spend numerous hours browsing websites magazines and other media outlets before purchasing merchandise but unfortunately many customers still cannot stay abreast of the latest trends and newest products. Additionally local and national suppliers often fail to deliver a personalized shopping experience to consumers.

The present disclosure provides a system and method for providing a user with supplemental content based on the user s preferences and location. Furthermore the disclosure provides a computer program that allows users to discover the latest trends discover new stores and organize their discoveries from a platform that is accessible from a mobile device or computer.

The system provides the user with a platform to store organize and retrieve preferences. The preferences may include preferred styles looks and retailers. Saving the preferences allows the user to create a customized catalog of styles offers and content.

Additionally the system includes one or more beacons that enables the detection of a device s location. Based on the location the system may use the user s stored preferences to provide the user with supplemental content. Because the system can determine the user s location the system can determine what merchandise the user is most likely viewing. Accordingly the system can provide the customer with such supplemental content as matching accessories time sensitive discounts on the item or additional information about the item.

According to one aspect of the disclosure a method for determining a micro location of a device includes receiving by a server a data packet generated by one of a plurality of beacons. The data packet is transmitted from the one of a plurality of beacons to a client device using a first wireless standard and forwarded to the server by the client device using a second wireless standard. The method also includes determining by the server which one of the plurality of beacons generated the data packet and determining the micro location of the one of the plurality of beacons that generated the data packet. The server then associates the micro location of the one of the plurality of beacons that generated the data packet with the client device.

In some implementations the method further includes determining a signal strength of a signal used to transmit the first wireless standard and refining the micro location associated with the client device responsive to the determined signal strength of the signal used to transmit the first wireless standard. The method can also include determining if the client device is within a logical radius of the one of the plurality of beacons that generated the data packet responsive to the determined signal strength of the signal used to transmit the first wireless standard.

In some implementations the method includes transmitting content to the client device using the second wireless standard. The content that is transmitted to the client device can be selected responsive to the micro location associated with the client device. The method can also include transmitting a second data packet to the one of the plurality of beacons that generated the first data packet. The second data packet is transmitted to the client device using the second wireless standard and forwarded to the one of the plurality of beacons that generated the data packet by the client device using the first wireless standard.

In some implementations the first wireless standard is the same as the second wireless standard. The wireless standards can include Bluetooth low energy or the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standard.

According to another aspect of the disclosure a system for determining a micro location of a device includes a processor coupled to a computer readable medium storing processor executable instructions that when executed by the processor causes the processor to receive a data packet generated by one of a plurality of beacons. The data packet is transmitted from the one of a plurality of beacons to a client device using a first wireless standard and forwarded to the server by the client device using a second wireless standard. The processor also determines which one of the plurality of beacons generated the data packet and determines the micro location of the one of the plurality of beacons that generated the data packet. The processor associates the micro location of the one of the plurality of beacons that generated the data packet with the client device.

The system may also be configured to determine a signal strength of a signal used to transmit the first wireless standard and then refine the micro location associated with the client device responsive to the determined signal strength of the signal used to transmit the first wireless standard.

In some implementations the system is configured to determine if the client device is within a logical radius of the one of the plurality of beacons that generated the data packet responsive to the determined signal strength of the signal used to transmit the first wireless standard.

The system can be configured to transmit content to the client device using the second wireless standard. In some implementations the system transmits a second data packet to the one of the plurality of beacons that generated the data packet. The second data packet is transmitted to the client device using the second wireless standard and forwarded to the one of the plurality of beacons that generated the data packet by the client device using the first wireless standard.

In some implementations the first wireless standard is the same as the second wireless standard. The wireless standard can be Bluetooth low energy or the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standard.

For purposes of reading the description of the various embodiments below the following descriptions of the sections of the specification and their respective contents may be helpful.

Section A describes a network environment and computing environment which may be useful for practicing embodiments described herein.

Section B describes embodiments of systems and methods for providing supplemental content to a user based on user preferences and user location.

Section C describes an exemplary implementation of the system and methods for communicating with the beacons.

Section F describes an exemplary implementation of a user interface for interacting with a system for providing supplemental content to a user based on user preferences and user location.

Section G describes an exemplary implementation of a content provider interface and system management interface for managing supplemental content and parameters of a location system.

Prior to discussing specific embodiments of the present solution it may be helpful to describe aspects of the operating environment as well as associated system components e.g. hardware elements in connection with the methods and systems described herein. Referring to an embodiment of a network environment is depicted. In brief overview the network environment includes one or more client devices also generally referred to as local machine s client s client node s client machine s client computer s client device s endpoint s or endpoint node s in communication with one or more servers also generally referred to as server s node or remote machine s via one or more networks . In some embodiments a client device has the capacity to function as both a client node seeking access to resources provided by a server and as a server providing access to hosted resources for other client devices 

Although shows a network between the client devices and the servers the client devices and the servers may be on the same network . In some embodiments there are multiple networks between the client devices and the servers . In one of these embodiments a network not shown may be a private network and a network may be a public network. In another of these embodiments a network may be a private network and a network a public network. In still another of these embodiments networks and may both be private networks.

The network may be connected via wired or wireless links. Wired links may include Digital Subscriber Line DSL coaxial cable lines or optical fiber lines. The wireless links may include BLUETOOTH Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX an infrared channel or satellite band. The wireless links may also include any cellular network standards used to communicate among mobile devices including standards that qualify as 1G 2G 3G or 4G. The network standards may qualify as one or more generation of mobile telecommunication standards by fulfilling a specification or standards such as the specifications maintained by International Telecommunication Union. The 3G standards for example may correspond to the International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 IMT 2000 specification and the 4G standards may correspond to the International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced IMT Advanced specification. Examples of cellular network standards include AMPS GSM GPRS UMTS LTE LTE Advanced Mobile WiMAX and WiMAX Advanced. Cellular network standards may use various channel access methods e.g. FDMA TDMA CDMA or SDMA. In some embodiments different types of data may be transmitted via different links and standards. In other embodiments the same types of data may be transmitted via different links and standards.

The network may be any type and or form of network. The geographical scope of the network may vary widely and the network can be a body area network BAN a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN e.g. Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN or the Internet. The topology of the network may be of any form and may include e.g. any of the following point to point bus star ring mesh or tree. The network may be an overlay network which is virtual and sits on top of one or more layers of other networks . The network may be of any such network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein. The network may utilize different techniques and layers or stacks of protocols including e.g. the Ethernet protocol the internet protocol suite TCP IP the ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode technique the SONET Synchronous Optical Networking protocol or the SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy protocol. The TCP IP internet protocol suite may include application layer transport layer internet layer including e.g. IPv6 or the link layer. The network may be a type of a broadcast network a telecommunications network a data communication network or a computer network.

In some embodiments the system may include multiple logically grouped servers . In one of these embodiments the logical group of servers may be referred to as a server farm or a machine farm . In another of these embodiments the servers may be geographically dispersed. In other embodiments a machine farm may be administered as a single entity. In still other embodiments the machine farm includes a plurality of machine farms . The servers within each machine farm can be heterogeneous one or more of the servers or machines can operate according to one type of operating system platform e.g. WINDOWS NT manufactured by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. while one or more of the other servers can operate on according to another type of operating system platform e.g. Unix Linux or Mac OS X .

In one embodiment servers in the machine farm may be stored in high density rack systems along with associated storage systems and located in an enterprise data center. In this embodiment consolidating the servers in this way may improve system manageability data security the physical security of the system and system performance by locating servers and high performance storage systems on localized high performance networks. Centralizing the servers and storage systems and coupling them with advanced system management tools allows more efficient use of server resources.

The servers of each machine farm do not need to be physically proximate to another server in the same machine farm . Thus the group of servers logically grouped as a machine farm may be interconnected using a wide area network WAN connection or a metropolitan area network MAN connection. For example a machine farm may include servers physically located in different continents or different regions of a continent country state city campus or room. Data transmission speeds between servers in the machine farm can be increased if the servers are connected using a local area network LAN connection or some form of direct connection. Additionally a heterogeneous machine farm may include one or more servers operating according to a type of operating system while one or more other servers execute one or more types of hypervisors rather than operating systems. In these embodiments hypervisors may be used to emulate virtual hardware partition physical hardware virtualize physical hardware and execute virtual machines that provide access to computing environments allowing multiple operating systems to run concurrently on a host computer. Native hypervisors may run directly on the host computer. Hypervisors may include VMware ESX ESXi manufactured by VMWare Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. the Xen hypervisor an open source product whose development is overseen by Citrix Systems Inc. the HYPER V hypervisors provided by Microsoft or others. Hosted hypervisors may run within an operating system on a second software level. Examples of hosted hypervisors may include VMware Workstation and VIRTUALBOX.

Management of the machine farm may be de centralized. For example one or more servers may comprise components subsystems and modules to support one or more management services for the machine farm . In one of these embodiments one or more servers provide functionality for management of dynamic data including techniques for handling failover data replication and increasing the robustness of the machine farm . Each server may communicate with a persistent store and in some embodiments with a dynamic store.

Server may be a file server application server web server proxy server appliance network appliance gateway gateway server virtualization server deployment server SSL VPN server or firewall. In one embodiment the server may be referred to as a remote machine or a node. In another embodiment a plurality of nodes may be in the path between any two communicating servers.

Referring to a cloud computing environment is depicted. A cloud computing environment may provide client device with one or more resources provided by a network environment. The cloud computing environment may include one or more client devices in communication with the cloud over one or more networks . Client devices may include e.g. thick clients thin clients and zero clients. A thick client may provide at least some functionality even when disconnected from the cloud or servers . A thin client or a zero client may depend on the connection to the cloud or server to provide functionality. A zero client may depend on the cloud or other networks or servers to retrieve operating system data for the client device. The cloud may include back end platforms e.g. servers storage server farms or data centers.

The cloud may be public private or hybrid. Public clouds may include public servers that are maintained by third parties to the client devices or the owners of the clients. The servers may be located off site in remote geographical locations as disclosed above or otherwise. Public clouds may be connected to the servers over a public network. Private clouds may include private servers that are physically maintained by client devices or owners of clients. Private clouds may be connected to the servers over a private network . Hybrid clouds may include both the private and public networks and servers .

The cloud may also include a cloud based delivery e.g. Software as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service PaaS and Infrastructure as a Service IaaS . IaaS may refer to a user renting the use of infrastructure resources that are needed during a specified time period. IaaS providers may offer storage networking servers or virtualization resources from large pools allowing the users to quickly scale up by accessing more resources as needed. Examples of IaaS include AMAZON WEB SERVICES provided by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash. RACKSPACE CLOUD provided by Rackspace US Inc. of San Antonio Tex. Google Compute Engine provided by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. or RIGHTSCALE provided by RightScale Inc. of Santa Barbara Calif. PaaS providers may offer functionality provided by IaaS including e.g. storage networking servers or virtualization as well as additional resources such as e.g. the operating system middleware or runtime resources. Examples of PaaS include WINDOWS AZURE provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Google App Engine provided by Google Inc. and HEROKU provided by Heroku Inc. of San Francisco Calif. SaaS providers may offer the resources that PaaS provides including storage networking servers virtualization operating system middleware or runtime resources. In some embodiments SaaS providers may offer additional resources including e.g. data and application resources. Examples of SaaS include GOOGLE APPS provided by Google Inc. SALESFORCE provided by Salesforce.com Inc. of San Francisco Calif. or OFFICE 365 provided by Microsoft Corporation. Examples of SaaS may also include data storage providers e.g. DROPBOX provided by Dropbox Inc. of San Francisco Calif. Microsoft SKYDRIVE provided by Microsoft Corporation Google Drive provided by Google Inc. or Apple ICLOUD provided by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif.

Client devices may access IaaS resources with one or more IaaS standards including e.g. Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud EC2 Open Cloud Computing Interface OCCI Cloud Infrastructure Management Interface CIMI or OpenStack standards. Some IaaS standards may allow clients access to resources over HTTP and may use Representational State Transfer REST protocol or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . Client devices may access PaaS resources with different PaaS interfaces. Some PaaS interfaces use HTTP packages standard Java APIs JavaMail API Java Data Objects JDO Java Persistence API JPA Python APIs web integration APIs for different programming languages including e.g. Rack for Ruby WSGI for Python or PSGI for Perl or other APIs that may be built on REST HTTP XML or other protocols. Client devices may access SaaS resources through the use of web based user interfaces provided by a web browser e.g. GOOGLE CHROME Microsoft INTERNET EXPLORER or Mozilla Firefox provided by Mozilla Foundation of Mountain View Calif. . Client devices may also access SaaS resources through smartphone or tablet applications including e.g. Salesforce Sales Cloud or Google Drive app. Client devices may also access SaaS resources through the client operating system including e.g. Windows file system for DROPBOX.

In some embodiments access to IaaS PaaS or SaaS resources may be authenticated. For example a server or authentication server may authenticate a user via security certificates HTTPS or API keys. API keys may include various encryption standards such as e.g. Advanced Encryption Standard AES . Data resources may be sent over Transport Layer Security TLS or Secure Sockets Layer SSL .

The client device and server may be deployed as and or executed on any type and form of computing device e.g. a computer network device or appliance capable of communicating on any type and form of network and performing the operations described herein. depict block diagrams of a computing device useful for practicing an embodiment of the client device or a server . As shown in each computing device includes a central processing unit and a main memory unit . As shown in a computing device may include a storage device an installation device a network interface an I O controller display devices a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse. The storage device may include without limitation an operating system software and a software of a Pinpoint System Server . As shown in each computing device may also include additional optional elements e.g. a memory port a bridge one or more input output devices generally referred to using reference numeral and a cache memory in communication with the central processing unit .

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many embodiments the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit e.g. those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Ill. the ARM processor and TEGRA system on a chip SoC manufactured by Nvidia of Santa Clara Calif. the POWER7 processor those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. The computing device may be based on any of these processors or any other processor capable of operating as described herein. The central processing unit may utilize instruction level parallelism thread level parallelism different levels of cache and multi core processors. A multi core processor may include two or more processing units on a single computing component. Examples of a multi core processors include the AMD PHENOM IIX2 INTEL CORE i5 and INTEL CORE i7.

Main memory unit may include one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor . Main memory unit may be volatile and faster than storage memory. Main memory units may be Dynamic random access memory DRAM or any variants including static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM REDO DRAM Single Data Rate Synchronous DRAM SDR SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Extreme Data Rate DRAM XDR DRAM . In some embodiments the main memory or the storage may be non volatile e.g. non volatile read access memory NVRAM flash memory non volatile static RAM nvSRAM Ferroelectric RAM FeRAM Magnetoresistive RAM MRAM Phase change memory PRAM conductive bridging RAM CBRAM Silicon Oxide Nitride Oxide Silicon SONOS Resistive RAM RRAM Racetrack Nano RAM NRAM or Millipede memory. The main memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with main memory via a system bus described in more detail below . depicts an embodiment of a computing device in which the processor communicates directly with main memory via a memory port . For example in the main memory may be DRDRAM.

A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices may include keyboards mice trackpads trackballs touchpads touch mice multi touch touchpads and touch mice microphones multi array microphones drawing tablets cameras single lens reflex camera SLR digital SLR DSLR CMOS sensors accelerometers infrared optical sensors pressure sensors magnetometer sensors angular rate sensors depth sensors proximity sensors ambient light sensors gyroscopic sensors or other sensors. Output devices may include video displays graphical displays speakers headphones inkjet printers laser printers and 3D printers.

Devices may include a combination of multiple input or output devices including e.g. Microsoft KINECT Nintendo Wiimote for the WII Nintendo WII U GAMEPAD or Apple IPHONE. Some devices allow gesture recognition inputs through combining some of the inputs and outputs. Some devices provides for facial recognition which may be utilized as an input for different purposes including authentication and other commands. Some devices provides for voice recognition and inputs including e.g. Microsoft KINECT SIRI for IPHONE by Apple Google Now or Google Voice Search.

Additional devices have both input and output capabilities including e.g. haptic feedback devices touchscreen displays or multi touch displays. Touchscreen multi touch displays touchpads touch mice or other touch sensing devices may use different technologies to sense touch including e.g. capacitive surface capacitive projected capacitive touch PCT in cell capacitive resistive infrared waveguide dispersive signal touch DST in cell optical surface acoustic wave SAW bending wave touch BWT or force based sensing technologies. Some multi touch devices may allow two or more contact points with the surface allowing advanced functionality including e.g. pinch spread rotate scroll or other gestures. Some touchscreen devices including e.g. Microsoft PIXELSENSE or Multi Touch Collaboration Wall may have larger surfaces such as on a table top or on a wall and may also interact with other electronic devices. Some I O devices display devices or group of devices may be augment reality devices. The I O devices may be controlled by an I O controller as shown in . The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore an I O device may also provide storage and or an installation medium for the computing device . In still other embodiments the computing device may provide USB connections not shown to receive handheld USB storage devices. In further embodiments an I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus e.g. a USB bus a SCSI bus a FireWire bus an Ethernet bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus a Fibre Channel bus or a Thunderbolt bus.

In some embodiments display devices may be connected to I O controller . Display devices may include e.g. liquid crystal displays LCD thin film transistor LCD TFT LCD blue phase LCD electronic papers e ink displays flexile displays light emitting diode displays LED digital light processing DLP displays liquid crystal on silicon LCOS displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED displays liquid crystal laser displays time multiplexed optical shutter TMOS displays or 3D displays. Examples of 3D displays may use e.g. stereoscopy polarization filters active shutters or autostereoscopy. Display devices may also be a head mounted display HMD . In some embodiments display devices or the corresponding I O controllers may be controlled through or have hardware support for OPENGL or DIRECTX API or other graphics libraries.

In some embodiments the computing device may include or connect to multiple display devices which each may be of the same or different type and or form. As such any of the I O devices and or the I O controller may include any type and or form of suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software to support enable or provide for the connection and use of multiple display devices by the computing device . For example the computing device may include any type and or form of video adapter video card driver and or library to interface communicate connect or otherwise use the display devices . In one embodiment a video adapter may include multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices . In other embodiments the computing device may include multiple video adapters with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices . In some embodiments any portion of the operating system of the computing device may be configured for using multiple displays . In other embodiments one or more of the display devices may be provided by one or more other computing devices or connected to the computing device via the network . In some embodiments software may be designed and constructed to use another computer s display device as a second display device for the computing device . For example in one embodiment an Apple iPad may connect to a computing device and use the display of the device as an additional display screen that may be used as an extended desktop. One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and embodiments that a computing device may be configured to have multiple display devices 

Referring again to the computing device may comprise a storage device e.g. one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks for storing an operating system or other related software and for storing application software programs such as any program related to the Pinpoint System Server . Examples of storage device include e.g. hard disk drive HDD optical drive including CD drive DVD drive or BLU RAY drive solid state drive SSD USB flash drive or any other device suitable for storing data. Some storage devices may include multiple volatile and non volatile memories including e.g. solid state hybrid drives that combine hard disks with solid state cache. Some storage device may be non volatile mutable or read only. Some storage device may be internal and connect to the computing device via a bus . Some storage device may be external and connect to the computing device via a I O device that provides an external bus. Some storage device may connect to the computing device via the network interface over a network including e.g. the Remote Disk for MACBOOK AIR by Apple. Some client devices may not require a non volatile storage device and may be thin clients or zero client devices . Some storage device may also be used as an installation device and may be suitable for installing software and programs. Additionally the operating system and the software can be run from a bootable medium for example a bootable CD e.g. KNOPPIX a bootable CD for GNU Linux that is available as a GNU Linux distribution from knoppix.net.

Client device may also install software or application from an application distribution platform. Examples of application distribution platforms include the App Store for iOS provided by Apple Inc. the Mac App Store provided by Apple Inc. GOOGLE PLAY for Android OS provided by Google Inc. Chrome Webstore for CHROME OS provided by Google Inc. and Amazon Appstore for Android OS and KINDLE FIRE provided by Amazon.com Inc. An application distribution platform may facilitate installation of software on a client device . An application distribution platform may include a repository of applications on a server or a cloud which the client devices may access over a network . An application distribution platform may include application developed and provided by various developers. A user of a client device may select purchase and or download an application via the application distribution platform.

Furthermore the computing device may include a network interface to interface to the network through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 Gigabit Ethernet Infiniband broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM Gigabit Ethernet Ethernet over SONET ADSL VDSL BPON GPON fiber optical including FiOS wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. Connections can be established using a variety of communication protocols e.g. TCP IP Ethernet ARCNET SONET SDH Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IEEE 802.11a b g n ac CDMA GSM WiMax and direct asynchronous connections . In one embodiment the computing device communicates with other computing devices via any type and or form of gateway or tunneling protocol e.g. Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS or the Citrix Gateway Protocol manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card EXPRESSCARD network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein.

A computing device of the sort depicted in may operate under the control of an operating system which controls scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the MICROSOFT WINDOWS operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the MAC OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include but are not limited to WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS Server 2012 WINDOWS CE WINDOWS Phone WINDOWS XP WINDOWS VISTA and WINDOWS 7 WINDOWS RT and WINDOWS 8 all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MAC OS and iOS manufactured by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and Linux a freely available operating system e.g. Linux Mint distribution distro or Ubuntu distributed by Canonical Ltd. of London United Kingdom or Unix or other Unix like derivative operating systems and Android designed by Google of Mountain View Calif. among others. Some operating systems including e.g. the CHROME OS by Google may be used on zero clients or thin clients including e.g. CHROMEBOOKS.

The computer system can be any workstation telephone desktop computer laptop or notebook computer netbook ULTRABOOK tablet server handheld computer mobile telephone smartphone or other portable telecommunications device media playing device a gaming system mobile computing device or any other type and or form of computing telecommunications or media device that is capable of communication. The computer system has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein. In some embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device. The Samsung GALAXY smartphones e.g. operate under the control of Android operating system developed by Google Inc. GALAXY smartphones receive input via a touch interface.

In some embodiments the computing device is a gaming system. For example the computer system may comprise a PLAYSTATION 3 or PERSONAL PLAYSTATION PORTABLE PSP or a PLAYSTATION VITA device manufactured by the Sony Corporation of Tokyo Japan a NINTENDO DS NINTENDO 3DS NINTENDO WII or a NINTENDO WIT U device manufactured by Nintendo Co. Ltd. of Kyoto Japan an XBOX 360 device manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

In some embodiments the computing device is a digital audio player such as the Apple IPOD IPOD Touch and IPOD NANO lines of devices manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. Some digital audio players may have other functionality including e.g. a gaming system or any functionality made available by an application from a digital application distribution platform. For example the IPOD Touch may access the Apple App Store. In some embodiments the computing device is a portable media player or digital audio player supporting file formats including but not limited to MP3 WAV M4A AAC WMA Protected AAC AIFF Audible audiobook Apple Lossless audio file formats and .mov .m4v and .mp4MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 4 AVC video file formats.

In some embodiments the computing device is a tablet e.g. the IPAD line of devices by Apple GALAXY TAB family of devices by Samsung or KINDLE FIRE by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash. In other embodiments the computing device is a eBook reader e.g. the KINDLE family of devices by Amazon.com or NOOK family of devices by Barnes Noble Inc. of New York City N.Y.

In some embodiments the communications device includes a combination of devices e.g. a smartphone combined with a digital audio player or portable media player. For example one of these embodiments is a smartphone e.g. the IPHONE family of smartphones manufactured by Apple Inc. a Samsung GALAXY family of smartphones manufactured by Samsung Inc or a Motorola DROID family of smartphones. In yet another embodiment the communications device is a laptop or desktop computer equipped with a web browser and a microphone and speaker system e.g. a telephony headset. In these embodiments the communications devices are web enabled and can receive and initiate phone calls. In some embodiments a laptop or desktop computer is also equipped with a webcam or other video capture device that enables video chat and video call.

In some embodiments the status of one or more machines in the network is monitored generally as part of network management. In one of these embodiments the status of a machine may include an identification of load information e.g. the number of processes on the machine CPU and memory utilization of port information e.g. the number of available communication ports and the port addresses or of session status e.g. the duration and type of processes and whether a process is active or idle . In another of these embodiments this information may be identified by a plurality of metrics and the plurality of metrics can be applied at least in part towards decisions in load distribution network traffic management and network failure recovery as well as any aspects of operations of the present solution described herein. Aspects of the operating environments and components described above will become apparent in the context of the systems and methods disclosed herein.

The present disclosure is directed towards systems and methods for providing supplemental content to a user based on the user s location and preferences. In some implementations the system and methods described herein are implemented with the computer and network environment of . As described herein a user s location can include the user s micro location within the premises of a store building or outdoor location. For example the system may narrow the location of a client device to a specific section within a store.

While the system and methods have been particularly shown and described with reference to specific implementations it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the system and methods described in this disclosure.

The PN can also include a plurality of client devices each in use by a user . The client devices may include a camera a GPS module and a wireless module . The PN also includes at least one beacon . The beacon includes a wireless module for communicating with the client device or PSS an anti spoofing module and a battery . Additionally the PN includes at least one content provider that provides supplemental content to the PSS . The PSS delivers supplemental content to the plurality of client devices . The above described components of the PN are connected by a network .

In some implementations the content provider a merchant that sells merchandise or more generically referred to as content to customers or users. In some implementations the supplemental content is associated with the content for sell by the content provider . For example the content provider may be a clothing store selling content such as women s and men s fashions. In this example the supplemental content may include information or other digital content related to the fashions for sell by the clothing store. The content provider may place a beacon near specific content in the content provider s store. For example the content provider may place a first beacon near a display of sweaters and a second beacon near a rack of women s jeans. In other implementations the beacon may be also placed near a non content item such as a door cash register or be positioned such that the beacon is near a plurality of content items. The PSS may deliver supplemental content to a client device when the PSS determines the client device is within a predetermined proximity of a beacon .

The beacon includes a wireless module an anti spoofing module and a battery . The wireless module may be a WIFI radio a Bluetooth radio RFID tag and or similar wireless transmitter or receiver. In some implementations the wireless module is only a wireless transmitter. For example the beacon may broadcast a signal that is detected by the client device but may not receive a signal from the client device . The wireless module may be a low power wireless module such as a Bluetooth 4.0 i.e. low energy radio. Additionally or alternatively the wireless module may cycle on and off to conserve energy. In some implementations the cycling may occur based on time of day or the detection of a nearby user. The beacon may be configured to only broadcast a wireless signal during business hours. In some implementations the wireless module emits a wireless signal that covers a predetermined proximity zone. As described in greater detail below the beacon may broadcast a unique beacon identification number over the wireless signal which is detected by the client device . In some implementations the size and shape of the proximity zone may be adjusted. For example the size of the proximity zone may be adjusted by altering the power level of the wireless signal. For example the power level of the wireless signal may be set to one of 4 dB 0 dB 6 dB or 23 dB.

In some implementations the beacon identification number is a unique identifier number that may not be detected if one is outside the defined proximity zone. In some implementations a plurality of beacons may be daisy chained together such that they create a unified proximity zone. For example a content provider may wish to have a single proximity zone cover an entire store rather than having micro proximity zones distributed throughout the store. In this example each of the daisy changed Beacons broadcast the same Beacon identification number.

Only able to detect the beacon identification number within the proximity zone allows the PSS to determine a location of the client device . For example and as described in greater detail below if the client is detecting the beacon identification number 39475423 then the client must be within the proximity zone of the beacon having the identification number of 39475423. Accordingly the PSS may associate the location of the beacon with the client device .

In some implementations the wireless module allows the beacon to communicate directly with the PSS via the network . In other implementations as in the implementation of the beacon does not communicate directly with the PSS but rather passes data to the client device which then forwards the data to the PSS . The method of forwarding data from the Beacon to the PSS via a client device is discussed in greater detail in relation to .

In some implementations the data transmitted from a beacon to the client device or PSS is encrypted for example with 16 byte AES encryption. The data may include an AES key identifier a beacon ID a MAC address the current battery level beacon uptime data random data or any combination thereof. The beacon ID may be randomly generated and in some implementations updated at specific intervals. For example the beacon ID may be generated using a function e.g. a hash function which generates a new beacon ID at periodic intervals. The PSS may have the same hash function and may update its record of the beacon IDs as the beacons updates their beacon IDs. In some implementations updating the beacon ID is done to prevent spoofing of the beacon and it s data. An example method of encrypting the communication within the PN is described in greater detail in relation to .

As described above the beacon can include an anti spoofing module . The anti spoofing module may ensure the data transmitted from the beacon to the PSS is authentic. As discussed below in some implementations the PSS may provide a user with supplemental content when the user s client device is within a predetermined proximity zone of a beacon . The supplemental content may be a coupon loyalty points or other benefit. Accordingly a content provider may desire to ensure the client device is actually located in the expected location before providing supplemental content to the client device . The anti spoofing module may use the AES key identifier location ID battery level beacon up time or a combination thereof to ensure the authenticity of transmitted data. For example the data packets transmitted to the PSS may be encrypted and include the current battery level and up time of the beacon generating the data packets.

The anti spoofing module may check that the battery level and up time indicated in the data packets correspond to expected values. For example if the anti spoofing module receives a data packet that indicates the up time of a Beacon should be 1 day 3 hours and 15 minutes but receives a data packet that indicates the up time is four days the anti spoofing module may determine that someone copied the data packets and is attempting to rebroadcast them without revisiting the store. In some implementations the anti spoofing module may use a GPS radio or other location service to determine if the data packets are arriving from a location generally associated with the beacon . In yet other implementations the anti spoofing module may provide the client device with a password or other unique identification number such that the client device may verify to the PSS that the client device is near the beacon . The password may be a rolling password. In some implementations if spoofing is detected the content provider housing the beacon and or the PSS may be notified. A beacon that is the tampered with or spoofed may be remotely disabled.

In the user interacts with a client device . As described above in greater detail in relation to the client may be but is not limited to a smart phone a tablet computer a laptop and or a desktop computer. In some implementations the client device includes a GPS module . The GPS module detects the current location of the client device and may transmit the detected location to the PSS via the network . The anti spoofing module in the beacon and or in the PSS modules and respectively may receive the detected location and verify the client device is near the reported location of the beacon. For example the client device may transmit the current location of the client device to the anti spoofing module of the PSS . The PSS may receive a unique beacon identification number. Referencing the beacon location database the unique beacon identification number transmitted to the PSS may indicate the beacon should be located in a particular store of a shopping mall. The current location determined by the gps module may indicate that the client device is in the corresponding shopping mall and accordingly the client device may be authenticated as being near the beacon .

The client device may include a camera . The user may use the camera to capture images of merchandise or other content the user prefers. For example if a user finds a jacket that the user may want to purchase at a later date the user may use the camera to capture an image of the jacket. In some implementations the captured image may remain on the client device and in other implementations they are transmitted to the PSS to be stored in the user preference database .

User preferences may include but are not limited to preferred content providers preferred content preferred colors preferred price points locations preferred looks preferred fashion styles preferred users or any combination thereof. For example using the user interface discussed below the user may select a jacket the user likes. The jacket may then be saved to the user s preferences. In some implementations the user may view or change the stored user preferences via the PSS . Responsive to those preferences the PSS may deliver supplemental content to the user. For example after a user has stored a number of preferences the PSS may send the user a recommendation for pants that match the jacket the user is viewing. The pants may be in a color and a price point the user indicated that she liked in her saved preferences.

The client device may also include a wireless module . In some implementations the wireless module may detect the broadcast from the Beacon . As described above the broadcast may include the unique beacon identification number and other data. The other data may include a password location data system status data system statistics or any combination thereof. For example the beacon may include current battery levels in the data broadcast. In some implementations the data packet in the broadcast may be only a few bits in size. Using the wireless module the client device may transmit the data packet to the PSS on behalf of the beacon . In some implementations the client device forwards the data to the PSS without reading or decrypting the data within the data packets.

Still referring to and in more detail the PSS includes a plurality of modules and databases. In some implementations the PSS is a computer program running on a central server. In other implementations the PSS is a distributed system running on a plurality of computer servers. For example the PSS may be replicated across a plurality of servers or specific functions of the PSS may be executed on specific computer servers.

The PSS may include an anti spoofing module . Discussed in greater detail with the anti spoofing module of the beacon the anti spoofing module ensures the authenticity of the data received from the client device and or Beacons . For example the PSS may receive data from the client device that includes the up time of a beacon . The anti spoofing module may compare the up time with an expected up time to ensure the data is authentic. For example if the up time is only 470 hours when it should be 1 213 hours the anti spoofing module may determine that the data was recorded and a third party is attempting to spoof the data to receive supplemental content such as reward points from the PSS .

The logistics module of the PSS may provide the content provider with logistical data. For example the logistics module may monitor the number of client devices that detect a specific beacon identification number over a given period of time and determine the content or merchandise near those beacons is more popular than the content near beacons whose beacon identification numbers are not detected as often over the same given time period. The logistics module may also monitor customer flow patterns through the content providers. The content providers may make decisions on where to place content based on the data returned from the logistics module . For example a content provider may place popular content near the back of the store such that a user will have to pass less popular content to get to the more popular content.

The PSS also includes an interface . The interface is discussed in greater detail in relation to the exemplary embodiments described in Section C. Briefly the interface provides a means for a user and or content provider to interact with the PSS . In some implementations the interface is a plurality of web pages. In other implementations the interface is a computer program running on the PSS and or on a client device . There may be multiple versions of the user interface . For example there may be one user interface for content providers and another user interface for users . In certain implementations the user interface that is displayed to the user may be responsive to the type of client device used to view the user interface . For example the user interface may appear different when a user views the interface on a smart phone as compared to if the user views the interface on a personal computer.

The first type of interface a content provider interface also referred to as a console may be the interface presented to a content provider upon logging into the PSS . The content provider interface may allow a content provider to upload to the content database descriptions and details of supplemental content images of content availability of content or any combination thereof. Additionally the content provider may upload coupons and or benefits to the content database via the content provider interface. For example the content provider may upload a benefit to the content database that indicates the content provider will be having a sale on Memorial Day. Accordingly users viewing the user interface may be presented with the details of the Memorial Day sale. The console for a content provider is described below in relation to Section G.

In other implementations the PSS may provide through the user interface a platform for the user to barter or haggle over the price of a piece of supplemental content with the content provider. In these implementations the content provider may use the content provider interface to define minimum acceptable prices for supplemental content in the content database or to define other rules that may govern the bartering and haggling process.

In another implementation the content provider interfaces may allow for the control configuration and management of beacons . Beacon management functions of the content provider interface may include such functions as updating firmware configuring the hours of operation for the beacon setting a logical radius updating the PSS as to the physical location of the beacon and checking beacon settings statistics and current status e.g. battery life . The console for PSS administration is described further in relation to Section G.

In some implementations the content provider interface is displayed via a computer program or webpage that interacts directly with the PSS which in turn transmits the above described configurations and settings to the beacon . In other implementations the content provider interface is displayed by a program or webpage executing on a mobile device. The mobile device may then allow for the direct configuration of the beacon . For example the mobile device may connect directly to the beacon by Bluetooth to deliver new configuration files firmware updates and or settings to the beacon .

The second type of interface the user interface may be provided to the user when interacting with the PSS . The exemplary embodiments discussed in Section F provide a detailed description of the user interface. Briefly the user interface may allow the user to view the supplemental content available by the plurality of content providers . For example the user interface may allow the user to view or search for black high heels available for sale by one or more stores using the PSS . Other searches performed by the use aim include searching for content within a specific location distance from a specific location price range color size or any combination thereof.

In some implementations the user may input preferences to the PSS via the user interface. These preferences may be saved into the user preference database . The preferences may be directly input into PSS e.g. the user may indicate they prefer Nike tennis shoes or the PSS may infer the user s preferences. In inferring the user s preferences the user may like or select a plurality of content items. The PSS may then determine similarities between the selected content to determine the user s preferences. In some implementations selecting a preferred content item may include selecting the image of the content item as it is displayed to the user via the user interface . In yet other implementations the user may upload images captured with the camera to user preference database . In yet other implementations a first user may use selected content of a second user to augment the preferences of the first user .

The PSS also includes an analysis module . In some implementations responsive to the preferences of the user stored in the user preference database the analysis module provides the user with supplemental content the user may like. The supplemental content provided to the user may include coupons benefits links to other content or any combination thereof. In some implementations the selection of the supplemental content is responsive to the location of the client device . For example when a user enters the proximity zone of a beacon and the PSS determines the client device is at a specific location the analysis module may then analyze the user preferences stored in the user preference database and provide supplemental content for the user responsive to the user s preferences and the current location of the user. For example the analysis module may determine a user is viewing sweaters within a specific store. Analyzing that a high percentage of the captures images of clothes the user uploaded to the PSS include green articles of clothing the analysis module may suggest to the user to view the content provider s selection of green sweaters located at the front of the store. In another example the supplemental content selected by the analysis module may be responsive to only the user s current location. In some implementations selected supplemental content is associated with a competitor of content item near the user. For example when viewing a pair of pants in a first store the analysis module may send the user a coupon for a pair of similar pants at a second store.

As described herein the supplemental content selected by the analysis module can include coupons ads product information or any combination thereof. In certain implementations the supplemental content is time sensitive. For example a coupon may be issued by the analysis module and only be valid for the next 10 minutes. In some implementations the analysis module issues a time sensitive coupons when it has determined the user may be uncertain if they wish to purchase the content item near the user. For example the analysis module may determine that the user has lingered in the vicinity of the content item for a set period of time e.g. five minutes and determined the user is unsure of the purchase. The analysis module may provide the user with a coupon in order to persuade the user to purchase the content item.

In yet other implementations the analysis module may incorporate the data of the content database and the content provider database to provide the client device with supplemental content that is information about content provided by a competing content provider . For example the analysis module may determine that a client device is in a store viewing shirts. Incorporating the data of the content provider database and the content database the analysis module may provide the user with supplemental content that provides the user with additional information about the shirt near the user. The information may include availability sizing information information about similar content items or general information about the product.

In some implementations the analysis module provides the user with information when the client device is not in the proximity zone of a beacon . For example the analysis module may determine that the user has uploaded a number of jackets and determines the user may be actively looking for a new winter coat. The analysis module may search the content database and the content provider database to determine if any content providers in the general area currently have sales on jackets. In yet other implementations the content providers may place bids on the opportunity to provide the user with a coupon or supplemental content. Ad auctions are described further in relation to Section H.

In some implementations the beacons can be placed in a location without providing the beacons with a power connector or a connection to the network . For example and as described above the beacons can include a battery that is configured to power the beacons for a least 1 month 3 months 6 months or a year without needing to be replaced or recharged. In some implementations the beacons do not have a direct connection to the network . As described further below in these implementations the beacons can communicate with the PSS through the data connection of a client device . This can allow a content provider store owner to place a beacon without first setting up a network within the store or running power to the location where the store owner wishes to place the beacon .

As described above the beacons transmits a wireless signal such as a Bluetooth signal. The greatest distance the wireless signal may be received by a client device is the physical radius of the beacon . In some implementations a logical radius may also be set for the beacon . The logical radius may be any radius within the physical radius . In some implementations more than one logical radius may be set for each beacon . In some implementations crossing a logical radius may cause an event such as the delivery of supplemental content to occur. Client devices in different sections of the beacon s broadcast range may be treated differently. For example different content may be delivered to client devices within the logical radius as compared to client devices outside the logical radius but within the physical radius . In some implementations the logical radius may be set via the PSS . Although the beacon is represented as broadcasting a wireless signal in an omnidirectional manner one of average skill in the art will recognize that the wireless signal may be tuned such that the wireless signal is not omnidirectional.

As described above in some implementations the beacon does not communicate directly with the PSS . The beacon may communicate with the PSS via at least one client device . In some implementations the beacons and a client device may communicate with one another using a first wireless standard and then the client device and the PSS may communicate with a second communication standard. For example the beacon may transmit a packet containing data which is received by the client device using the low power Bluetooth standard. The client device may then forward the data packet to the PSS using a second communication standard. For example the client device may use its cellular connection or a Wi Fi connection to forward the data packet to the PSS . In some implementations the device retransmits the data packet to the PSS without accessing reading and or modifying the data packet. In some implementations the device may append a device identifier such as a MAC address to the data packet.

The data packet can include information related to the beacon identification number or other data pertaining to the beacon . For example the beacon may relay information about its current power levels or conditions to the PSS via the data packets. In some implementations the beacon transmits the data packet to a plurality of client devices for forwarding to the PSS .

In some implementations the PSS may transmit data back to the beacon through the client device . For example the PSS may select a client device within the physical radius or logical radius of the beacon . The PSS may then send a data packet to the client device using the second transmission protocol. The client device may then forward the data packet to the beacon using first data transmission standard. The PSS may transmit the data packet to a plurality of client devices within the physical radius . The redundancy of the data transmission to the beacon may ensure the data still arrives to the beacon even if the first client device leaves the physical radius before the data is fully transferred to the beacon . For example if client device and client device both receive the data packet from the PSS if client device leaves the physical radius before the data packet can be forwarded to the beacon client device can still forward the data packet to the beacon . In some implementations the data that the PSS transmits to a beacon can include configuration files or firmware updates.

As set forth above at step the client device receives a beacon identification number. In some implementations the beacon identification number is received by the wireless module of the client device . In other implementations the client may receive the beacon identification number by taking a picture of a QR code placed on or the beacon or through some other non wireless transmission means. For example the user may manually enter the beacon identification number into a computer programming running on the client device . As discussed in relation to the beacon identification number may be accompanied by a data packet that may include beacon statistics or other data.

At step the client device transmits the beacon identification number to the PSS . In some implementations the client device is Internet enabled and transmits the beacon identification number to the PSS . The client device may add a client and or user identification to the beacon identification number when forwarding data to the PSS from the beacon . Transmitting the beacon identification number may also include transmitting additional client device or user information to the PSS . For example when a beacon identification number is transmitted the client may also transmit shopping preferences the user recently entered into a computer program executing on the client device . In other implementations the beacon is Internet enabled and transmits client identification to the PSS directly responsive to detecting a client device in the proximity zone.

At step in some implementations the client device receives supplemental content. The supplemental content may be delivered to the client device from the PSS . As discussed above the supplemental content may be a coupon offer or other information. For example the supplemental content may be a coupon for the supplemental content near the beacon an offer for a competitor of the content provider currently providing the content which the client device is near or the supplemental content may be information indicating to the user additional supplemental content that may complement the currently viewed supplemental content .

At step the supplemental content is displayed to the user. In some implementations the supplemental content is displayed to the user via a computer program executing on the client device . The user may only receive the supplemental content if the user is actively using the computer program. In other implementations the supplemental content may be pushed to the client device and displayed to the user regardless if the user is actively using the computer program. In yet other implementations the user may only receive the supplemental content if the user is using the computer program and specifically requests the supplemental content to be delivered. For example a user may be viewing a sweater located near a beacon . The user may wish to see if the store is selling any pants that would match the sweater. The user may then activate the computer programming running on the client device and request the PSS to provide the user with a plurality of matching pants in the current and or competing stores. In some implementations the plurality of matching pants or other supplemental content is ranked based on the user s preferences stored in the user preference database .

As set forth above the method begins when the PSS receives a data packet. In some implementations the data packet is generated by a beacon that is one of a plurality of beacons . The data packet can be transmitted from the beacon to the client device using a first wireless standard and then the client device forwards the data packet to the PSS using a second wireless standard. In some implementations the client device may append a client device identifier to the data packet when the client device forwards the data packet to the PSS .

At step the PSS determines which one of the plurality of beacons generated the data packet. In some implementations the data packet received by the PSS includes a beacon identifier. The PSS can used the beacon identifier to determine which one of the beacons generated the data packet. In some implementations the client device that forwards the data packet to the PSS may be within the physical radius of a plurality of beacons . In these implementations the client device may receive a data packet from each of the plurality of beacons . The client device or PSS may determine with which of the plurality of beacons has the strongest wireless connection. The client device may forward only the data packet from the beacon with which it has the strongest data connection to the PSS . In some implementations the client device may rank the strength of the connections to each of the plurality of beacons and then forward an indication of the ranking to the PSS . The PSS may use the indication of the ranking to better determine the position of the client device .

At step the PSS determines the location of the beacon that generated the data packet. As described above the location of each of the beacons can be saved into the beacon location database . The PSS can access the beacon location database and search the beacon location database to retrieve the location of the beacon that generated the data packet.

At step the PSS associates the location of the beacon with the client device . For example determining that the client device forwarded a data packet from a beacon that is located within the men s section of a store the PSS may determine the client device is also within the men s section of the store. As described above in relation to step in some implementations the client device may receive and forward a plurality of data packets form a plurality of beacons . The PSS may use the ranked list of connection strength to each of the beacons to triangulate a more specific location of the client device . In some implementations when only data packets form a single beacon are forwarded to the PSS the PSS may determine how far the client device is from the beacon response to the signal strength of the connection the client device establishes with the beacon . For example the PSS may determine if the beacons is within a specific logical radius of the beacon .

As described above in some implementations the communications between the beacon client and PSS are encrypted. The signal broadcast by the beacon for example a Bluetooth low energy signal can be detected by devices not part of the PN . For example the signal may be detected by a laptop running packet sniffing software or the signal may be detected by third party applications executing on the client device . For example a third party may attempt to maliciously determine the user s location by loading software onto the client device and recording the beacon IDs detected as the client device visits different locations using the PN . To protect the privacy of users and to ensure the authenticity of communications the beacon client and PSS may encrypt their communications such that even if a third party did detect the signal from a beacon it would not be able to ascertain useable information from the signal.

The above discussed beacon identifier is stored in the encrypted portion of the data packet. Other data that can be used to ensure the authenticity of the communication is also stored in the encrypted portion. For example an indication of the time the data packet was transmitted the up time of the beacon or similar data may be stored in the encrypted portion. In some implementations the beacon identifier includes GPS coordinates or a text string that identifies the beacon to the PSS . The encrypted portion of the data can also include information regarding the beacon such as but not limited to battery level and firmware version. In some implementations the beacon repeatedly transmits the same encrypted portion for a predetermined amount of time. For example the beacon may encrypt and broadcast its current up time and beacon identification number for five minutes. After the five minute period the beacon may generate a new encrypted portion that includes the beacon identification number and the present up time.

During manufacture the beacon is coded with a key for example a 16 bit AES key. When broadcasting data the beacon uses the key to encrypt data that it broadcasts. In some implementations the beacon s key is updated randomly or periodically. For example the beacon may include a shared secret that is hashed with a challenge e.g. the current time to create a new key.

The unencrypted portion of the data may include a key hint and a local ID. As described in greater detail in relation to step the PSS may select a key to decrypt the encrypted portion of the data using the key hint. The local ID may be used by the client device to determine if it has recently received data from a specific beacon . As the actual identification of the beacon is securely stored within the encrypted portion of the data the client device can identify broadcasts from beacons by the local ID and does not have to decrypt the data. For example a client device may receive three data packets the first with a local ID of A the second with a local ID of B and a third with a local ID of A. Responsive to the local ID the client device can determine that the first and third data packets came from the same beacon . In some implementations the client device may disregard the third data packet since it already received a data packet from that beacon in the recent past. In some implementations the local ID is a 16 bit identifier. At random intervals each beacon updates its local ID.

At step the PSS selects a key to decrypt the encrypted portion of the data. In some implementations when the PSS receives encrypted data from a client the PSS does not know which beacon in the PN generated the data. As each beacon in the PN encrypts its data with a unique key the PSS must determine which key to use to decrypt the data. The PSS stores each of the keys required to decrypt data sent from each of the beacons PN . In some implementations the key hint is part of a key value pair and once the key hint is received by the PSS the key hint may be passed through a hash function to retrieve the decrypt key from a hash table. In some implementations the key hint is not unique such that the location of the beacons cannot be mapped by a third party. In some implementations a geohash or another indication of the beacon s general location is transmitted in the unencrypted portion. The PSS may use the geohash in combination with the key hint to determine which key to use to decrypted the data. For example a PSS may receive a key hint of DFCD 3454. The PSS may then use the key hint to determine that beacon A has a key of DFCD 3454 XBEA 788A 351A and is located in California beacon B has a key of DFCD 3454 DPIO 89VA 478B and is located in Massachusetts and beacon C has a key of DFCD 3454 78DA DPE7 3487 and is located in Georgia. The PSS may then determine that the geohash is associated with Massachusetts and select the key of DFCD 3454 DPIO 89VA 478B associated with Beacon B to decrypt the data. In some implementations the PSS may not require a geohash and may iterative try each of the keys located with the key hint.

At step the data is decrypted. Using the key selected in step the PSS decrypts the encrypted portion of the data. In some implementations the PSS also authenticates the sender i.e. the client device or application transmitting the data to the PSS . The PSS may determine if the user of the client device has agreed for their location to be determined and that the application that forwarded the data to the PSS is allowed to receive location data.

At step the beacon identification number is retrieved from the decrypted portion of the data and at step the PSS determines the micro location of the beacon associated with the beacon identification number. The method for determining the micro location of the client device is described above in relation to method .

In the example illustrated in the beacon is placed near the entrance of the store such that it can detect when a new client device enters the store . As illustrated the client device has just entered the store and is within the physical radius of the beacon . While within the physical radius of the beacon the client device may receive data packets with beacon identifiers from the beacon . The client device may then forward data packets to the PSS through the network . As described above the PSS may then lookup the location of the beacon identified by the beacon identifier that was transmitted to the PSS by the client device . For example after receiving the data packet and beacon identifier from the client device the PSS may determine that the client device is near beacon and is therefore near the entrance of the store .

The client device may transmit data packets with deacon identifiers associated with beacon and the PSS may determine that the user of the client device is viewing products and . As described above the PSS may transmit supplemental content related to the products and to the client device . In some implementations the PSS may send supplemental content generally related to the store to client device when the PSS determines that the client device entered the store. For example the PSS may transmit a coupon for 15 off any product in the store to client device . The supplemental content deliver to client device may relate more specifically to the products and . For example the PSS may deliver a coupon for 15 off of product to the client device or the PSS may deliver additional information regarding product to the client device .

In some implementations supplemental content can be advertisements coupons additional information or suggested products. The PSS may determine what type of supplemental content to deliver to a client device responsive to the user preferences of the user associated with the client device or the preferences of the owners and managers of the store . For example the store owners may wish to reward repeat customers. In this example a coupon may be delivered to a client device if the client device is determined to be near the location of beacon a predetermined number of times within a predetermined number of days. For example the PSS may deliver a 20 off coupon to a user if the user visits the store five times in one month. In some implementations beacons may be placed outside of a store or in a location within the store such that the physical radius of the beacon may cover areas outside the store . For example the owner of the store may place a beacon outside the store such that the PSS can determine when a registered client device is walking by the store and deliver supplemental content to the client device .

As set forth above the method includes receiving user preferences step and content provider preferences step . In some implementations the preferences of the user and or content provider may be updated added or removed at any time. For example the user may see an item for sale online and save it to their account to update the user s preferences. The content provider s preferences may include but are not limited to notifications regarding discounts on content global use coupons a list of competitors and or collaborators a list of preferred users content inventory or any combination thereof. The list of collaborators may be business associations that sell complementary items. For example near Valentine s Day a local florist may enter into collaboration with a local confectioner such that if a user purchases content at one of the stores the user will automatically receive a coupon at the other store. Similarly the content provider may wish to keep a list of customers that on average spend a set dollar amount with the content provider each month quarter or year. In turn the content provider may have a preference to automatically provide those customers with discounts coupons benefits or other supplemental content.

At step a location is associated with the beacon. The location of the beacon is stored in the beacon location database . As described above responsive to receiving a beacon identification number the PSS looks up the beacon location with the beacon identification number in the beacon location database . The PSS then associates the location of the beacon with the location of the client device . In some implementations before the PSS can associate the location of the beacon with the client device the PSS needs to be provided the location of the beacon .

At step the PSS receives the beacon identification number from a client device . As discussed above in relation to method in some implementations the beacon identification number is accompanied by a user identification number.

At step responsive to receiving the beacon identification number the PSS determines the location of the client device step . In some implementations the PSS compares the received beacon indemnification number with a table of beacon identification numbers stored in the beacon location database . The beacon location database may then provide the PSS with the location of the beacon . In some implementations the location includes a physical location of the content provider and or the location of the beacon within the content provider . Responsive to determining the location and or location of the beacon the PSS may cross reference the determined location of the beacon with the current location of the client device to authenticate the received beacon identification number. In some implementations the client device may deliver to the PSS the strength of its connection with the beacon such that the PSS can determine if the client device is within a logical radius of the beacons. In some implementations the PSS may wait for the client device to be within the logical radius of the beacon before transmitting supplemental content to the client device .

At step the PSS determines a response based on location user preferences and content provider preferences. In some implementations the calculated response is a determination of the type of supplemental content to be sent to the client device . In some implementations the response based on the location of the beacon the user s preferences the content provider s preferences or any combination thereof. In some implementations the user may specify the type of response the user would like to receive. For example the user may request a necklace to complement the currently viewed dress based on the preferences the user has uploaded to the PSS . As another example the user may request a coupon for the currently view content or a list of similar items the user is currently viewing.

At step responsive to determining the response the PSS transmits the response to the client device . As discussed in reference to method in some implementations the response is transmitted to the client only when requested by the user . In other implementations the response may be automatically calculated and delivered to the client device without intervention by the user.

The skilled artisan will understand that although the method steps above are shown in a particular order they can be done in any order or certain steps may be skipped entirely.

Having described the components of the system an example of a user interacting with the system may provide further details and context for understanding the system and methods disclosed herein. While the below example particularly show and describe specific implementations it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the system and methods described in this disclosure.

As a basis for the example the PSS hosts a website that the user may access via a client device such a web enabled smart phone or home computer. Furthering the example the content providers may be a clothing merchant that sells clothing through its retail outlets or stores. Within those outlets the clothing merchant places beacons throughout the store. The merchant may then list the merchandise available at the store with the PSS . Additionally the PSS may gather images of merchandise from non content providers such from the website of fashion magazines.

In this example a user may view clothing accessories and other merchandise on the website hosted by the PSS . As the user views the items on the website the user may mark items they like or dislike. The system may then use the characteristics of these items to update the user s shopping and merchandise preferences. The website saves the user s preferences and liked items so the user may view details about them at a later time or share the details with friends via the website. For example a group of friends may send each other images of dresses they like for an event or a user may view the items save by a fashion forward movie star or other fashion opinion leader.

These details may also be saved synced and or accessed by the user s smart phone. In this example the user s smart phone may include a computer program that syncs with the PSS . Additionally the smart phone may be Bluetooth enabled such that it can detect the presence of a beacon.

Now referring back to the clothing store of content provider. The merchant can place a number of beacons around the store for example at the entrance to the store and near a table of dresses. In a manner completely transparent to the user when the user enters a beacon enabled clothing store the user s phone may recognize the beacon. The beacon may send the phone a identifier which the phone retransmits to the PSS . The PSS resolves the identifier and determines in which store the beacon is located and the beacon s location within the store. Accessing the user s preferences the PSS may determine specific items the user may like.

As this process is transparent to the user the user s experience of walking into a beacon enabled store is as follows. Within a few moments of walking into the store the user s phone alerts the user that the store has a dress similar to the dress the user recently indicated liking on the website hosted by the PSS . Additionally the user may receive information about the dress such as availability location with the store and price. The user may also receive a coupon for 10 off from the merchant as a thank you for having visited the store multiple times within the last week.

Next the user may walk to table displaying the dress. The table contains a beacon. As the user nears the table the user s phone detects the beacon and as described above relays the beacon s identification to the PSS . Knowing the location of the beacon the PSS can estimate that the user is viewing the dress.

Not seeing the dress in the user s size the user may request assistance from a store employee via the program running on the phone. Additionally if the user accesses the program while in the store the program may automatically display information about the merchandise at the nearest beacon. In this example rather than asking for assistance from an employee the user may access the program on the user s phone which automatically reveals information about the dress the user is viewing. This information may reveal to the user the store currently has three of the dresses in the user s size in the store s back storage area.

The system having noticed the user has been near the beacon corresponding to the dress for some time without moving on may predict the user has mixed feelings about purchasing the dress. After the user has been in close proximity to the dress for a few minutes the PSS may automatically deliver to the user s phone a coupon for the dress that is valid for only the next 10 minutes.

As discussed above the PSS includes an interface module . In some implementations the interface module generates a user interface and a content provider interface. The interfaces may be a website executing on the PSS and or another central web server. In some implementations the client device executes a computer program that interfaces with the PSS . In other implementations the client device includes a web browser that views the website pages provided by the PSS and or other central web server. The exemplary implementations below represent a possible user interfaces that may be viewed as a webpage and or as a graphical user interface of a computer program interacting with the PSS .

Similarly in the exemplary user interface is displaying a plurality of content providers . In some implementations the plurality of content providers is all content providers that are in the PN . In other implementations the displayed content providers are a sub population of the total number of content providers . For example the user may wish to only display content providers that have been selected by the user and or only content providers that are within a given distance of the current location of the user . In some implementations the user may select content providers to add to the user s preferences.

In some implementations the choice of content provider to display on the map is responsive to the user preference and or content provider preferences stored in the PSS . For example the user interface may only display content providers that the PSS has determined the user has a high probability of having an interest. In other implementations the selection of the content providers to display may be based on the preferences of the content providers . For example the content providers may wish to have the PSS provide via the user interface coupons to a specific demographic of user within a 2 mile radius of the content provider.

As described above the PSS includes an interface module . In addition to the user interface descried above the PSS may also provide a content provider interface and system management interface. The content provider interface may provide content providers with an interface for performing actions such as updating supplemental content e.g. coupons and changing beacon parameters e.g. logical radii settings . The system management interface may allow the manager of the PSS to perform functions such as but not limited to adding new content provider accounts and associating beacons with specific content providers .

The interface module may provide the manager of the PSS with a system management interface also referred to as the console for managing various aspects of the PSS . These aspects may include adding and removing content providers from the PSS and associating beacons with specific content providers . As described above the console or other interface may be provided in the form of a webpage web application and or computer program. The interface may be accessed and or executed by various types of computing devices such as desktop computers laptops smart phones and or tablet computers.

In some implementations the PSS manager may use the console to add content providers to the PSS . For example the PSS may be managed by a company that sells and or licenses accounts to content providers . The manager of the PSS may create a PSS account for the content provider responsive to selling and or licensing a PSS account to the content provider . The content provider may provide information to the PSS manger. The PSS manger may then use the information to setup a PSS account for the content provider . The information may include an account name account manager information number of properties e.g. stores in which the content provider may be using the beacons the number of beacons the content provider is requesting or purchasing number of user logins to be associated with the PSS account and any special instructions for the PSS manager. The PSS manager may future associate licensing restrictions with the content provider s PSS account. The licensing restrictions may include the length of the license and the features of the PSS the content provider is licensed to use. Optional features to license may include content management and publishing offers management in store beacon management and analytics capabilities.

Responsive to creating the content provider s PSS account the PSS manager may associate an account administrator to the PSS account. The account administrator may be an employee of the content provider responsible for managing the PSS account. Managing a PSS account may include adding and removing authorized account users and managing the content provider s PSS preferences.

As described above the content provider may be a store. In some embodiments the content provider may own or manage a plurality of properties. For example the content provider may be a chain which operates one or more stores in one or more cities. In some embodiments the account administrator may group its plurality of properties responsive to a set criteria. For example the plurality of stores may be grouped responsive to a geographic location. In some embodiments the account administrator may group its plurality of properties based on a scheme that mirrors the content provider s business structure. For example the content provider may divide its stores into sales regions. When grouping the plurality of properties associated with the PSS account the account administrator may group the plurality of properties such that the groups align with the sales region.

In some implementations one type of authorized user may be a group administrator. The group administrator may be responsible for one or more groups associated with the content provider s PSS account. Continuing the above example the system user responsible for a group may be a regional manager for a sales region. Another type of authorized user may be the role authorized user. The group administrators may create role authorized users and assign predetermined responsibilities to the role authorized users. Example responsibilities or roles may include content creator offers manager data analyst manager and beacon manager. In some implementations the content creator may create manage and publish content provider assets and product merchandising. The offers manager may create and manage the personalized supplemental content provided to users . The data analysis manager may generate and view reports created by the PSS and the analysis module . The beacon manager may activate and deactivate beacons and set beacon parameters such as location and the above described logical radius . In some implementations authorized users may be created which are not assigned specific roles. These authorized users may log into a content provider s PSS account to view information but may not be authorized to perform tasks associated with the above described roles.

One or more of the authorized user types may be authorized to perform various administrative functions. For example an administrative function may include sending messages to the authorized users associated with the content provider s PSS account. In some implementations the messages may be sent to a specific type of authorized user. For example the messages may be sent to only the beacon managers. Administrative functionality may also include resetting and or retrieving passwords performing system audits and creating user directories.

In some embodiments the PSS manager licenses and or sells the beacons to content providers . In some embodiments specific functions of the beacons may need to be managed by the content provider and or the PSS manager. For example the PSS manager may activate and deactivate beacons responsive to the start and end of a licensing agreement with a content provider . The content provider may manage beacon parameters such as the logical radius . In some implementations beacons may be managed by one or more of the above described authorized user types.

In some implementations the PSS manager may maintain a database of the beacons within the PN . The database may include the beacon s serial number MAC address manufacturing data manufacturer version number firmware version number shipment date associated content provider and case type. The PSS manager may populate the database prior to sending the beacons to the content provider .

Responsive to receiving the beacons from a PSS manager the content provider may log into the console and set various beacon parameters. In some embodiments the parameters may include beacon placement the size of the logical radius and the active inactive state. In some embodiments via the console the beacon manager may also view beacon status reports for the beacons under its management. The information may include the version number of the beacon battery level activation state and up time.

An authorized user may manage the content provider s supplemental content and the content s distribution through the console. The content provider may create and manage conditions that govern the distribution of supplemental content. The conditions may include store segments audience segments event triggers and user parameters. As described below the conditions may be created and applied to one or more supplemental content items. By reusing conditions and rules the authorized users may reduce the time required to create supplemental content.

One exemplary embodiment of a condition is a store segment condition. In some embodiments the above described groups may also be further divided into store segments to provide greater control in where supplemental content is distributed. The store segments may incorporate one or more parameters. For example a content provider s stores may be segments based on the store s performance and or location. In some implementations a store may belong to more than one segment. For example a content provider s store in New York City may belong to a New England segment a New York state segment a New York City segment and a high performance segment.

An audience segment condition may be another exemplary embodiment of a condition. The audience segment may allow supplemental content to be provided to only specific users . Audience segments may include one or more parameters such as but not limited to the number of visits within a given time range the age of the user and the gender of the user . For example a user may be included in a first audience segment if the user visits the content provider more than three times in the last month is between the ages of 18 and 34 and is female.

The delivery of supplemental content may be triggered responsive to an event condition. These event conditions may be referred to as offer trigger events. A number of parameters may be associated with the offer trigger. The parameters may include location beacon reference delay time dwell time and default status. For example an offer trigger that occurs when a user enters a content provider s store may include the parameters title Walk in Instant Beacons All Delay time 0 sec default yes.

Having created the conditions that may control the distribution of the supplemental content the authorized users may create the supplemental content. The supplemental content may be placed in an offer queue that dispenses the supplemental content. In some implementations multiple offer queues may be created. In some implementations multiple offer queues may be created however only one may be active at a given time. For example an offer manager may create offer queues for each season and then activate the seasonal offer queue during the correct season. The supplemental content may include one or more parameters. The parameters may include supplemental content value e.g. 30 off or 10 off a purchase of 50 start date end date start time end time barcode image supplemental content code expiration time exclusions frequency cap sharing option and template. The template may layout and design i.e. the visual presentation of the supplemental content. In some implementations the PSS may verify one or more the supplemental content parameters before distributing the supplemental content. For example the frequency cap of one supplemental content item may be set to 1 000. In this example if the supplemental content has already been distributed 1 000 times the PSS may look for another supplemental content item in the offer queue to distribute to the user . Responsive to creating the supplemental content the supplemental content may be associated with an audience segment condition store segment condition and or trigger event condition.

In some implementations the PSS may determine that a user meets the conditions to receive more than one supplemental content item. In some embodiments a priority level condition may be assigned to each supplemental content item. The priority level may be used to determine which supplemental content item the user should receive. For example the offer manager may create supplemental content for loyal customers and give it a higher priority than supplemental content for the general public. Accordingly in this example the loyal customer may receive the supplemental content intended for loyal customers over the supplemental content intended for the general public.

In some embodiment the PSS may include a mechanism for approving supplemental content. In some implementations offers reducing the price of supplemental content by a percentage or amount over a predetermined limit require approval before the PSS distributes the supplemental content to users . The PSS may seek approval for supplemental content my sending a message e.g. an email message to the account manager or other authorized user authorized to approval supplemental content.

At step the supplemental content is approved. In some implementations the supplemental content may not require approval and in other implementations the supplemental content may require approval if the supplemental content includes an offer over a predetermined dollar value.

At step one or more conditions are associated with the supplemental content. As described above the conditions may include one or more parameters. The PSS may use the parameters within the conditions to determine what supplemental content to deliver to a user s client device .

At step the PSS receives a beacon identification number from a client device . In some implementations step may mirror step of method described above. As described above when a client device is within a predetermined range of a beacon the client device may detect the beacon s beacon identification number. The client device may then transmit the beacon identification number and client device identification number to the PSS . Responsive to the beacon identification number and client device identification number the PSS may retrieve supplemental content that may be appropriate to deliver to the client device .

At step the PSS determines which of the supplemental content items retrieved in step should be delivered to the client device . The determination may be responsive to the conditions associated with each of the supplemental content items. For example in step the PSS may retrieve a first supplemental content item with the condition it is to be delivered to female user and a second supplemental content item with the condition it is to be delivered to a male user. The PSS may review these conditions and determine that as the client device is associated with a male user the second condition should be delivered. At step the supplemental content is delivered to the client device .

The skilled artisan will understand that although the method steps above are shown in a particular order they can be done in any order or certain steps may be skipped entirely.

As described above in some implementations a beacon can be placed in a store. In some implementations the store may sell a plurality of products from a plurality of venders or content providers . For example a home improvement store may sell ten different types of lawn mowers produced by three different venders. As described above the PSS may send supplemental content to a client device when the client device is within a predetermined range of a beacon . In implementations when the beacon is placed near the products of a plurality of venders the PSS may hold a content auction to determine what supplemental content is delivered to the client device .

In the PSS of can also include a content database . The content database can be database where the PSS stores the supplemental content generated by the content providers . The content stored in the content database can be stored in the content database in association with a bid price and at least one beacon or beacon location. For example a content provider may be willing to pay 3.00 for one of its supplemental content items to be delivered to client device when the client device is near the content provider s product .

The PSS may store the results of past auctions in the transaction database . In some implementations the content providers may set a cap on the amount of money they wish to spend on auctions within a predetermined amount of time. The PSS may store this information in the transaction database and determine if the content provider has enough money left in their allowance to place a bid in an active auction. For example a content provider may wish to spend no more than 1 000 on auctions per month. In this example if the content provider has already spent 998.00 on auctions in the month the transaction database may prohibit a 3.00 bid from being placed for the content provider s account. The transaction database may also be used to general reports for billing purposes at the predetermined intervals. For example the owner of the PSS may create invoices for each of the content providers using an interface to the transaction database .

The auction module may conduct the auction to determine what supplement content is to be delivered to the client device . For example responsive to the PSS determining the client device is within the physical radius of the beacon the PSS may transmit supplemental content to the client device . The PSS can access to the content database to determine what content is associated with the beacon . In some implementations the auction module may access the transaction database to determine if the content associated with the beacon is eligible for an auction. Content may be ineligible for an auction if for example the content provider wishes to spend a predetermined amount on auctions per month and that amount has been met for the month. The content provider s content may not be eligible for auctions until the content provider s budget renews at the beginning of the next month.

Responsive to determining what content is associated with the beacon the auction module conducts the ad auction. In some implementations the auction module iteratively increase the price for sending the supplemental content item to the client device until a winner of the auction is determined. For example if the auction module determines that content item A B C and D are associated with products and respectively it may enter the content items A B C and D into the ad auction. In this example if content item A has a maximum bid price of 3.00 content item B a maximum bid price of 5.00 content item C a maximum bid price of 2.00 and content item maximum D a bid price of 3.00. The auction module may increase the bid price of the auction until a winner is determined. The increase in bid price may be a fixed or variable amount. Furthering the above example assume the increase price is 0.10. In this example content item C would drop out once the bid price reaches 2.00 and content items A and D would drop out when the bid priced reaches 3.00. Content item B would win the auction at a price of 3.10. In some implementations auction module calculates the winning price as the second maximum highest bid price which is to be paid by the content provider associated with the highest bid price. In this example the second highest bid price is 3.00 which would be charged for displaying content item B. In some implementations if the highest bid price is associated with more than one content item for example if the above example action also included content item E with a maximum bid price of 5.00 the winner of the auction may be determined by randomly selecting one of the content items that has the highest maximum bid price. In some implementations with multiple highest maximum bids each of the content items with the highest maximum bid may be queued for subsequent delivery to client devices . For example content item D may be delivered to the first client device and content item E may be queued for display to the next client device that enters the physical radius . Once the queue is empty ad auctions may resume to determine which content items are delivered to client device entering the physical radius .

At step the PSS receives an indication of a client device location. As described above in relation to the PSS may determine the location of a client device by receiving a beacon identification from the client device once the beacon has crossed the physical radius . The PSS may then determine the location of the beacon that generated the beacon identification number and then associate the location of the beacon with the client device .

At step the PSS selects a portion of the plurality of supplemental content items responsive to the location of the client device . For example the auction module may search the content database for content items that are associated with the location indicated in step . The PSS may then enter the selected content items into an ad auction to determine which content item is to delivered to the client device .

At step the PSS selects a supplemental content item responsive to the bids associated with the each of the plurality of supplemental content items selected in step . As described above in some implementations the supplemental content item is selected through an ad auction. In some implementations responsive to multiple content items having the same maximum bid price the ad auction can have a plurality of winners. In these instances the content item to be delivered can be randomly selected from the plurality of winners or the winning content items may be queued for display to subsequent client devices as they enter the physical radius of the beacon . Once a content item is selected for display to the client device the price of the winning bid is charged to the account of the content provider associated with the winning content item.

At step the selected supplemental content item is delivered to the client device. The content item may be delivered to the client device via Wi Fi or a cellular connection of the client device. In some implementations the content item is only delivered to the client device is actively running an application associated with the PSS . In other implementations the content item may be delivered to the client device as a push notification and the software application associated with the PSS does not need to be open or active. In some implementations if the client device remains within the physical radius of the beacon for a predetermined amount of time the PSS may conduct a second ad auction to deliver a second supplemental content item.

