---

title: Systems and methods for managing web browser histories
abstract: A computer-implemented method for managing web browser histories may include (1) identifying a website visited via a web browser, (2) selecting one or more website categories for which websites are not to be referenced in the web browser history, (3) querying a website categorization database to verify whether the visited website belongs to a selected website category, (4) receiving, in response to querying the website categorization database, an indication that the website belongs to a selected website category, and (5) blocking, based on the website belonging to a selected category, the website from being referenced in the web browser history. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262646&OS=09262646&RS=09262646
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09262646
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130531
---
Although the Internet began as a communications medium primarily for military and academic research it has increased in scope to include business commerce entertainment and nearly every aspect of Internet users personal lives. The intersections between personal family professional and public spheres are areas of vulnerability where private information may be disclosed to unintended audiences. Advertisers law enforcement current and potential employers hackers and scammers all have an interest in gathering personal information to which they may not be entitled and individuals may wish to maintain a level of privacy even from close friends and immediate family members.

Web browser histories are a potential treasure trove of personal data. Records of visited websites may reveal a user s interests beliefs affiliations habits wishes weaknesses or addictions. To prevent the collection of a browser history the option exists to not maintain a browser history at all and most browsers now allow the user to easily switch to a browsing mode that does not maintain a history. However browser histories are a useful record of websites to which the user may wish to return. Rather the user may want maintain a browser history but also protect their privacy by keeping a record of certain website visits out of the history. To that end the user may delete certain websites from the browser history manually but this approach would require a considerable commitment of time and attention from the user. Accordingly the instant disclosure identifies and addresses a need for additional and improved systems and methods for managing web browser histories.

As will be described in greater detail below the instant disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for managing web browser histories by blocking websites belonging to a selected category from being referenced in a web browser history.

In one example a computer implemented method for managing web browser histories may include 1 identifying a website visited via a web browser 2 selecting one or more website categories for which websites are not to be referenced in the web browser history 3 querying a website categorization database to verify whether the visited website belongs to a selected website category 4 receiving in response to querying the website categorization database an indication that the website belongs to a selected website category and 5 blocking based on the website belonging to a selected category the website from being referenced in the web browser history.

In some examples selecting the website category may include displaying a user interface element that enables a user to select one or more website categories. Additionally or alternatively selecting the website category may include querying the website categorization database for a list of website categories to be displayed via a user interface element for selection by the user.

In some embodiments the privacy of selected website categories may be ensured by storing them in an encrypted data store. The encrypted data store may be accessible only to an authenticated user. Additionally the method may include caching selected website categories together with associated previously visited websites identifying a subsequently visited website and blocking the subsequently visited website from being reference in the web browser history based on the presence of the subsequently visited website matching a previously visited website in the cache. The cache may also be encrypted and in one embodiment encrypted by a one way hash function. Searching for a website in a cache encrypted with a one way hash function may entail encrypting a subsequently visited website using the one way hash function and searching the cache with the encrypted website identifier to identify the category associated with the website but without revealing the visited website.

In some examples websites belonging to a selected category are prevented from being saved in the web browser history. Additionally in some examples websites present in the web browser history and belonging to a selected category are deleted from the history.

In one embodiment a system for implementing the above described method may include 1 an identification module that identifies a website visited with a web browser 2 a selection module that selects one or more website categories for which websites are not to be referenced in a web browser history 3 a query module that queries a website categorization database to verify whether the visited website belongs to a selected website category 4 a receiving module that receives in response to querying the website categorization database an indication that the website belongs to a website category and 5 a blocking module that blocks based on the website belonging to a selected category the website from being referenced in the web browser history. In some examples the system may also include at least one processor that executes the identification module the selection module the query module the receiving module and the blocking module.

In some examples the above described method may be encoded as computer readable instructions on a computer readable storage medium. For example a computer readable storage medium may include one or more computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to 1 identify a website visited via a web browser 2 select one or more website categories for which websites are not to be referenced in a web browser history 3 query a website categorization database to verify whether the visited website belongs to a selected website category 4 receive in response to querying the website categorization database an indication that the website belongs to a selected website category and 5 block based on the website belonging to a selected category the website from being referenced in the web browser history.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

Throughout the drawings identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar but not necessarily identical elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The present disclosure is generally directed to systems and methods for managing web browser histories. As will be explained in greater detail below by selecting categories of websites to be blocked from being referenced in a web browser history the systems and methods described herein help preserve confidentiality of sensitive aspects of a user s web browsing habits while continuing to collect the browsing history of less sensitive websites. In some examples the systems described herein may be configured once and modified only as needed and therefore may operate discreetly and automatically without burdening the user s time or attention. Aspects of the systems described herein may help ensure the confidentiality of configuration and operating data.

The following will provide with reference to and detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for managing web browser histories. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer implemented methods will also be provided in connection with . Detailed descriptions of an exemplary user interface will be provided in connection with . In addition detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with respectively.

In addition and as will be described in greater detail below exemplary system may include a query module that queries with an identifier for the visited website a website categorization database that associates websites with website categories. Furthermore exemplary system may include a receiving module that receives in response to querying the website categorization database an indication that the website belongs to the selected website category. Exemplary system may also include a blocking module that blocks the website from being referenced in the web browser history in response to receiving the indication that the website belongs to the selected website category. Although illustrated as separate elements one or more of modules in may represent portions of a single module or application.

In certain embodiments one or more of modules in may represent one or more software applications or programs that when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices such as the devices illustrated in e.g. computing device and or server computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . One or more of modules in may also represent all or portions of one or more special purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.

Exemplary system in may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example all or a portion of exemplary system may represent portions of exemplary system in . As shown in system may include a computing device in communication with a server via a network . Computing device may be programmed with one or more of modules . Additionally or alternatively server may be programmed with one or more of modules .

In one embodiment one or more of modules from may when executed by at least one processor of computing device and or server facilitate managing web browser histories in computing device and or server . For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may cause computing device and or server to 1 identify a website visited via a web browser 2 select at least one website category for which websites are not to be referenced in a web browser history that is accessible to the web browser 3 query with an identifier for visited website a website categorization database that associates website identifiers with website categories 4 receive in response to querying website categorization database an indication that the website belongs to the selected website category and 5 block website from being referenced in the web browser history in response to receiving the indication that website belongs to selected website category .

Computing device generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of computing device include without limitation laptops tablets desktops servers cellular phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device.

Server generally represents any type or form of computing device that is capable of storing comparing and or providing data. Examples of server include without limitation web servers application servers and database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. For example server may represent a combination web server and database server configured to respond to database queries submitted via web protocols.

Network generally represents any medium or architecture capable of facilitating communication or data transfer. Examples of network include without limitation an intranet a Wide Area Network WAN a Local Area Network LAN a Personal Area Network PAN the Internet Power Line Communications PLC a cellular network e.g. a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network exemplary network architecture in or the like. Network may facilitate communication or data transfer using wireless or wired connections. In one embodiment network may facilitate communication between computing device and server .

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify a website visited via a web browser. For example at step identification module may as part of computing device in identify website as being visited via a web browser.

As used herein the term website may refer to any addressable resource that may be categorized and that may be saved in a web browser history. For example the term website may refer to static or dynamically generated web pages web applications based on frameworks such as Ajax JAVASCRIPT or ADOBE FLASH or content delivered by web application platforms such as MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT.

Identification module may identify website in any suitable context. In some examples identification module may operate integrally to the web browser and obtain access to websites as they are visited by the web browser. In other examples identification module may utilize application programming interfaces e.g. provided by the browser or operating system . In some examples identification module may operate in a defined modular application format such as a browser plug in. In these examples identification module may thereby identify websites from network interfaces as network requests are transmitted or as network data is received or from file system interfaces as websites are saved to the browser history. In some examples identification module may identify website by parsing a file that stores the web browser history. Additionally or alternatively the web browser history may be saved in a centrally accessible location e.g. in cloud storage in association with a user account e.g. to be available to the user from multiple clients and or web browsers . Accordingly identification module may identify website by retrieving website identifier of website from a web browser history stored in the cloud.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may select at least one website category for which websites are not to be referenced in a web browser history. For example at step selection module may as part of computing device in select category as a website category for which websites are not to be referenced in the web browser history.

Selection module may select website category in any of a variety of ways. For example selection module may select website category from a list of default website categories to keep private. Additionally or alternatively selection module may select website category by receiving input via a user interface that selects website category for exclusion from browser history. For example the user interface may provide a list of website categories to exclude e.g. including suggested website categories to exclude based on exclusion popularity by ordering for priority and or highlighting the suggested categories within the user interface . As another example the user interface may accept search terms for names and or descriptions of website categories. In some examples the user interface may present a user with an option of showing the categories of a website listed in a browser history and or a currently loaded website. In these examples the user interface may enable the user to select from the categories of the listed and or loaded website.

In some examples selection module may select website category by retrieving configuration data that specifies that website category was previously selected and or configured for exclusion from browser history. For example after a user selects one or more website categories for exclusion from the web browser history selection module may save the selection in an encrypted and or obfuscated format that is only accessible via an authenticated user account.

As used herein the phrase website category may refer to any group of websites that can be characterized by a common factor such as content or purpose. A few examples of the many categories a user may choose to block from their web browser history include without limitation gambling or gaming sites sites with pornographic or adult oriented content dating or social networking sites hacker sites sites with pirated content peer to peer file sharing sites shopping or e commerce sites employment search sites or sites with religious content.

Using as an example a user interface element may be used by selection module to display a list of website categories from which the user may select one or more website categories. In one example the set of website categories displayed by user interface element have been previously identified as existing in website categorization database . In other examples the set of website categories displayed by user interface element may be obtained by querying website categorization database .

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may query with an identifier for the visited website a website categorization database that associates websites with website categories. For example at step query module may as part of computing device in query website categorization database e.g. a database that associates one or more websites such as those identified by website identifiers with one or more website categories such as website category with website identifier corresponding to website to determine whether website identifier belongs to selected website category . Using as another example query module may query categorization database to determine whether website belongs to website category that was selected from user interface element .

Website categorization database may include any suitable database repository and or data structure for relating websites to website categories. In some examples website categorization database may include one or more existing web categorization databases e.g. used for security content filtering parental control and or other purposes such as the RULESPACE WEB CATEGORIZATION SOLUTION to associate each website with one or more of many categories.

Query module may query website categorization database in any suitable manner. In some examples query module may query a centralized database of website categorizations with website identifier of visited website and receive the selected website category e.g. category in response. Additionally or alternatively query module may analyze and or request analysis of visited website . For example query module may parse visited website for key terms that indicate a category of visited website .

In some examples the visited website may include a web page with one or more search engine results e.g. with potentially sensitive search terms and or search results . In these examples query module may query the website categorization database using one or more of the websites listed and or linked to within the web page of search engine results e.g. to apply the categories of the websites listed in the search results to the web page of search results . Additionally or alternatively query module may query the website categorization database with the web page and the website categorization database may identify the website categories of the individual search results and return these website categories to query module .

For example query module may query the website categorization database with a web page of search results for the search terms sklansky theory. While the search engine website may not be categorized as a gambling website query module and or the website categorization database may extract the web pages linked to within the search results and the website categorization database may determine that the category of one or more of these web pages includes gambling. Accordingly query module may receive gambling as a category of the web page of search results. In this manner even if a search engine website itself is not associated with a sensitive category the systems and methods described herein may provide privacy by excluding sensitive searches from browser histories based on the categories of websites returned in the sensitive searches. Furthermore in some examples these systems may successfully exclude sensitive searches from browser histories without relying on the search terms of the sensitive searches e.g. without recognizing that the search terms sklansky theory refer to a subject pertaining to gambling .

As depicted in exemplary system may include a data store where selected website categories may be stored between browsing sessions. To prevent disclosure of the selected categories data store may be encrypted with the contents accessible only after the user has been authenticated. So that previously selected categories may continue to be blocked in a new browsing session selection module may in one example retrieve and decrypt previously selected website categories from data store .

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may receive in response to querying the website categorization database an indication that the website belongs to the selected website category. For example at step receiving module may as part of computing device in receive indication from website categorization database that website that corresponds to website identifier belongs to the selected website category .

Receiving module may receive any suitable indication that the website belongs to the selected website category. For example receiving module may receive a message with an identifier of website category in response to the query of website categorization database .

Using as an example exemplary system may include a caching module that utilizes a cache to store one or more website categories and associated previously visited website identifiers . By caching previously visited websites system may verify that a visited website belongs to a selected category without the need to query a remote website categorization database. As with the data store cache may be encrypted and accessible only to an authenticated user.

In one example caching module may utilize a one way hash when encrypting the cache . Query module may determine that website identifier is represented in cache by encrypting website identifier with the one way hash function and searching the cache for the presence of the encrypted website identifier. In this manner query module may determine that website category applies to website identifier . Thereby query module may determine that a visited website belongs to a category previously selected to be blocked without undertaking the possible security risk or processor utilization of fully decrypting cache .

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may block the website from being referenced in the web browser history in response to receiving the indication that the website belongs to the selected website category. For example at step blocking module may as part of computing device in block website identifier corresponding to website from being referenced in the web browser history in response to receiving indication that website identifier belongs to selected website category .

Blocking module may block website from being referenced in the web browser history in any suitable manner. In some examples blocking module may block website from being referenced in the web browser history by preventing website identifier from being saved in the web browser history. For example blocking module may utilize a web browser API to manage data written to the web browser history. Alternatively blocking module may utilize operating system APIs to intercept data flows between the browser and the storage system on which the browser history resides and to prevent blocked websites from being written to the browser history.

In some examples blocking module may block website from being referenced in the web browser history by retrieving website identifier for visited website from the web browser history and deleting website identifier for website from the web browser history. For example blocking module may monitor the browser history and delete references to websites to be blocked immediately after they are written. Additionally or alternatively blocking module may periodically check the browser history and deleted references to websites to be blocked. In some examples blocking module may check the web browser history for and delete references to websites with category in response to category being selected.

Using as an example exemplary system may prevent browser from referencing website in browser history . In one example the system may block a previously visited website from being referenced in web browser history by scanning web browser history and deleting references to websites belonging to selected categories .

The various modules and components of the exemplary system may be combined or distributed among various device configurations. For example browser may represent browsers on multiple devices that share a single browser history stored on a network accessible or cloud storage location.

In some examples the systems described herein may function either as a feature of a web browser or as a separate product and or application that monitors and modifies the history entries of other browsers on a computing system. These systems may allow a user to select one or more categories of web sites that should never appear in a browser history. Once the categories have been selected these systems may look up the category of each visited site using a database of site to category mappings. For each site visited if the site is associated with a category that the user selected earlier for exclusion from the browser history these systems may remove the history entry and or prevent the history entry from being created. These systems may thereby automatically protect the user s privacy when browsing sensitive sites and may eliminate the need for any manual steps to be taken by the user.

In order to obtain the site category for each visited website these systems may leverage one or more existing web categorization databases e.g. used for security content filtering parental control and or other purposes such as the RULESPACE WEB CATEGORIZATION SOLUTION to associate each website with one or more of many categories. Because the categorization database may be very large instead of storing the categorization database client side these systems may perform queries to a server to discover the category for a visited site. To improve performance and decrease bandwidth usage the systems described herein may cache the categories for previously visited web sites on the client so that frequently visited sites do not require multiple queries to the server. In some examples these systems may obfuscate site entries e.g. website names addresses and or categories such as by using a one way hash function so that the cache itself does not contain the browsing history that these systems are meant to remove.

In some examples these systems may monitor visited sites and clear the sites from a web browser history. For example these systems may be implemented as a part of a web browser and or a browser plug in. Additionally or alternatively these systems may function as a separate application from a web browser e.g. by using system APIs to examine and delete entries from the stock web browser history of a system e.g. an ANDROID system . In some examples these systems may periodically iterate over all entries in the browser history and delete those that correspond to categories selected by the user.

As described above by providing systems and methods for selecting categories of websites to be blocked from being referenced in a web browser history the embodiments described herein may help preserve confidentiality of sensitive aspects of a user s web browsing habits while continuing to collect the browsing history of less sensitive websites. In some examples the systems described herein may be configured once and modified only as needed and therefore may operate discreetly and automatically without burdening the user s time or attention. Aspects of the systems described herein may help ensure the confidentiality of configuration and operating data.

Computing system broadly represents any single or multi processor computing device or system capable of executing computer readable instructions. Examples of computing system include without limitation workstations laptops client side terminals servers distributed computing systems handheld devices or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration computing system may include at least one processor and a system memory .

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments processor may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

System memory generally represents any type or form of volatile or non volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. Examples of system memory include without limitation Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM flash memory or any other suitable memory device. Although not required in certain embodiments computing system may include both a volatile memory unit such as for example system memory and a non volatile storage device such as for example primary storage device as described in detail below . In one example one or more of modules from may be loaded into system memory .

In certain embodiments exemplary computing system may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor and system memory . For example as illustrated in computing system may include a memory controller an Input Output I O controller and a communication interface each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure include without limitation a communication bus such as an Industry Standard Architecture ISA Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI PCI Express PCIe or similar bus and a network.

Memory controller generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example in certain embodiments memory controller may control communication between processor system memory and I O controller via communication infrastructure .

I O controller generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example in certain embodiments I O controller may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system such as processor system memory communication interface display adapter input interface and storage interface .

Communication interface broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system and one or more additional devices. For example in certain embodiments communication interface may facilitate communication between computing system and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network such as the Internet. Communication interface may also indirectly provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a cellular telephone connection a satellite data connection or any other suitable connection.

In certain embodiments communication interface may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include without limitation Small Computer System Interface SCSI host adapters Universal Serial Bus USB host adapters Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 host adapters Advanced Technology Attachment ATA Parallel ATA PATA Serial ATA SATA and External SATA eSATA host adapters Fibre Channel interface adapters Ethernet adapters or the like. Communication interface may also allow computing system to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example communication interface may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.

As illustrated in computing system may also include at least one display device coupled to communication infrastructure via a display adapter . Display device generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly display adapter generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics text and other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer as known in the art for display on display device .

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include at least one input device coupled to communication infrastructure via an input interface . Input device generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input either computer or human generated to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device include without limitation a keyboard a pointing device a speech recognition device or any other input device.

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include a primary storage device and a backup storage device coupled to communication infrastructure via a storage interface . Storage devices and generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. For example storage devices and may be a magnetic disk drive e.g. a so called hard drive a solid state drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash drive or the like. Storage interface generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices and and other components of computing system .

In certain embodiments storage devices and may be configured to read from and or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software data or other computer readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include without limitation a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical disk a flash memory device or the like. Storage devices and may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software data or other computer readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example storage devices and may be configured to read and write software data or other computer readable information. Storage devices and may also be a part of computing system or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.

Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely all of the components and devices illustrated in need not be present to practice the embodiments described and or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system may also employ any number of software firmware and or hardware configurations. For example one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program also referred to as computer software software applications computer readable instructions or computer control logic on a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium generally refers to any form of device carrier or medium capable of storing or carrying computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable storage media include without limitation transmission type media such as carrier waves and non transitory type media such as magnetic storage media e.g. hard disk drives and floppy disks optical storage media e.g. Compact Disks CDs or Digital Video Disks DVDs electronic storage media e.g. solid state drives and flash media and other distribution systems.

The computer readable storage medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer readable storage medium may then be stored in system memory and or various portions of storage devices and . When executed by processor a computer program loaded into computing system may cause processor to perform and or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and or hardware. For example computing system may be configured as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

Client systems and generally represent any type or form of computing device or system such as exemplary computing system in . Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a WAN a LAN a PAN or the Internet. In one example client systems and or and or servers and or may include all or a portion of system from .

As illustrated in one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Similarly one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Storage devices N and storage devices N generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. In certain embodiments storage devices N and storage devices N may represent Network Attached Storage NAS devices configured to communicate with servers and or Common Internet File System CIFS .

Servers and may also be connected to a Storage Area Network SAN fabric . SAN fabric generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric may facilitate communication between servers and and a plurality of storage devices N and or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric may also facilitate via network and servers and communication between client systems and and storage devices N and or intelligent storage array in such a manner that devices N and array appear as locally attached devices to client systems and . As with storage devices N and storage devices N storage devices N and intelligent storage array generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions.

In certain embodiments and with reference to exemplary computing system of a communication interface such as communication interface in may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N or intelligent storage array . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described and or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In at least one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N intelligent storage array or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

As detailed above computing system and or one or more components of network architecture may perform and or be a means for performing either alone or in combination with other elements one or more steps of an exemplary method for managing web browser histories.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a cloud computing or network based environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

In various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may facilitate multi tenancy within a cloud based computing environment. In other words the software modules described herein may configure a computing system e.g. a server to facilitate multi tenancy for one or more of the functions described herein. For example one or more of the software modules described herein may program a server to enable two or more clients e.g. customers to share an application that is running on the server. A server programmed in this manner may share an application operating system processing system and or storage system among multiple customers i.e. tenants . One or more of the modules described herein may also partition data and or configuration information of a multi tenant application for each customer such that one customer cannot access data and or configuration information of another customer.

According to various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may be implemented within a virtual environment. For example modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtual machine. As used herein the phrase virtual machine generally refers to any operating system environment that is abstracted from computing hardware by a virtual machine manager e.g. a hypervisor . Additionally or alternatively the modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtualization layer. As used herein the phrase virtualization layer generally refers to any data layer and or application layer that overlays and or is abstracted from an operating system environment. A virtualization layer may be managed by a software virtualization solution e.g. a file system filter that presents the virtualization layer as though it were part of an underlying base operating system. For example a software virtualization solution may redirect calls that are initially directed to locations within a base file system and or registry to locations within a virtualization layer.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a mobile computing environment. Mobile computing environments may be implemented by a wide range of mobile computing devices including mobile phones tablet computers e book readers personal digital assistants wearable computing devices e.g. computing devices with a head mounted display smartwatches etc. and the like. In some examples mobile computing environments may have one or more distinct features including for example reliance on battery power presenting only one foreground application at any given time remote management features touchscreen features location and movement data e.g. provided by Global Positioning Systems gyroscopes accelerometers etc. restricted platforms that restrict modifications to system level configurations and or that limit the ability of third party software to inspect the behavior of other applications controls to restrict the installation of applications e.g. to only originate from approved application stores etc. Various functions described herein may be provided for a mobile computing environment and or may interact with a mobile computing environment.

In addition all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of interact with consume data produced by and or produce data consumed by one or more systems for information management. As used herein the phrase information management may refer to the protection organization and or storage of data. Examples of systems for information management may include without limitation storage systems backup systems archival systems replication systems high availability systems data search systems virtualization systems and the like.

In some embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of produce data protected by and or communicate with one or more systems for information security. As used herein the phrase information security may refer to the control of access to protected data. Examples of systems for information security may include without limitation systems providing managed security services data loss prevention systems identity authentication systems access control systems encryption systems policy compliance systems intrusion detection and prevention systems electronic discovery systems and the like.

According to some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of communicate with and or receive protection from one or more systems for endpoint security. As used herein the phrase endpoint security may refer to the protection of endpoint systems from unauthorized and or illegitimate use access and or control. Examples of systems for endpoint protection may include without limitation anti malware systems user authentication systems encryption systems privacy systems spam filtering services and the like.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable storage media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

In addition one or more of the modules described herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a system for managing browser history to a system for managing records of file access or application usage. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a processor volatile memory non volatile memory and or any other portion of a physical computing device from one form to another by executing on the computing device storing data on the computing device and or otherwise interacting with the computing device.

The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.

Unless otherwise noted the terms connected to and coupled to and their derivatives as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as permitting both direct and indirect i.e. via other elements or components connection. In addition the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. Finally for ease of use the terms including and having and their derivatives as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

