---

title: Conductive sheet, touch panel, display device, method for producing said conductive sheet, and non-transitory recording medium
abstract: The present invention pertains to: a conductive sheet, a touch panel, a display device, a method for producing the conductive sheet, and a recording medium. In the present invention, the relative refractive index of a substrate with respect to a first protective layer, and/or the relative refractive index of the substrate with respect to a second protective layer is 0.86-1.15. The relative refractive index of a first substrate with respect to the first protective layer, and/or the relative refractive index of a second substrate with respect to the second protective layer is 0.86-1.15.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642245&OS=09642245&RS=09642245
owner: FUJIFILM Corporation
number: 09642245
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20131231
---
This application is a Continuation of International Application No. PCT JP2012 067620 filed on Jul. 10 2012 which was published under PCT Article 21 2 in Japanese which is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Japanese Patent Applications No. 2011 152534 filed on Jul. 11 2011 No. 2011 152759 filed on Jul. 11 2011 No. 2011 193505 filed on Sep. 6 2011 and No. 2011 193506 filed on Sep. 6 2011 the contents all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a conductive sheet a touch panel and a display device a method for producing the conductive sheet and a non transitory recording medium.

Recently electronic devices that incorporate touch panels therein have been spreading widely. Touch panels are mounted in many devices including small screen such as portable phones PDAs Personal Digital Assistants or the like. In the future it can be envisaged sufficiently that such touch panels will be incorporated into equipment having large sized screens that serve as PC Personal Computer displays or the like.

In the case of conventional touch panel electrodes indium tin oxide ITO Indium Tin Oxide primarily is used in view of the translucent properties thereof. It is known that the electric resistance per unit area of ITO is comparatively high compared to other metals or the like. More specifically in the case of ITO as the total area of the touch panel screen size increases the surface resistivity in the electrode as a whole tends to increase. As a result a problem arises in that the transmission speed of current between the electrodes becomes slower such that the time i.e. response speed required to detect the contact position after the touch panel has been touched is delayed.

Therefore various techniques have been proposed in which surface resistivity is decreased by constituting the electrodes in a plurality in the form of a lattice by means of thin wires thin metal wires made up from metal having low electrical resistance see for example International Publication No. 1995 27334 International Publication No. 1997 18508 and Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2003 099185 .

For example if the same mesh patterns are regularly arranged in a uniform manner there is a disadvantage that in relation to pixels constituting the display screen moir phenomena interference patterns are generated easily. Therefore various techniques have been proposed for suppressing noise granularity referred to generally as graininess which occur in conjunction with moir phenomena by arranging the mesh pattern regularly or irregularly thereby improving visibility of an observation target or object to be observed.

For example as shown in according to Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 137455 a window for a riding movable body and the shape of a pattern PT1 thereof in plan view are disclosed having a mesh layer in which rounded arcuate conductive wires from which portions have been cutout are arranged repeatedly in a lattice shape and respective ends of the arcuate wires are connected in the vicinity of a center portion of another adjacent arcuate wire . In accordance therewith it is noted that not only visibility but also shielding of electromagnetic waves as well as resistance to breakage can be improved.

Further as shown in according to Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 016700 a transparent conductive substrate and the shape of a pattern PT2 thereof as viewed in plan are disclosed which is manufactured using a solution i.e. a self organized metal particle solution which forms a mesh like structure naturally on the substrate if one side of the substrate is coated and then left untreated. In accordance therewith it is noted that an irregular mesh like structure can be obtained in which moir phenomena do not occur.

Moreover as shown in according to Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2009 302439 a light transmissive electromagnetic shield material and the shape of a pattern PT3 thereof as viewed in plan are disclosed in which an electromagnetic shield layer has a sea region structure in a sea island configuration wherein the shapes of island regions made up from openings surrounded by the electromagnetic shield layer differ mutually from each other. In accordance therewith it is noted that both optical transparency and electromagnetic shielding are improved without the occurrence of moir phenomena.

However in the case of using a metal which is a non translucent material as the electrode of a touch panel a difference in the amount of light transmitted through the electrode in accordance with the presence or absence of the thin metal wires is increased. Thus shading corresponding to the shape of the pattern formed by the electrode becomes significant which is easily visible to the user. In particular in the case of a mesh pattern in which different mesh shapes are arranged without gaps therebetween there is a disadvantage in that sensation of graininess or roughness grain noise occurs easily.

The present invention has been made with a view toward solving the aforementioned problems. An object of the present invention is to provide a conductive sheet a touch panel and a display device a method for producing the conductive sheet and a non transitory recording medium in which the occurrence of a sensation of roughness graininess caused by the pattern can be suppressed and wherein the visibility of an object to be observed i.e. an observation target can be improved significantly.

A conductive sheet according to the present invention comprises a substrate a first conductive portion made up from a plurality of thin metal wires and which is formed on one main surface of the substrate a first protective layer disposed on the one main surface in covering relation to the first conductive portion a second conductive portion made up from a plurality of thin metal wires and which is formed on another main surface of the substrate and a second protective layer disposed on the other main surface in covering relation to the second conductive portion wherein at least one of a relative index of refraction of the substrate with respect to the first protective layer and a relative index of refraction of the substrate with respect to the second protective layer is 0.86 to 1.15.

In the foregoing manner since at least one of the relative index of refraction of the substrate with respect to the first protective layer and the relative index of refraction of the substrate with respect to the second protective layer is 0.86 to 1.15 among the light that enters at a slight angle with respect to a direction normal to the substrate the amount of light that travels in a straight line at at least one of a boundary between the substrate and the first protective layer and a boundary between the substrate and the second protective layer is increased relatively. More specifically the amount of light that passes through the interior of the substrate without scattering increases uniformly irrespective of the position of the thin metal wires that are constituted from a non translucent material. Consequently contrast in optical density caused by the thin metal wires can be decreased thus making such contrast less visible to an observer user .

A conductive sheet according to the present invention comprises a first substrate a first conductive portion made up from a plurality of thin metal wires and which is formed on one main surface of the first substrate a first protective layer disposed on the one main surface of the first substrate in covering relation to the first conductive portion a second substrate a second conductive portion made up from a plurality of thin metal wires and which is formed on one main surface of the second substrate and a second protective layer disposed on the one main surface of the second substrate in covering relation to the second conductive portion wherein at least one of a relative index of refraction of the first substrate with respect to the first protective layer and a relative index of refraction of the second substrate with respect to the second protective layer is 0.86 to 1.15.

In the foregoing manner since at least one of the relative index of refraction of the first substrate with respect to the first protective layer and the relative index of refraction of the second substrate with respect to the second protective layer is 0.86 to 1.15 among the light that enters at a slight angle with respect to a direction normal to the first and second substrates the amount of light that travels in a straight line at at least one of a boundary between the first substrate and the first protective layer and a boundary between the second substrate and the second protective layer is increased relatively. More specifically the amount of light that passes through the interior of the substrates without scattering increases uniformly irrespective of the position of the thin metal wires that are constituted from a non translucent material. Consequently contrast in optical density caused by the thin metal wires can be decreased thus making such contrast less visible to an observer user .

Further preferably the first conductive portion comprises a plurality of first conductive patterns that extend in a first direction and are arranged in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction and a plurality of first dummy patterns disposed in interspatial portions between adjacent ones of the first conductive patterns and which are insulated electrically from each of the first conductive patterns wherein a wiring density of the first dummy patterns is equal to a wiring density of the first conductive patterns. In this case the optical reflectance in a planar region of the first dummy pattern with respect to light incident from the one main surface side coincides substantially with the optical reflectance in a planar region of the first conductive pattern. More specifically irrespective of the regular arrangement of the first conductive pattern the intensity distribution of the reflective light can be made more uniform. Consequently even with a structure in which electrodes made up from thin metal wires are formed on both surfaces of the conductive sheet visibility of the first conductive pattern caused by external light as a source of reflected light can be suppressed.

Further the first conductive portion preferably comprises a mesh pattern in which different mesh shapes are arranged randomly in plan view.

Furthermore the mesh pattern preferably satisfies at least one of the following first and second conditions. First condition In relation to a centroid position distribution power spectrum of the mesh shapes an average intensity on a spatial frequency side higher than a predetermined spatial frequency is greater than an average intensity on a spatial frequency band side lower than the predetermined spatial frequency. Second condition In a convolution integral of a power spectrum of the mesh pattern and human standard visual response characteristics respective integral values thereof within a spatial frequency band greater than or equal to of and less than or equal to of a spatial frequency corresponding to an average line width of the thin metal wires are greater than an integral value at zero spatial frequency.

Furthermore the mesh pattern preferably is formed based on output image data obtained by carrying out the following data generating process. Namely the process comprises a selection step of selecting plural positions from within a predetermined two dimensional image region a generation step of generating image data that represent a pattern of the mesh pattern based on the selected plural positions a calculation step of calculating a quantified evaluation value concerning noise characteristics of the mesh pattern based on the generated image data and a determination step of determining one of the image data as the output image data based on the calculated evaluation value and predetermined evaluation conditions.

Moreover in the data generating process the evaluation value preferably is calculated based on superimposed image data obtained by superimposing on the mesh pattern a structural pattern having a pattern which differs from the pattern of the mesh pattern and the output image data may be determined based on the evaluation value.

Further the second conductive portion preferably includes a plurality of second conductive patterns which extend in the second direction and are arranged in the first direction wherein by combining the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion a mesh pattern may be constructed in which the same or different mesh shapes are arranged as viewed in plan.

Further the mesh pattern preferably comprises a pattern in which different mesh shapes are arranged randomly.

Furthermore the mesh pattern preferably satisfies at least one of the following first and second conditions. First condition In relation to a centroid position distribution power spectrum of the mesh shapes an average intensity on a spatial frequency side higher than a predetermined spatial frequency is greater than an average intensity on a spatial frequency band side lower than the predetermined spatial frequency. Second condition In a convolution integral of a power spectrum of the mesh pattern and human standard visual response characteristics respective integral values thereof within a spatial frequency band greater than or equal to of and less than or equal to of a spatial frequency corresponding to an average line width of the thin metal wires are greater than an integral value at zero spatial frequency.

Furthermore the mesh pattern preferably is formed based on output image data obtained by carrying out the following data generating process. Namely the process comprises a selection step of selecting plural positions from within a predetermined two dimensional image region a generation step of generating image data that represent a pattern of the mesh pattern based on the selected plural positions a calculation step of calculating a quantified evaluation value concerning noise characteristics of the mesh pattern based on the generated image data and a determination step of determining one of the image data as the output image data based on the calculated evaluation value and predetermined evaluation conditions.

Moreover in the data generating process the evaluation value preferably is calculated based on superimposed image data obtained by superimposing on the mesh pattern a structural pattern having a pattern that differs from the pattern of the mesh pattern and the output image data may be determined based on the evaluation value.

In addition each of the mesh shapes may be determined according to a Voronoi diagram based on plural positions within one planar region.

Further a percentage of polygons having a number of vertices an occurrence frequency of which is highest in a histogram of the number of vertices in the mesh shapes preferably is 40 to 70 .

Furthermore each of the first conductive patterns may be inclined at a predetermined angle with respect to a direction in which the repeating shape is arranged.

A touch panel according to the present invention comprises the conductive sheet according to any one of aforementioned details and a detection control unit for detecting a contact position or a proximity position from a side of the one main surface of the conductive sheet.

A display device according to the present invention comprises the conductive sheet according to any one of the aforementioned details a detection control unit for detecting a contact position or a proximity position from a side of the one main surface of the conductive sheet and a display unit that displays an image on a display surface based on a display signal wherein the other main surface of the conductive sheet is disposed on the display surface in confronting relation to the display unit.

A method for producing a conductive sheet according to the present invention comprises a selection step of selecting plural positions from within a predetermined two dimensional image region a generation step of generating image data that represent a pattern of a mesh pattern based on the selected plural positions a calculation step of calculating a quantified evaluation value concerning noise characteristics of the mesh pattern based on the generated image data a determination step of determining one of the image data as output image data based on the calculated evaluation value and predetermined evaluation conditions an image cutting out step of cutting out first image data representing a pattern on one main surface side of a substrate and second image data representing a pattern on another main surface side of the substrate from the determined output image data and an outputting step of obtaining the conductive sheet on which the mesh pattern is formed on the substrate as viewed in plan by output formation of a wire material on the one main surface side of the substrate based on the cut out first image data and by output formation of the wire material on the other main surface side of the substrate based on the cut out second image data.

A non transitory recording medium according to the present invention stores a program therein for producing image data that outputs and forms a wire material on a substrate the program enabling a computer to function as a position selecting unit for selecting plural positions from within a predetermined two dimensional image region an image data generating unit for generating image data that represent a pattern of a mesh pattern based on the plural positions selected by the position selecting unit an evaluation value calculating unit for calculating a quantified evaluation value concerning noise characteristics of the mesh pattern based on the image data that is generated by the image data generating unit a data determining unit for determining one of the image data as output image data based on the evaluation value calculated by the evaluation value calculating unit and predetermined evaluation conditions and an image cutout unit for cutting out first image data representing a pattern on one main surface side of the substrate and second image data representing a pattern on another main surface side of the substrate from the output image data determined by the data determining unit.

In accordance with the conductive sheet the touch panel and the display device of the present invention at least one of a relative index of refraction of the substrate with respect to the first protective layer and a relative index of refraction of the substrate with respect to the second protective layer is 0.86 to 1.15. Therefore among the light that enters at a slight angle with respect to a direction normal to the substrate the amount of light that travels in a straight line at at least one of a boundary between the substrate and the first protective layer and a boundary between the substrate and the second protective layer is increased relatively.

In accordance with the conductive sheet the touch panel and the display device of the present invention at least one of the relative index of refraction of the first substrate with respect to the first protective layer and the relative index of refraction of the second substrate with respect to the second protective layer is 0.86 to 1.15. Therefore among the light that enters at a slight angle with respect to a direction normal to the first and second substrates the amount of light that travels in a straight line at at least one of a boundary between the first substrate and the first protective layer and a boundary between the second substrate and the second protective layer is increased relatively.

More specifically the amount of light that passes through the interior of the substrate without scattering increases uniformly irrespective of the position of the thin metal wires that are constituted from a non translucent material. Consequently contrast in optical density caused by the thin metal wires can be decreased thus making such contrast less visible to an observer user .

In accordance with the method for producing a conductive sheet and the recording medium of the present invention image data are created that represent a pattern of the mesh pattern based on a plurality of positions selected from within a predetermined two dimensional region a quantified evaluation value concerning noise characteristics of the mesh pattern is calculated based on the generated image data and one of the image data is determined as the output image data based on the calculated evaluation value and predetermined evaluation conditions. Therefore the shape of the mesh pattern can be determined having noise characteristics that satisfy the aforementioned predetermined conditions. Stated otherwise by suitably controlling the noise characteristics of the mesh pattern sensation of such noise can be reduced. In addition since first image data representing the pattern on one main surface and second image data representing the pattern on the other main surface can be cut out from the same output image data even in the case that the wire material is to be output and formed in two layers visibility of the mesh pattern can be maintained as viewed in plan.

The aforementioned objects characteristics and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following descriptions of preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Below with reference to the accompanying drawings explanations shall be given of preferred embodiments in relation to a conductive sheet a touch panel in which the conductive sheet is incorporated and a display device according to the present invention. Further explanations shall be given in detail in relation to a manufacturing method for producing the conductive sheet as well as a manufacturing apparatus and a non transitory recording medium program for carrying out the method. For facilitating explanation cases may occur in which the term conductive sheet is used to refer collectively to conductive sheets A through F and according to preferred embodiments or exemplary modifications to be described later.

Moreover the significance of the dash to indicate numerical ranges in the present specification conveys the meaning that the numerical values appearing before and after the dash include therein lower limit numerical values and upper limit numerical values.

As shown in and a conductive sheet A according to a first embodiment includes a transparent substrate substrate . The transparent substrate which is highly translucent and possesses insulative properties is made from a material such as resin glass silicone or the like. As suitable resins there may be cited PET Polyethylene Terephthalate PMMA Polymethyl Methacrylate PP Polypropylene PS Polystyrene TAC Triacetyl Cellulose COC Cycloolefin Copolymer etc.

A first conductive portion is formed on one main surface a side in the direction of the arrow s1 in of the transparent substrate . The first conductive portion includes a mesh pattern formed by openings and thin metal wires hereinafter referred to as thin metal wires and also as thin metal wires . The thin metal wires are made from a metal material such as for example gold Au silver Ag copper Cu or the like.

The wire width of the thin metal wires can be selected to be less than or equal to 30 m. In the event that the conductive sheet A is applied to a touch panel the wire width of the thin metal wires preferably is greater than or equal to 0.1 m and less than or equal to 15 m more preferably is greater than or equal to 1 m and less than or equal to 9 m still more preferably is greater than or equal to 1 m and less than or equal to 7 m and still more preferably is greater than or equal to 1 m and less than or equal to 5 m. The upper limit value of the wire width preferably is 5 m more preferably is 4 m and still more preferably is 3 m. The lower limit value of the wire width preferably is 0.5 m more preferably is 0.8 m and still more preferably is 1 m. In the case of the random pattern exemplified in from the standpoints of visibility and power characteristics the line width of the thin metal wires more preferably is in the vicinity of 3 m.

In particular the first conductive portion has a mesh pattern in which different mesh shapes are arranged randomly without gaps. In other words the mesh pattern is a random pattern without regularity uniformity in each of the mesh shapes . For example within the mesh pattern the mesh shape shown in hatching is of a rectangular shape formed by a thin metal wire that connects a vertex C1 and a vertex C2 by a straight line a thin metal wire that connects the vertex C2 and a vertex C3 by a straight line a thin metal wire that connects the vertex C3 and a vertex C4 by a straight line and a thin metal wire that connects the vertex C4 and the vertex C1 by a straight line. As will be understood from the figure any one of such mesh shapes is a polygonal shape having at least three sides.

Below in the present specification the term polygonal implies not only polygons that are complete polygons geometrically but also includes the meaning of substantially polygonal in which minor changes may be added to a complete polygonal shape. As examples of such minor changes partial defects or the like may be introduced to each side thin metal wires constituting the mesh shapes or alternatively micro point like or line like elements as compared with the illustrated mesh shapes may be added to the mesh shapes .

A first protective layer is bonded through a first adhesive layer substantially over the entire surface of the first conductive portion so as to cover the thin metal wires . As suitable materials for the first adhesive layer wet laminating adhesives dry laminating adhesives or hot melt adhesives etc. may be used.

Similar to the transparent substrate the first protective layer is made from a highly translucent material such as resin glass silicone or the like. The index of refraction n1 of the first protective layer is of a value equivalent to the index of refraction n0 of the transparent substrate or a value close to the index of refraction n0 thereof. In this case the relative index of refraction nr1 of the transparent substrate with respect to the first protective layer is of a value close to 1.

The index of refraction as used in the present specification implies an index of refraction in relation to light having a wavelength of 589.3 nm sodium D line and for example in the case of a resin is defined by the international standard ISO 14782 1999 corresponding to JIS K 7105 . Further the relative index of refraction nr1 of the transparent substrate with respect to the first protective layer is defined by nr1 n1 n0 . The relative index of refraction nr1 may reside within a range of being greater than or equal to 0.85 and less than or equal to 1.17 more preferably being greater than or equal to 0.86 and less than or equal to 1.15 and still more preferably being greater than or equal to 0.91 and less than or equal to 1.08.

In the case that the transparent substrate is made from PET by adopting as a material for the first protective layer for example PCTFE Polychloro Trifluoroethylene PMMA PS PET PTU Polythiourethane or high refractive index glass etc. the above relationship concerning the index of refraction can be satisfied. The same applies to a second protective layer to be described later.

Hereinbelow respective parts including the first conductive portion the first adhesive layer and the first protective layer that are formed on the one main surface the side in the direction of the arrow s1 in of the transparent substrate may also be referred to collectively as a first stacked portion

Incidentally a second conductive portion is formed on another main surface a side in the direction of the arrow s2 in of the transparent substrate . The second conductive portion includes a mesh pattern formed by openings and thin metal wires in the same manner as the first conductive portion . The transparent substrate is made from an insulating material so that the second conductive portion is kept under a condition of being electrically insulated from the first conductive portion

A second protective layer is bonded through a second adhesive layer substantially over the entire surface of the second conductive portion so as to cover the thin metal wires . The material of the second adhesive layer may be the same material or a different material from that of the first adhesive layer . Also the material of the second protective layer may be the same material or a different material from that of the first protective layer

The index of refraction n2 of the second protective layer is equal to or is near to the value of the index of refraction n0 of the transparent substrate . In this case the relative index of refraction nr2 of the transparent substrate with respect to the second protective layer is of a value close to 1. Herein the definitions of the index of refraction and relative index of refraction are the same as described above. Further the relative index of refraction nr2 of the transparent substrate with respect to the second protective layer is defined by nr2 n2 n0 . The relative index of refraction nr2 may reside within a range of being greater than or equal to 0.85 and less than or equal to 1.17 more preferably being greater than or equal to 0.86 and less than or equal to 1.15 and still more preferably being greater than or equal to 0.91 and less than or equal to 1.08.

Hereinbelow respective parts including the second conductive portion the second adhesive layer and the second protective layer that are formed on the other main surface the side in the direction of the arrow s2 in of the transparent substrate may also be referred to collectively as a second stacked portion

As described above the conductive sheet A includes the transparent substrate the first conductive portion made up from a plurality of thin metal wires and formed on the one main surface of the transparent substrate the first protective layer disposed on the one main surface in covering relation to the first conductive portion the second conductive portion made up from a plurality of thin metal wires and formed on the other main surface of the transparent substrate and the second protective layer disposed on the other main surface in covering relation to the second conductive portion

The conductive sheet A is applied for example to a touch panel of a display unit display device . The display unit may be constituted by a liquid crystal panel a plasma panel an organic EL Electro Luminescence panel an inorganic EL panel or the like.

As shown with partial omission in the display unit is composed of a plurality of pixels which are arranged in the form of a matrix. One pixel is constituted by three sub pixels red sub pixel blue sub pixel and green sub pixel which are arranged in the horizontal direction. One sub pixel is of a vertically long rectangular shape. The arrangement pitch of the pixels in the horizontal direction horizontal pixel pitch Ph and the arrangement pitch of the pixels in the vertical direction vertical pixel pitch Pv are substantially the same. Stated otherwise the shape refer to the shaded region in which the one pixel and a black matrix pattern member surrounding the one pixel are constituted is of a substantially square shape. Further an aspect ratio of the one pixel is not 1 but rather the length in the horizontal direction width is greater than the length in the vertical direction height . In the case that the conductive sheet is disposed on the display panel of the display unit having the aforementioned pixel arrangement almost no interference of spatial frequency occurs between the randomly formed thin metal wires and the period array period at which the pixels are arranged. Thus generation of moir phenomena is suppressed.

Next with reference to a description shall be given concerning the display device in which the conductive sheet A according to the first embodiment is incorporated. An example of a projection capacitive type of touch panel will be presented. Further the conductive sheets B through F according to other embodiments can also be incorporated in a similar manner in the display device .

As shown in the display device includes a display unit see which is capable of displaying at least one of color and monochromatic images a touch panel that detects a contact position from an input surface on a side in the direction of the arrow Z1 and a casing that accommodates the display unit and the touch panel therein. A user is capable of accessing the touch panel through a large opening that is provided on one surface on the side in the direction of the arrow Z1 of the casing .

The touch panel comprises apart from the aforementioned conductive sheet A see and a cover member that is stacked on one surface on a side in the direction of the arrow Z1 of the conductive sheet A a flexible substrate connected electrically via a cable to the conductive sheet A and a detection control unit disposed on the flexible substrate .

On one surface the side in the direction of the arrow Z1 of the display unit the conductive sheet is bonded through an adhesive layer . The other main surface side the second conductive portion side of the conductive sheet A is disposed on the display screen in confronting relation to the display unit .

The cover member functions as an input surface while covering one surface of the conductive sheet A. Further by preventing direct contact with a contact body e.g. a finger or a stylus the cover member is capable of suppressing abrasion adherence of dust etc. thereby enabling the conductivity of the conductive sheet A to remain stable.

The material of the cover member may be glass or a resin film for example. Under a condition in which one surface on the side in the direction of the arrow Z2 of the cover member is coated with silicon oxide or the like the one surface of the conductive sheet A on the side in the direction of the arrow Z1 may be placed in intimate contact firmly against the cover member . Further for preventing damage due to rubbing or the like the conductive sheet A and the cover member may be adhered to one another by bonding.

The flexible substrate is an electronic substrate equipped with flexibility. In the illustrated example although the flexible substrate is fixed to an inner wall side surface of the casing the position at which the flexible substrate is arranged may be changed in various ways. In a case where the contact body which acts as a conductor comes into contact or into proximity with the input surface the detection control unit forms an electric circuit for capturing a change in electrostatic capacitance between the conductive sheet A and the contact body thereby to detect the contact position or the proximate position thereof.

As shown in on the one main surface of the conductive sheet A on a side in the direction of the arrow Z2 as viewed in plan there are provided a first sensor part which is disposed in the display area of the display unit see and and first terminal wire parts a so called frame which are disposed on an outer peripheral region of the display area.

The appearance and shape of the conductive sheet A is rectangular as viewed in plan and the appearance and shape of the first sensor part also is rectangular. Among the first terminal wire parts on a peripheral edge portion of the conductive sheet on one side thereof parallel to the direction of the arrow Y on a central portion in the lengthwise direction thereof plural first terminals are arrayed in the direction of the arrow Y. Along one side of the first sensor part a side parallel to the direction of the arrow Y in the illustrated example plural first wire connectors are arrayed in a line. First terminal wire patterns which are led out from the respective first wire connectors are routed toward the first terminals on the outer peripheral region of the display area and the first wire connectors are connected electrically to the respective first terminals

A site corresponding to the first sensor part includes two or more first conductive patterns mesh patterns formed by a plurality of thin metal wires see . The first conductive patterns extend respectively in a direction first direction of the arrow X and are arranged in a direction second direction of the arrow Y perpendicular to the direction of the arrow X. Further each of the first conductive patterns is constituted by connection of two or more first sensing units in series in the direction of the arrow X. The first sensing units which are substantially diamond shaped in profile each include the same profile shape respectively. Between adjacent first sensing units first connectors are formed which serve to connect the first sensing units electrically. More specifically via the first connectors the vertex of one of the first sensing units is connected to the vertex of another of the first sensing units which is adjacent to the one first sensing units in the direction of the arrow X.

On one end side of each of the first conductive patterns the first connectors are not formed on open ends of the first sensing units . On the other end side of each of the first conductive patterns the first wire connectors are provided respectively on ends of the first sensing units . In addition each of the first conductive patterns is connected electrically via the respective first wire connectors to the first terminal wire patterns

Further substantially diamond shaped first interspatial portions are formed respectively each of which is surrounded by pairs i.e. two pairs of first sensing units from among the adjacent first conductive patterns

As shown in each of the first sensing units is constituted by combining at least two first mesh elements . The shape of each first mesh element is a polygonal having at least three sides similar to the aforementioned mesh shapes see . The first connector which is connected between adjacent first sensing units is constituted from at least one of the first mesh elements

Moreover the first mesh elements which constitute peripheral edge portions of each of the first sensing units may be closed spaces or open spaces in terms of topology topologically . The same applies to the first connectors . Further between adjacent ones of the first conductive patterns first insulators which are electrically insulated are disposed respectively.

On the other hand as shown in on the other main surface of the conductive sheet A on a side in the direction of the arrow Z1 as viewed in plan there are provided a second sensor part which is disposed in the display area of the display unit see and and second terminal wire parts a so called frame which are disposed on an outer peripheral region of the display area.

The appearance and shape of the conductive sheet is rectangular as viewed in plan and the appearance and shape of the second sensor part also is rectangular. Among the second terminal wire parts on a peripheral edge portion of the conductive sheet on one side thereof parallel to the direction of the arrow Y on a central portion in the lengthwise direction plural second terminals are arrayed in the direction of the arrow Y. Along one side of the second sensor part a side parallel to the direction of the arrow X in the illustrated example plural second wire connectors e.g. odd numbered second wire connectors are arrayed in a line. Along the other side of the second sensor part a side opposite to the aforementioned one side plural second wire connectors e.g. even numbered second wire connectors are arranged in a line. Second terminal wire patterns which are led out from the respective second wire connectors are routed toward the second terminals on the outer peripheral region of the display area and the second wire connectors are connected electrically to the confronting second terminals respectively.

A site corresponding to the second sensor part includes two or more second conductive patterns mesh patterns formed by a plurality of thin metal wires see . The second conductive patterns extend respectively in a direction second direction of the arrow Y and are arranged in a direction first direction of the arrow X perpendicular to the direction of the arrow Y. Further each of the second conductive patterns is constituted by connection of two or more second sensing units in series in the direction of the arrow Y. The second sensing units which are substantially diamond shaped in profile each include the same profile shape respectively. Between adjacent second sensing units second connectors are formed which serve to connect the second sensing units electrically. More specifically via the second connectors the vertex of one of the second sensing units is connected to the vertex of another of the second sensing units which is adjacent to the one second sensing units in the direction of the arrow Y.

On one end side of each of the second conductive patterns the second connector is not formed on an open end of the second sensing unit . On the other end side of each of the second conductive patterns the second wire connector is provided respectively on an end of the second sensing unit . In addition the second conductive patterns are connected electrically via the respective second wire connectors to the respective second terminal wire patterns

Further substantially diamond shaped second interspatial portions are formed respectively each of which is surrounded by pairs i.e. two pairs of second sensing units from among the adjacent second conductive patterns

As shown in each of the second sensing units is constituted by combining at least two second mesh elements . The shape of each second mesh element is a polygonal having at least three sides similar to the aforementioned mesh shapes see . Each of second connectors which is connected between adjacent second sensing units is constituted from at least one of the second mesh elements

Moreover the second mesh elements which constitute peripheral edge portions of each of the second sensing units may be closed spaces or open spaces in terms of topology topologically . The same applies to the second connectors

Further between adjacent ones of the second conductive patterns second insulators which are electrically insulated are disposed respectively.

As shown in in a plan view of the conductive sheet A comprising the first sensor part and the second sensor part a configuration is provided in which the second conductive patterns which are formed on the other surface on the side in the direction of the arrow Z2 are arranged in an embedded manner in interspaces part of the first interspatial portions of the first conductive patterns which are formed on the one surface on the side in the direction of the arrow Z1 . Further in a planar region in which the profile of the first conductive patterns overlaps with the profile of the second conductive patterns positions of the thin metal wires of both of the conductive patterns match completely. As a result in a case where the conductive sheet A is viewed in plan a form is brought about in which multiple polygons mesh shapes are spread all over. Further since the thin metal wires at respective peripheral edge portions of the first sensing units and the second sensing units are arranged in a seamless manner respectively as viewed in plan the outline diamond shaped pattern thereof no longer is visible.

The length of one side of the first sensing units and the second sensing units preferably is 3 10 mm and more preferably is 4 6 mm. In the case that the length of the one side is less than the aforementioned lower limit value and the conductive sheet A is applied to a touch panel since the detected electrostatic capacitance of the first sensing units and the second sensing units decreases the possibility for detection failures to occur increases. On the other hand if the aforementioned upper limit value is exceeded the detection precision of the contact position tends to decrease. From the same standpoint as noted above the average length of one side of the polygons first mesh elements second mesh elements preferably is 100 400 m more preferably is 150 300 m and most preferably is 210 250 m. In the case that the sides of the polygons are within the aforementioned ranges transparency can be more suitably maintained and the display screen can be viewed without discomfort in a case where the conductive sheet is attached to the front of the display unit .

Returning to the width w1 of the first connectors preferably is 0.2 1.0 mm and more preferably is 0.4 0.8 mm. If the width w1 is less than the aforementioned lower limit value since the number of wires connecting the respective first sensing units decreases inter electrode resistance increases. On the other hand if the width w1 is in excess of the aforementioned upper limit value since the overlapping area of the second sensing units increases the amount of noise is increased. Note that the same width w1 also applies in relation to the width of the second connectors see .

Further the form shown in may also be realized by disposing dummy patterns a pattern made up of insulated thin metal wires in the vicinity of at least one of the first sensing units and the second sensing units and thereby complementing the interspaces between the first sensing units and the second sensing units with such dummy patterns. In this case the width w2 that separates the first sensing units and the second sensing units preferably is 0.1 0.6 mm and more preferably is 0.2 0.5 mm. In the case that the width w2 is less than the aforementioned lower limit value since the amount of change in electrostatic capacitance accompanying contact or proximity of the contact body becomes smaller the signal amount tends to decrease. On the other hand if the width w2 exceeds the aforementioned upper limit value since the density of the first sensing units is decreased the resolution of the sensor tends to decrease.

Next a description will be made with reference to concerning the structure of a conductive sheet B according to a first modification of the first embodiment. Constituent elements thereof which exhibit the same functions as those according to the conductive sheet A are denoted using the same reference characters and detailed description of such features is omitted. The same applies to other modifications and embodiments to be described later.

As shown in and at a site corresponding to the first sensor part there are further included at least two first dummy patterns mesh patterns which are formed by plural thin metal wires see . The first dummy patterns are arranged respectively in first interspatial portions see that reside between adjacent first conductive patterns . The first dummy patterns which are substantially diamond shaped in profile are disposed while being separated at a predetermined interval from each of the first conductive patterns first sensing units and first connectors . More specifically the first dummy patterns are placed under a condition in which they are insulated electrically from the respective first conductive patterns

Moreover the interval width is extremely small compared with the side length of the first sensing units . Accordingly in the first sensor part the thin metal wires are arranged with substantially uniform density over the entire surface thereof.

For facilitating explanation in mesh shapes are denoted but only in relation to one of the first dummy patterns in a center right portion of the figure . In relation to the other first dummy patterns profiles thereof are shown in dashed lines while the interior shapes thereof are omitted from illustration.

As shown in each of the first dummy patterns is combined with at least two first mesh elements . The shape of each first mesh element in the same manner as the aforementioned mesh shapes see is of a polygonal shape having at least three sides. Further the first mesh elements which constitute peripheral edge portions of each of the first dummy patterns may be closed spaces or open spaces in terms of topology topologically .

The wiring density of the first dummy patterns is equivalent to the wiring density of the first conductive patterns first sensing units and first connectors . In this case the optical reflectance in a planar region of the first dummy patterns matches the optical reflectance within the planar region of the first conductive patterns . If the wire width of the thin metal wires is constant it follows that a high correlation exists between wire density and optical reflectance.

Moreover as used in the present specification the phrase wiring density is equivalent implies not only a case of complete equivalence but is a concept including substantial equivalence i.e. lying in a range in which the density ratio generally is 0.8 1.2 . More specifically a difference in optical reflectance is acceptable insofar as such a difference cannot be detected visually by humans observers . Further the measurement area of the wiring density of the thin metal wires may be 1 mmor greater taking into consideration measurement precision etc.

Further the distance between each of the first conductive patterns and each of the first dummy patterns may be constant including substantially constant irrespective of positions thereof. This is preferable because in such a case the wiring density of the thin metal wires approaches uniformity.

Furthermore the coverage arrangement percentage of the first dummy patterns with respect to the first interspatial portions preferably lies generally in a range of 30 to 95 and more preferably in a range of 70 to 95 .

Moreover the profile of each of the first dummy patterns may take the form of various shapes including triangular rectangular circular etc. For example the profile shape in the example of an outline diamond shape is shown of each first dummy pattern may be of the same shape as or similar in shape to the first sensing units

As shown in as viewed in plan in the conductive sheet B equipped with the first sensor part and the second sensor part see a configuration is provided in which the second conductive patterns which are formed on the other surface on the side in the direction of the arrow Z2 are arranged in an embedded manner in interspaces of the first conductive patterns and the first dummy patterns which are formed on the one surface on the side in the direction of the arrow Z1 . Further in a planar region in which profiles of the first conductive patterns and the first dummy patterns overlap with profiles of the second conductive patterns positions of the thin metal wires of both of the patterns match completely. As a result in a case where the conductive sheet B is viewed in plan a form is brought about in which multiple polygons are spread all over.

Next a description will be made with reference to concerning the structure of a conductive sheet C according to a second modification of the first embodiment.

In relation to the conductive sheet the first conductive portion is formed on one main surface on a side in the direction of the arrow s1 in of the transparent substrate without gaps substantially over the entire surface thereof and the second conductive portion is formed on the other main surface on a side in the direction of the arrow s2 in without gaps substantially over the entire surface thereof.

As shown in and at a site corresponding to the second sensor part there are further included at least two second dummy patterns mesh patterns which are formed by plural thin metal wires see . The second dummy patterns are arranged respectively in second interspatial portions see that reside between adjacent second conductive patterns . The second dummy patterns which are substantially diamond shaped in profile are disposed while being separated at a predetermined interval from each of the second conductive patterns second sensing units and second connectors . More specifically the second dummy patterns are placed under a condition in which they are insulated electrically from the second conductive patterns

For facilitating explanation in respective mesh shapes are denoted in detail but only in relation to one of the second dummy patterns in a center lower portion of the figure . In relation to the other second dummy patterns profiles thereof are shown in dashed lines while the interior shapes thereof are omitted from illustration. In addition the wiring density of the second dummy patterns is equivalent to the wiring density of the second conductive patterns second sensing units and second connectors . The definition of the phrase wiring density is equivalent is the same as that described above and further description thereof is omitted.

As shown in as viewed in plan in the conductive sheet C equipped with the first sensor part see and the second sensor part a configuration is provided in which the second conductive patterns and the second dummy patterns which are formed on the other surface on the side in the direction of the arrow Z2 are arranged in an embedded manner in interspaces of the first conductive patterns and the first dummy patterns which are formed on the one surface on the side in the direction of the arrow Z1 . Further in a planar region in which the profile of the first conductive patterns and the first dummy patterns overlap with the profile of the second conductive patterns and the second dummy patterns positions of the thin metal wires of both conductive patterns match completely. As a result in a case where the conductive sheet C is viewed in plan a form is brought about in which multiple polygons are spread all over.

With the conductive sheet C the respective thin metal wires are disposed such that positions thereof overlap completely over substantially the entire area. However the thin metal wires may also be disposed at mutually complementing positions between the first sensor part and the second sensor part . More specifically the thin metal wires may be provided as a complement in line units or area units and the form thereof is not of concern insofar as the functions of the conductive sheet can be exhibited. By reducing as much as possible the range in which the thin metal wires overlap it is possible to suppress the occurrence of line thickening caused by the shifting of the positions where the thin metal wires are formed. As a result visibility of the conductive sheet can be further improved.

Further by providing the thin metal wires without gaps on both sides of the transparent substrate in a case where the conductive sheet is incorporated in the display device see whether placed in either a forward or rearward facing manner the advantages of the present invention can be achieved.

Next a description shall be made with reference to etc. concerning the structure of a conductive sheet D according to a second embodiment. is a cross sectional view with partial omission of the conductive sheet D according to the second embodiment.

As shown in the conductive sheet D is constituted by stacking in order from below a second sheet member and a first sheet member . The first sheet member includes a first transparent substrate first substrate and the second sheet member includes a second transparent substrate second substrate . The first transparent substrate and the second transparent substrate are made from a highly translucent material having insulation properties such as resin glass silicone or the like. As suitable resins there may be cited PET PMMA PP PS TAC etc.

The first sheet member includes a first conductive portion formed on one main surface on a side in the direction of the arrow s1 of the first transparent substrate . A first protective layer is bonded through a first adhesive layer substantially over the entire surface of the first conductive portion so as to cover the thin metal wires . In a case where the relative index of refraction of the transparent substrate with respect to the first protective layer is defined as nr1 similar to the first embodiment the relative index of refraction nr1 may reside within a range of being greater than or equal to 0.85 and less than or equal to 1.17 more preferably being greater than or equal to 0.86 and less than or equal to 1.15 and still more preferably being greater than or equal to 0.91 and less than or equal to 1.08.

The second sheet member includes a second conductive portion formed on one main surface on a side in the direction of the arrow s1 of the second transparent substrate . A second protective layer is bonded through a second adhesive layer substantially over the entire surface of the second conductive portion so as to cover the thin metal wires . In a case where the relative index of refraction of the transparent substrate with respect to the second protective layer is defined as nr2 similar to the first embodiment the relative index of refraction nr2 may reside within a range of being greater than or equal to 0.85 and less than or equal to 1.17 more preferably being greater than or equal to 0.86 and less than or equal to 1.15 and still more preferably being greater than or equal to 0.91 and less than or equal to 1.08.

In the foregoing manner the conductive sheet D includes the first transparent substrate the first conductive portion made up from a plurality of thin metal wires formed on one main surface of the first transparent substrate the first protective layer disposed on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate in covering relation to the first conductive portion the second transparent substrate the second conductive portion made up from a plurality of thin metal wires formed on one main surface of the second transparent substrate and the second protective layer disposed on the one main surface of the second transparent substrate in covering relation to the second conductive portion

On the one main surface side of the first transparent substrate a first sensor part which is the same as that of the first embodiment is provided see and . Further on the one main surface side of the second transparent substrate a second sensor part which is the same as that of the first embodiment is provided see and .

Provided in this manner as shown in in a case where the conductive sheet D comprising the first sensor part and the second sensor part is viewed in plan a condition is brought about in which plural polygons mesh shapes are spread all over.

If the conductive sheet D is constructed as described above the same advantages as those of the first embodiment can be obtained. Moreover another layer for example an adhesive layer may be interposed between the first sheet member and the second sheet member . Further if kept in an insulated state the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion can be disposed in confronting relation to each other.

Next a description will be made with reference to concerning the structure of a conductive sheet E according to a first modification of the second embodiment. is a partial schematic cross sectional view of the conductive sheet E according to the first modification. Concerning the conductive sheet E the first conductive portion is formed without gaps substantially over the entire surface on one main surface on a side in the direction of the arrow s1 of the first transparent substrate

More specifically the first sensor part see and is disposed on the side in the direction of the arrow s1 of the conductive sheet E and the second sensor part see and is disposed on the side in the direction of the arrow s2 of the conductive sheet E. Consequently as shown in in a case where the conductive sheet E is viewed in plan a form is brought about in which multiple polygons are spread all over.

Next a description will be made with reference to concerning the structure of a conductive sheet F according to a second modification of the second embodiment. is a partial schematic cross sectional view of the conductive sheet F according to the second modification. Concerning the conductive sheet F the first conductive portion is formed without gaps substantially over the entire surface on one main surface on a side in the direction of the arrow s1 of the first transparent substrate . In addition the second conductive portion is formed without gaps substantially over the entire surface on one main surface on a side in the direction of the arrow s1 of the second transparent substrate

More specifically the first sensor part see and is disposed on the side in the direction of the arrow s1 of the conductive sheet F and the second sensor part see and is disposed on the side in the direction of the arrow s2 of the conductive sheet F. Consequently as shown in in a case where the conductive sheet F is viewed in plan a form is brought about in which multiple polygons are spread all over.

Next a description will be made with reference to and concerning the structure of a first sensor part and a second sensor part according to a third modification of the second embodiment. is a partially enlarged plan view of the first sensor part according to the third modification. is a partially enlarged plan view of the second sensor part according to the third modification.

In and for facilitating explanation only an outline of the mesh pattern formed by multiple thin metal wires is denoted by single lines. More specifically if portions of each of the single lines shown in and were enlarged the structure of the mesh pattern shown in would become apparent.

As shown in at a site corresponding to the first sensor part two or more first conductive patterns formed by multiple thin metal wires are included. The first conductive patterns extend respectively in the direction of the arrow Y and are arranged at equal intervals in the direction of the arrow X perpendicular to the direction of the arrow Y. Further the first conductive patterns differ from the second conductive patterns see etc. and are strip shaped patterns having substantially constant widths. Lattice shaped first dummy patterns are disposed respectively between each of the first conductive patterns . The first dummy patterns are constituted from four elongate line patterns that extend in the direction of the arrow Y and are arranged at equal intervals and a plurality of short line patterns disposed perpendicularly to the four elongate line patterns respectively. The respective short line patterns are of the same length repeated in units of four each which are arrayed at equal intervals with respect to the direction of the arrow Y.

As shown in at a site corresponding to the second sensor part two or more second conductive patterns formed by multiple thin metal wires are included. The second conductive patterns extend respectively in the direction of the arrow X and are arranged at equal intervals in the direction of the arrow Y perpendicular to the direction of the arrow X. Further the second conductive patterns differ from the second conductive patterns see etc. and are strip shaped patterns having substantially constant widths. Straight line shaped second dummy patterns which extend in the direction of the arrow X are arranged in plurality between each of the second conductive patterns . The respective second dummy patterns are of the same length repeated in units of four each which are arrayed at equal intervals with respect to the direction of the arrow Y.

More specifically as viewed in plan by mutually complementing the patterns which are formed in the first sensor part see and the second sensor part see a lattice shape pattern is formed with one lattice element as one unit. If constructed in this manner the same advantages as those of the first and second embodiments can be obtained.

Next with reference to an explanation shall be given concerning advantages and effects obtained by maintaining the relative index of refraction nr1 of the transparent substrate with respect to the first protective layer in the vicinity of 1. To facilitate understanding parts of the structure of the conductive sheet are omitted and only the transparent substrate the first conductive portion and the first protective layer are denoted.

As shown in parallel light which is irradiated from the side of the display unit see enters into the interior of the transparent substrate and travels in straight lines in the direction of the arrow Z1. In addition at a first interface between the transparent substrate and the thin metal wires the parallel light is reflected as a reflected light component substantially completely in the direction of the arrow Z2. More specifically corresponding to the presence or absence of the thin metal wires which are formed from a non translucent material the difference in the amount of light that is transmitted through the conductive sheet is large. As a result shading becomes significant responsive to the shape of the mesh pattern making it easy for moir phenomena to be generated. In contrast thereto in the case of a conductive sheet that uses a translucent conductive material typically ITO the above described effect virtually is not imparted.

Next an optical phenomenon that occurs in the case that the difference in the index of refraction between the transparent substrate and the first protective layer is large i.e. in the event that the relative index of refraction nr1 is far from the value 1 will be explained with reference to and .

As shown in light oblique light which is incident at a slight angle with respect to the direction of the arrow Z1 is irradiated into the interior of the transparent substrate and travels in a straight line to a second interface between the first conductive portion openings and the first protective layer . In addition concerning the oblique light due to a refraction phenomenon caused by the second interface a portion of the light linear component is transmitted through the first protective layer and the remainder of the light reflected component is reflected. At this time since the relative index of refraction nr1 is far from the value 1 interfacial transmittance is decreased and the amount of light of the linear component or the reflected component decreases or increases relatively.

For example as shown in a light intensity I Iw at positions corresponding to the openings and a light intensity I Ib at positions corresponding to the thin metal wires are transmitted respectively and detected. In this case the optical density due to the thin metal wires is represented by D1 log Ib Iw on the basis of the detected light intensity at the openings .

Next an optical phenomenon that occurs in the case that the difference in the index of refraction between the transparent substrate and the first protective layer is small i.e. in the event that the relative index of refraction nr1 is near to the value 1 will be explained with reference to and .

In the case that the relative index of refraction nr1 is near to the value 1 as can be easily derived from optical considerations the interfacial transmittance approaches 1 the interfacial reflectance approaches 0 . Accordingly the light intensity of the linear component or the reflected component is increased or decreased relatively compared to the case of . Stated otherwise the light intensity transmitted through the interior of the transparent substrate without being subjected to scattering increases uniformly irrespective of the position of the thin metal wires that are constituted from a non translucent material. Below for facilitating explanation it will be assumed that the detected light intensity is increased by a value positive value .

At this time as shown in and a light intensity I Iw at a position corresponding to the openings and a light intensity I Ib at the position corresponding to the thin metal wires are transmitted respectively and detected. The optical density due to the thin metal wires is represented by D2 log Ib Iw on the basis of the detected light intensity at the openings .

Since the inequality Ib Iw Ib 0 and 0 the relationship D1 D2 normally holds true. More specifically by maintaining the relative index of refraction nr1 between the transparent substrate and the first protective layer close to the value 1 contrast in optical density due to the thin metal wires can be reduced. As a result in a case where the display device is viewed in plan it is difficult for the user to visually perceive the pattern of the thin metal wires .

The same advantages can be realized not only in relation to the transparent substrate and the first protective layer shown in but also in relation to the transparent substrate and the second protective layer refer to . The same also holds true in relation to the first transparent substrate and the first protective layer in or in relation to the second transparent substrate and the second protective layer

The relative indices of refraction nr1 nr2 preferably are in the range of 0.85 1.17 more preferably are in the range of 0.86 1.15 and still more preferably are in the range of 0.91 1.08. In particular if at least one of the first protective layer and the second protective layer are made from the same material as the transparent substrate the equation nr1 1 nr2 1 is satisfied which is even more preferable.

In the foregoing manner at least one of the relative index of refraction nr1 of the transparent substrate or the first transparent substrate with respect to the first protective layer and the relative index of refraction nr2 of the transparent substrate or the second transparent substrate with respect to the second protective layer is in the range of 0.86 1.15. Therefore among the light oblique light which is inclined slightly with respect to a direction normal to the transparent substrate the direction of the arrow Z1 the light intensity linear component at at least one of the interface between the transparent substrate and the first protective layer and the interface between the transparent substrate and the second protective layer is increased relatively. More specifically the amount of light that passes through the interior of the transparent substrate without scattering increases uniformly irrespective of the position of the thin metal wires that are constituted from a non translucent material. Consequently contrast in optical density caused by the thin metal wires can be decreased thus making such contrast less visible to an observer user . In particular with a mesh pattern in which different mesh shapes are arranged without gaps since generation of noise graininess can be suppressed even further advantages are achieved. Moreover not only in cases where the respective mesh shapes are polygonal with various other shapes as well it goes without saying that the aforementioned effects and advantages can be obtained.

Next with reference to an explanation shall be given concerning advantages and effects obtained by providing the first dummy patterns on the conductive sheet . To facilitate understanding the structure of the first protective layer is omitted and optical phenomena will be described in which the influence of effects due to refraction of light is slight.

The position P1 corresponds to a position at which the thin metal wires do not reside in the first conductive portion or the second conductive portion . External light which is irradiated from the exterior of the display device see enters into the interior of the conductive sheet and travels straight in substantially parallel to the direction of the arrow Z2. In addition at a first interface between the openings and the transparent substrate the external light is transmitted substantially entirely in the direction of the arrow Z2. At this time a portion of the transmitted light travels in a straight line as a linear component in the direction of the arrow Z2 whereas the remaining portion thereof is scattered as a scattered component . Thereafter the linear component is transmitted substantially entirely in the direction of the arrow Z2 at a third interface between the transparent substrate and the openings . A portion of the transmitted light travels in a straight line as a linear component in the direction of the arrow Z2 whereas the remaining portion thereof is scattered as a scattered component . As a result the majority of the external light irradiated toward the position P1 is emitted in the direction of the arrow Z2 of the conductive sheet .

The position P2 corresponds to a position at which the thin metal wires reside in the first conductive portion first conductive patterns and at which the thin metal wires do not reside in the second conductive portion . External light which is irradiated from the exterior of the display device see is reflected substantially completely as a reflected component in the direction of the arrow Z1 at the surface of the first conductive portion non translucent material thin metal wires .

The position P3 corresponds to a position at which the thin metal wires do not reside in the first conductive portion first conductive patterns and at which the thin metal wires reside in the second conductive portion second conductive patterns . External light which is irradiated from the exterior of the display device see enters into the interior of the conductive sheet and travels in the straight line substantially in parallel in the direction of the arrow Z2. In addition at the first interface the external light is transmitted substantially entirely in the direction of the arrow Z2. At this time a portion of the transmitted light travels in a straight line as a linear component in the direction of the arrow Z2 whereas the remaining portion thereof is scattered as a scattered component . In addition at the third interface a surface of the non translucent material thin metal wires the linear component is reflected substantially entirely as a reflected component in the direction of the arrow Z1. Thereafter the reflected component travels in a straight line through the interior of the transparent substrate in the direction of the arrow Z1 and is transmitted substantially entirely in the direction of the arrow Z1 at the first interface . As a result a portion of the external light irradiated toward the position P3 is emitted to the outside of the conductive sheet in the direction of the arrow Z1 as a linear component or as a scattered component .

In this manner it is understood that the reflected light intensity Ir reflected component at the position P2 is greater in comparison with the reflected light intensity Ir linear component at the position P3. This is caused by the difference corresponding to two times the value of the width of the transparent substrate in the light path length until reaching the position of the thin metal wires .

As a result at a position in which the first conductive patterns do not reside in the first sensor part the reflected light intensity Ir exhibits a minimum value Ir I1 . Further at a position in which the first conductive patterns reside in the first sensor part the reflected light intensity Ir exhibits a maximum value Ir I2 . More specifically the reflected light intensity Ir has a characteristic responsive to the regular arrangement of the first sensing units or stated otherwise a periodic characteristic in which the minimum value I1 and the maximum value I2 are repeated alternately.

In contrast thereto in the case of a conductive sheet in which a highly translucent conductive material typically ITO is used the reflected light intensity Ir is substantially equivalent to zero I1 I2 0 . Thus almost no contrast difference in brightness occurs due to the presence or absence of the first conductive patterns . More specifically compared to a case in which the thin metal wires are applied to the first conductive patterns the above described effect virtually is not imparted.

In relation to a position Q1 that corresponds to the position P1 explanations are omitted since they are the same as those made above with respect to . The same holds true for the position Q2 that corresponds to the position P2.

At position Q3 which corresponds to position P3 external light which is irradiated from the exterior of the display device see is reflected substantially completely as a reflected component in the direction of the arrow Z1 at the surface of the first dummy patterns non translucent material thin metal wires . More specifically the conductive sheet reflects external light to the same degree as at the position Q2 irrespective of the presence or absence of the thin metal wires of the second conductive portion

As a result as shown in the reflected light intensity Ir exhibits a uniform characteristic where Ir I2 irrespective of the regular arrangement of the first sensing units . In spaces between the first conductive patterns and the first dummy patterns the reflected light intensity Ir has a tendency to decrease slightly . By keeping the width of the spacing small it becomes more difficult for the shape of the first sensing units to be recognized visually.

In the foregoing manner the wiring density of the first dummy patterns which are arranged in the first interspatial portions between adjacent first conductive patterns is equivalent to the wiring density of the first conductive patterns themselves. Therefore the optical reflectance within the planar regions of the first dummy patterns with respect to external light from the side of the one main surface matches or coincides substantially with the optical reflectance of the planar regions of the first conductive patterns . More specifically regardless of the regular arrangement of the first sensing units the intensity distribution of the reflected light reflected component can be made more uniform. Consequently even in a structure in which electrodes made up of thin metal wires are formed on both surfaces of the transparent substrate visual recognition of the first sensing units or the second sensing units due to external light as a source of reflected light can be suppressed.

Next with reference to an explanation shall be given concerning mathematical characteristics of the wiring shape shape of the mesh pattern of the conductive sheet according to the first and second embodiments hereinafter referred to collectively as present embodiments .

First examples of methods for determining wiring shapes for the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion will be described with reference to .

In the present embodiment the mesh pattern is determined from a plurality of positions existing within one planar region . As shown in eight seed points Pto Pare selected at random from within a square shaped planar region .

In the foregoing manner the thin metal wires are placed at the respective boundary lines shown in or C and respective mesh shapes are determined for a case in which the wiring shapes of the regions Vi that define the openings i.e. the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion are overlapped. In addition the mesh pattern satisfies at least one of the following conditions from among a first condition a second condition and a third condition to be described below.

The first mathematical characteristic relates to the centroid position power spectrum of the mesh shapes . Below a description thereof shall be made in detail with reference to .

First a Fourier transformation i.e. FFT Fast Fourier Transformation is implemented with respect to the image data Img shown in . As a result concerning the shape of the mesh pattern and overall tendency spatial frequency distribution can be grasped rather than a partial shape thereof.

In the present embodiment as a standard human visual response characteristic a Dooley Shaw function is used at an observation distance of 300 mm under a condition of clear viewing. A Dooley Shaw function is one type of VTF Visual Transfer Function which is a representative function that simulates standard human visual response characteristics. More specifically the function corresponds to the square of a luminance contrast ratio characteristic. The horizontal axis on the graph is the spatial frequency units cycle mm whereas the vertical axis is the value of the VTF units dimensionless .

If the observational distance is set at 300 mm values of the VTF are constant equivalent to 1 within a range of 0 to 1.0 cycle mm and as the spatial frequency becomes higher there is a tendency for the VTF values to decrease. More specifically the function operates as a low pass filter that blocks or cuts off mid to high spatial frequency bands.

Actual standard human visual response characteristics exhibit the characteristics of a so called band pass filter in which the value thereof becomes smaller than 1 in the vicinity of 0 cycle mm. However as exemplified in in the present embodiment by setting the VTF value to 1 even in extremely low spatial frequency bands the contribution to a later described evaluation value EVP is high. Consequently an effect is obtained of suppressing periodicity due to repeated arrangement of the mesh pattern .

The spectrum Spc of the pattern PT1 shown in has a broad width peak a range of 2 to 30 cycle mm with an apex at approximately 10 cycle mm. Further the spectrum Spc of the pattern PT2 shown in has a broad width peak a range of 3 to 20 cycle mm centered at approximately 3 cycle mm. Furthermore the spectrum Spc of the pattern PT3 shown in has a comparatively narrow width peak a range of 8 to 18 cycle mm centered at approximately 10 cycle mm. In contrast thereto the spectrum Spc of the mesh pattern indicated by M in the present drawing as well as in to be discussed later has a narrow width peak centered at 8.8 cycle mm.

An explanation shall be given next concerning a relationship between characteristics of the spectrum Spc shown in and centroid positions of the respective mesh shapes . As shown in with respect to a planar region similar to that shown in using the aforementioned Voronoi diagram respective polygonal shaped regions Vto Vare defined. Points Cto Cbelonging respectively to the regions Vto Vrepresent centroid positions of such regions respectively.

The power spectrum of a centroid position distribution C in conductive sheet can be obtained by the following process. First image data Img representing the pattern of the mesh pattern are acquired respective mesh shapes closed spaces are identified centroid positions e.g. one pixel dot thereof are calculated respectively and centroid image data Imgc are determined and a two dimensional power spectrum thereof is calculated. Accordingly a power spectrum centroid spectrum Spcc of the centroid position distribution C is obtained.

According to the present drawing peaks Pk of the spatial frequencies Fp are in agreement corresponding to a value of 8.8 cycle mm. In high spatial frequency bands in excess of the spatial frequency Fp the intensity of the spectrum Spc gradually decreases whereas in contrast thereto the intensity of the centroid spectrum Spcc is maintained at an even higher value. The reason therefor is presumed to be that in contrast to the constituent elements of the mesh pattern being line segments having a predetermined width and which intersect each other the constituent elements of the centroid distribution C are points.

A standard spatial frequency predetermined spatial frequency Fb is set to 6 cycle mm. Within a range on the side of a spatial frequency band lower than Fb i.e. within a range from 0 to Fb cycle mm the average intensity average value of the centroid spectrum Spcc is set to P. On the other hand within a range on the side of a spatial frequency band higher than Fb i.e. within a range from Fb cycle mm to the Nyquist frequency the average intensity average value of the centroid spectrum Spcc is set to P. In this manner the value of Pis greater than the value of P. Since the centroid spectrum Spcc has such a characteristic the sensation of noise that is felt visually by an observer is reduced. The basis therefor is as follows.

For example the value of Fb is set such that a spatial frequency results in which the human visual response characteristic corresponds to 5 of the maximum response. This is because such a level is difficult to visually confirm. Further as shown in an acquired visual response characteristic is used based on a Dooley Shaw function at a visibility distance of 300 mm. The present function is closely compatible with human visual response characteristics.

More specifically as the value Fb there can be used a spatial frequency of 6 cycle mm which corresponds to 5 of the maximum response in the Dooley Shaw function at a visibility distance of 300 mm. It is further noted that 6 cycle mm corresponds to an interval of 167 m.

Further as shown in a spatial frequency Fp that maximizes the value of the centroid spectrum Spcc may be set as the reference spatial frequency Fb. In this case as well the aforementioned relationship P P is met.

The second mathematical characteristic relates to the power spectrum of the mesh shapes . Below a description thereof shall be made in detail with reference to and .

A noise intensity NP Ux Uy which is a value that correlates highly with human visual response characteristics is defined by the following formula 1 using the value F Ux Uy of the spectrum Spc. VTF square root over 1 

Stated otherwise the noise intensity NP Ux Uy corresponds to a convolution integral function of Ux Uy between the spectrum Spc and the standard human visual response characteristic VTF . For example in relation to spatial frequency bands in excess of the Nyquist frequency Unyq normally the convolution integral is calculated as F Ux Uy 0. In the present case the Nyquist frequency Unyq coincides with a spatial frequency corresponding to the average wire width of the thin metal wires .

As viewed from the standpoint of spatial symmetry of the image data Img the VTF exhibits spatial frequency symmetry VTF U VTF U . However it is noted that in the present embodiment spatial frequency characteristics in the negative direction are not taken into account. More specifically it is assumed that VTF U 0 where U is a positive value . The same is also true concerning the spectrum Spc.

As shown in the present drawing the noise intensity NP Ux 0 has a peak in the vicinity of Ux 0.25 Unyq and exhibits a characteristic in which the noise intensity NP Ux 0 decreases monotonically as the spatial frequency becomes higher. In the case that the spatial frequency range is 0.25 Unyq Ux 0.5 Unyq the relationship NP Ux Uy NP 0 0 normally is satisfied. Further in relation to the noise intensity NP Ux Uy without being limited to the Ux axis the same relationship is obtained in the radial direction of Spatial Frequency U Ux Uy .

In the foregoing manner in a convolution integral between the spectrum Spc as viewed in plan and a standard human visual response characteristic VTF respective integral values Noise Intensity NP Ux Uy within a spatial frequency band greater than or equal to of and less than or equal to of the Nyquist frequency i.e. the spatial frequency corresponding to the average wire width of the thin metal wires are greater than the integral value Noise Intensity NP 0 0 . Therefore compared to the low spatial frequency band side the noise amount on the side of the high spatial frequency band is relatively large. Although human visual perception has a high response characteristic in a low spatial frequency band in mid to high spatial frequency bands properties of the response characteristic decrease rapidly and thus the sensation of noise as perceived visually by humans tends to decrease. In accordance with this phenomenon the sensation of granular noise caused by the pattern of the conductive sheet is lowered and the visibility of objects to be observed can be significantly enhanced. Further since plural polygonal meshes are provided the cross sectional shape of the respective wires after cutting is substantially constant and thus the conductive sheet exhibits a stable conducting capability.

The third mathematical characteristic relates to the distribution of the number of vertices in the polygonal mesh shapes . Below a description thereof shall be made in detail with reference to .

In a first sample the number of vertices Nv was within a range of 4 to 7 and the occurrence thereof was highest in order of pentagons hexagons septagons and tetragons. Further in a second sample the number of vertices Nv was within a range of 4 to 8 and the proportion thereof was highest in order of hexagons pentagons septagons tetragons and octagons.

As characteristics common to the first and second samples there may be cited 1 the percentage of polygons having the highest frequently number of vertices is 40 50 2 the sum of the percentage of polygons having the highest frequently number of vertices and the percentage of polygons having a second highest frequently number of vertices is 70 85 and 3 the histogram is of a mountain shape having a single peak.

Furthermore by the result of the creation of the above described histogram in relation to mesh patterns of multiple types in which noise graininess and the occurrence of moir phenomena can be sufficiently tolerated the following knowledge was obtained that is it is only necessary to meet at least one of a condition that the percentage of polygons having a highest frequently number of vertices is 40 70 and a condition that the sum of the percentage of polygons having the highest frequently number of vertices and the percentage of polygons having a second highest frequently number of vertices is 70 90 .

The manufacturing apparatus basically comprises an image generating device for creating image data Img including output image data ImgOut representative of the pattern wiring shapes of the mesh pattern a first light source for performing exposure by illuminating with first light the one main surface of the conductive sheet photosensitive material see under a manufacturing process in order to generate the pattern represented by the output image data ImgOut created by the image generating device a second light source for performing exposure by illuminating the other main surface of the photosensitive material with second light based on the output image data ImgOut an input device for inputting to the image generating device each of various conditions including visual information of the mesh pattern and a later described structural pattern for creating the image data Img and a display device for displaying a GUI image to assist in an input operation by the input device and for displaying stored output image data ImgOut or the like.

The image generating device comprises a storage unit storing therein image data Img output image data ImgOut position data SPd of candidate points SP and position data SDd of seed points SD a random number generator for producing a pseudo random number and generating a random number value an initial position selecting unit for selecting initial positions of seed points SD from among a predetermined two dimensional image using the random number value generated by the random number generator an updated candidate position determining unit for determining positions excluding positions of the seed points SD of candidate points SP from among the two dimensional image region using the random number value an image cutout unit for cutting out first image data and second image data described later from the output image data ImgOut and a display controller for controlling display of respective images on the display device .

The seed points SD are made up from first seed points SDN that are not to be updated and second seed points SDS that are to be updated. Stated otherwise the position data SDd of the seed points SD are constituted from position data SDNd of the first seed points SDN and position data SDSd of the second seed points SDS.

A non illustrated controller which is constituted by a CPU or the like is capable of implementing various controls in relation to image processing by reading and executing a program stored in a computer readable recording medium a non illustrated ROM or the storage unit .

The image generating device further comprises an image information estimating unit for estimating image information of a mesh pattern or a structural pattern based on visual information details of which are described later input from the input device an image data generating unit for generating image data Img representative of a pattern corresponding to the mesh pattern or the structural pattern based on image information supplied from the image information estimating unit and positions of seed points SD supplied from the storage unit a mesh pattern evaluating unit that calculates an evaluation value EVP for evaluating a pattern of the mesh shapes based on the image data Img created by the image data generating unit and a data update instructing unit for instructing updating non updating of data of seed points SD evaluation values EVP etc. based on the evaluation value EVP calculated by the mesh pattern evaluating unit .

The mesh pattern evaluating unit comprises an FFT operating unit which carries out Fourier transformation e.g. fast Fourier transformation hereinafter also referred to as FFT on the image data supplied from the image data generating unit to obtain two dimensional spectral data hereinafter referred to as a spectrum Spc and an evaluation value calculating unit for calculating an evaluation value EVP based on the spectra Spc supplied from the FFT operating unit .

The data update instructing unit comprises a counter for counting the number of evaluations performed by the mesh pattern evaluating unit a simulated temperature management unit for managing values of simulated temperatures T utilized by a later described simulated annealing method an update probability calculation unit for calculating an update probability of the seed points SD based on the evaluation value EVP supplied from the mesh pattern evaluating unit and a simulated temperature T supplied from the simulated temperature management unit a position update determining unit for determining whether to update or not update position data SDd of seed points SD based on the update probability supplied from the update probability calculation unit and an output image data determining unit data determining unit for determining as output image data ImgOut one of the image data Img corresponding to a notification from the simulated temperature management unit .

Operations of the manufacturing apparatus constructed basically as described above in particular the image generating device will be explained below with reference to the flowchart of .

First various conditions necessary for creating the image data Img representing the pattern corresponding to the mesh pattern including the output image data ImgOut are input step S .

The setting screen comprises from the top thereof and in the following order a left side pull down menu a left side display column a right side pull down menu a right side display column seven text boxes and buttons labeled CANCEL and NEXT respectively.

To the left of the pull down menus and text is displayed indicating TYPE . By operating the input device e.g. a mouse non illustrated selection columns are displayed below the pull down menus to enable the items displayed therein to be selected.

The display column is made up from five respective columns with text labels TRANSMITTANCE REFLECTANCE COLOR VALUE L COLOR VALUE a and COLOR VALUE b displayed respectively to the left thereof.

Similar to the display column the display column is made up from five respective columns with text labels REFLECTANCE TRANSMITTANCE COLOR VALUE L COLOR VALUE a and COLOR VALUE b displayed respectively to the left thereof.

The label TOTAL TRANSMITTANCE is displayed to the left of the text box and is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label FILM THICKNESS is displayed to the left of the text box and m is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label WIRING WIDTH is displayed to the left of the text box and m is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label WIRING THICKNESS is displayed to the left of the text box and m is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label PATTERN SIZE H is displayed to the left of the text box and mm is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label PATTERN SIZE V is displayed to the left of the text box and mm is displayed on the right hand side thereof. The label IMAGE RESOLUTION is displayed to the left of the text box and dpi is displayed on the right hand side thereof.

Further by performing a predetermined operation using the input device e.g. a keyboard Arabic numerals can be input into any of the seven text boxes .

The operator inputs appropriate numerical values etc. via the setting screen shown on the display device . As a result visual information can be input concerning visibility of the mesh pattern . Visual information of the mesh pattern is defined by various information that contribute to the shape and optical density of the mesh pattern including visual information of the wire material thin metal wires and visual information of a film material transparent substrate . As visual information of the wire material there may be included for example at least one of the type of wire material color value optical transmittance and optical reflectance of the wire material and the cross sectional shape and thickness of the thin metal wires . As visual information of the film material there may be included for example at least one of the type color value optical transmittance optical reflectance of the film material and film thickness of the transparent substrate .

In relation to the conductive sheet to be manufactured the operator selects one of the types of wire materials thin metal wires using the pull down menu . In the example of SILVER Ag is selected. Upon selecting one type of wire material the display column is updated immediately and predetermined numerical values are newly displayed corresponding to physical properties of the wire material. Values for optical reflectivity units optical reflectance unit color value L color value a color value b CIELAB of silver having a thickness of 100 m are displayed respectively in the columns through

Further in relation to the conductive sheet to be manufactured the operator selects one of the types of film materials transparent substrate using the pull down menu . In the example of PET FILM is selected. Upon selecting one type of film material the display column is updated immediately and predetermined numerical values are newly displayed corresponding to physical properties of the film material. Values for optical reflectivity units optical reflectance unit color value L color value a color value b CIELAB of a 1 mm thickness PET film are displayed respectively in the columns through

By selecting the item MANUAL INPUT not shown via the pull down menus various physical property values can be input directly from the display columns .

Furthermore in relation to the conductive sheet to be manufactured the operator enters various conditions of the mesh pattern respectively using the text box etc.

The values input to the text boxes correspond respectively to total optical transmittance units film thickness of the transparent substrate units m line width of the thin metal wires units m and thickness of the thin metal wires units m .

The values input to the text boxes correspond respectively to the horizontal size of the mesh pattern the vertical size of the mesh pattern and the image resolution pixel size of the output image data ImgOut.

After having finished the input operations on the setting screen the operator clicks the NEXT button . At this time the display controller changes the setting screen to the setting screen and the setting screen is displayed on the display device .

The setting screen has from the top thereof and in the following order two radio buttons six text boxes a matrix shaped image and buttons labeled respectively with RETURN SET and CANCEL .

The words PRESENCE and ABSENCE are displayed respectively to the right of the radio buttons and . In addition to the left of the radio button the text label PRESENCE ABSENCE OF MATRIX is displayed.

To the left of the text boxes the text labels AVERAGE SAMPLE NUMBER OF SUPERIMPOSED POSITIONS DENSITY DIMENSIONS a b c and d are displayed respectively. Further to the right of the text boxes the text labels TIMES D and m are displayed respectively. By performing a predetermined operation using the input device e.g. a keyboard Arabic numerals can be entered in any of the text boxes .

The matrix shaped image is an image that simulates the form of the black matrix see and is provided with four openings and a window frame .

The operator inputs appropriate numerical values via the setting screen displayed on the display device . As a result visual information in relation to visibility of the black matrix can be input. Visual information of the black matrix is defined by various types of information that contribute to the shape and optical density of the black matrix and includes visual information of the pattern material. As visual information of the pattern material for example there may be included at least one of a type a color an optical transmittance or an optical reflectance of the pattern material or at least one of an arrangement position a unit shape or a unit size of the structural pattern may be included in the visual information of the pattern material.

In relation to the black matrix that is to be superimposed the operator inputs various conditions of the black matrix using the text box .

The inputs made via the radio buttons correspond to whether or not output image data ImgOut is created representing a pattern in which the black matrix is superimposed on the mesh pattern . If the radio button PRESENCE is selected the black matrix is superimposed and if the radio button ABSENCE is selected the black matrix is not superimposed.

The value input to the text box randomly determines the arrangement position of the black matrix and corresponds to the number of trials carried out to generate and evaluate the image data Img. For example in the event the value is set to 5 times five instances of image data Img are created in which positional relationships are determined randomly between the mesh pattern and the black matrix and using respective average values of the evaluation value EVP evaluation of the pattern of the mesh is carried out.

The input values of the text boxes correspond respectively to the optical density of the black matrix units D the vertical size of the pixels units m the horizontal size of the pixels units m the width of horizontal lattice lines of the black matrix units m and the width of vertical lattice lines of the black matrix units m .

Responsive to the operator clicking on the SET button the image information estimating unit estimates the image information corresponding to the mesh pattern . The image information is referred to at the time that the image data Img including the output image data ImgOut is created.

For example based on the vertical size of the mesh pattern the value input to the text box and the image resolution of the output image data ImgOut the value input to the text box the number of pixels in the horizontal direction of the output image data ImgOut can be calculated and based on the width of the wiring the value input to the text box and the image resolution the number of pixels corresponding to the line width of the thin metal wires can be calculated.

Further based on the optical transmittance of the wire material the value displayed in column and the thickness of the wires the value input to the text box the optical transmittance of the thin metal wires themselves can be estimated. In addition thereto based on the optical transmittance of the film material the value displayed in the column and the film thickness the value input to the text box the optical transmittance under a condition in which the thin metal wires are laminated on the transparent substrate can be estimated.

Furthermore based on the optical transmittance of the wire material the value displayed in the column the optical transmittance of the film material the value displayed in the column the total transmittance the value input to the text box and the width of the wires the value input to the text box the number of openings can be estimated together with estimating the number of seed points SD. The number of seed points SD may also be estimated responsive to an algorithm which determines regions of the openings .

Furthermore based on the optical density of the black matrix text box the vertical size of the pixels text box the horizontal size of the pixels text box the width of the horizontal matrix lines of the black matrix text box and the width of the vertical matrix lines of the black matrix text box the pattern of the mesh pattern i.e. the shape and optical density in the case that the black matrix is superimposed can be estimated.

Next output image data ImgOut is generated for forming the mesh pattern step S . The output image data ImgOut is determined and created based on an evaluation value EVP exemplified as shown below.

A first evaluation value EVP is calculated with the following formula 2 in the case that values of the spectrum Spc are quantified by NP Ux Uy . 2 

According to the Wiener Khintchine theorem a value obtained by integrating the spectrum Spc over the total spatial frequency band matches the square of the RMS. A value obtained by multiplying the VTF with respect to the spectrum Spc and then integrating the new spectrum Spc over the total spatial frequency band yields an evaluation index that substantially coincides with human visual characteristics. The evaluation value EVP can be provided by the RMS corrected by the human visual response characteristics. Similar to an ordinary RMS the evaluation value EVP typically is taken to be a value that is greater than or equal to zero and the closer the evaluation value EVP is to zero the better the noise characteristics are.

Further by effecting an inverse Fourier transform e.g. IFFT with respect to the VTF shown in a mask corresponding to the VTF is calculated in real space and by applying the mask with respect to image data Img to be evaluated and performing a convolution operation thereon the RMS may be determined with respect to the new image data Img. Consequently a computational result can be obtained which is equivalent to that obtained by the above described method using formula 2 .

A second evaluation value EVP is calculated with the following formula 3 using the noise intensity NP Ux Uy .

Aj where j 1 to 3 is an arbitrary coefficient non negative real number determined beforehand. Further x is a step function in which x 1 in the case that x 0 and x 0 in the case that x 0. Furthermore Unyq represents the Nyquist frequency of the image data Img. For example in the event that resolution of the image data Img is 1750 dpi dots per inch the Nyquist frequency corresponds to Unyq 34.4 cycle mm. Moreover the variable is an angular parameter 0 2 on the Ux Uy plane.

As understood from formula 3 in the case that respective noise intensities NP Ux Uy in a spatial frequency band higher than of the Nyquist frequency Unyq are greater than the noise intensity NP 0 0 at zero spatial frequency the right side value becomes zero. The evaluation value EVP becomes minimal in the event that this condition predetermined spatial frequency condition is satisfied. As the evaluation value EVP goes lower the spectrum Spc exhibited by the pattern of the mesh pattern is suppressed by the low spatial frequency band. More specifically the granular noise characteristic exhibited by the mesh pattern approaches a so called blue noise region in which the noise intensity NP Ux Uy is eccentrically located on the side of the high spatial frequency band. Owing thereto a mesh pattern can be obtained in which graininess is not noticeable to human visual perception under conditions of normal observation.

It goes without saying the formula for computing the evaluation value EVP may be modified in various ways responsive to the evaluation function and the target level acceptable range or tolerance for determining the mesh pattern .

Below a detailed method for determining output image data ImgOut based on the above described evaluation value EVP shall be explained. For example a method can be used in which generation of dot patterns made up from multiple seed points SD generation of image data Img based on the multiple seed points SD and evaluation thereof by the evaluation value EVP are repeated successively.

An algorithm for determining positions of multiple seed points can adopt various optimization techniques. For example a method can be used in which creation of dot patterns having different arrangements and evaluation thereof by the evaluation value EVP are repeated successively. In this case as an optimization problem for determining the dot pattern various search algorithms can be used such as a constructive algorithm or an iterative improvement algorithm etc. As detailed examples a neural network a genetic algorithm a simulated annealing method and a void and cluster method may be cited.

Primarily with reference to the flowchart of and the functional block diagrams of and explanations shall be given concerning an optimization method for optimizing the form of the mesh pattern by means of a simulated annealing method hereinafter referred to as an SA method according to the present embodiment. The SA method is a stochastic search algorithm modeled on an annealing method for obtaining robust iron by striking iron in a high temperature condition.

Prior to selecting the initial positions the random number generator generates a random number value using a pseudo random number generating algorithm. As one such pseudo random number generating algorithm any of various algorithms may be used such as a Mersenne Twister an SIMD Oriented Fast Mersenne Twister SFMT or an Xorshift method. Then using the random number value supplied from the random number generator the initial position selecting unit determines initial positions of the seed points SD in a random fashion. Herein the initial position selecting unit selects initial positions of the seed points SD as pixel addresses in the image data Img and the seed points SD are set at respective positions that do not overlap one another.

Based on the number of pixels in vertical and horizontal directions of the image data Img supplied from the image information estimating unit the initial position selecting unit determines beforehand the range of the two dimensional image region. Further the initial position selecting unit acquires beforehand from the image information estimating unit the number of seed points SD and based thereon the number of seed points SD is determined.

The graph characteristics exhibit changes responsive to the optical transmittance of the film material as indicated in column of the wiring width the value input to the text box of and a region determining algorithm e.g. a Voronoi diagram . Thus characteristic data responsive to each of the parameters such as wiring width or the like may be stored beforehand in the storage unit in any of various data formats consisting of functions tables or the like.

Further a correspondence between the arrangement density of the seed points SD and an electrical resistance value of the mesh pattern may be acquired beforehand whereby the number of seed points SD may be determined based on a specified electrical resistance value. The electrical resistance value is one parameter indicative of electrical conductivity of the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion which is essential to the design of the mesh pattern .

The initial position selecting unit may also select the initial positions of the seed points SD without using a random number value. For example the initial positions can be determined by referring to data acquired from an external apparatus including a non illustrated scanner or storage device. Such data for example may be predetermined binary data and more specifically may be halftone data used for printing.

Next the image data generating unit generates image data ImgInit that serves as initial data step S . The image data generating unit generates image data ImgInit initial data representing the pattern corresponding to the mesh pattern based on the number of seed points SD and the position data SDd supplied from the storage unit along with image information supplied from the image information estimating unit . In this case an algorithm for determining respective mesh shapes from the plural seed points SD can adopt various methods. In the present embodiment a method using a Voronoi diagram see is adopted.

Incidentally prior to generating the image data Img including the initial image data ImgInit definitions for pixel addresses and pixel values are determined in advance.

In this manner the image data generating unit creates the image data ImgInit corresponding to the mesh pattern based on the data definition of the image data Img and the image information estimated by the image information estimating unit refer to the description of step S step S . Using a Voronoi diagram as a reference for the initial positions of the seed points SD see the image data generating unit determines initial conditions for the mesh pattern shown in . The image data Img including the image data ImgInit is handled as respective 4 channel image data made up of optical density OD color value L color value a and color value b .

Incidentally in the case that the size of the image data Img is extremely large the processing load required to perform optimization becomes enormous and therefore a large amount of processing time and processing power for the image generating device is required. Further since the size of image data Img output image data ImgOut is increased a sufficient memory capacity to store such data also is required. Therefore it is effective to use a method of regularly arranging unit image data ImgE that satisfies predetermined boundary conditions and to construct the image data Img in a repeated pattern. Below a specific method will be described in detail with reference to and .

As shown in in the unit area comprising a substantially square shape points Pto Pare disposed respectively in the upper right corner the upper left corner the lower left corner and the lower right corner. For facilitating description only the four points Pto Pare shown as residing within the unit area and other points are omitted.

To the right of the unit area a virtual area shown in dashed lines is arranged adjacent thereto having the same size as the unit area . In the virtual area a virtual point Pis arranged in a corresponding manner to the point Pin the unit area . Further to the upper right of the unit area a virtual area shown in dashed lines is arranged adjacent thereto having the same size as the unit area . In the virtual area a virtual point Pis arranged in a corresponding manner to the point Pin the unit area . Further upwardly of the unit area a virtual area shown in dashed lines is arranged adjacent thereto having the same size as the unit area . In the virtual area a virtual point Pis arranged in a corresponding manner to the point Pin the unit area .

Under these conditions as will be described below the image data generating unit determines the pattern wiring pattern in the upper right corner of the unit area in accordance with a Voronoi diagram segmentation method .

In the relationship between point Pand the virtual point P a single partition line is determined the line being defined by a group of points that are equidistant from both the points. Further in the relationship between the point Pand the virtual point P a single partition line is determined the line being defined by a group of points that are equidistant from both the points. Furthermore in the relationship between the point Pand the virtual point P a single partition line is determined the line being defined by a group of points that are equidistant from both the points. In accordance with the partition lines to the pattern in the upper right corner of the unit area is defined. In a similar manner the patterns are defined across all ends of the unit area . The image data inside the unit area which is created in the foregoing manner is referred to below as unit image data ImgE.

As shown in by arranging the unit image data ImgE regularly in the same direction as well as vertically and horizontally the image data Img is generated in the planar region . Since the pattern is determined in accordance with the boundary conditions shown in it is possible for the respective unit image data ImgE portions to be connected together seamlessly between upper and lower ends and between left and right ends of the unit image data ImgE.

By such a configuration it is possible to minimize the size of the unit image data ImgE and thus it is possible to reduce the data size and the amount of arithmetic processing. Further generation of moir phenomena due to mismatching of seams does not occur. The unit area is not limited to a square shape as shown in and but may be any type of shape that can be arranged regularly without gaps such as rectangular triangular hexagonal shapes etc.

Next in step S the image data generating unit generates image data ImgInit based on the image data ImgInit generated in step S and image information estimated by the image information estimating unit refer to the explanation of step S . The image data ImgInit is image data representative of a pattern in which a black matrix as a structural pattern is superimposed on the mesh pattern . In the case that the black matrix is not superimposed by selecting the radio button see the image data ImgInit without modification is copied to the image data ImgInit and the routine proceeds to the following step S.

In the case that the black matrix is superimposed by selecting the radio button see the image data generating unit generates superimposed image data i.e. the image data ImgInit using the image data ImgInit and the image information estimated by the image information estimating unit . The superimposed image data is image data representative of a pattern in which the black matrix as a structural pattern is superimposed on the mesh pattern .

In the case that the data definitions for pixel values of the image data ImgInit are indicative of transmission density the transmission density the value input to the text box in of each of the pixels is added corresponding to the arrangement position of the black matrix and the image data ImgInit can be generated. Further in the case that the data definitions for pixel values of the image data ImgInit are indicative of reflection density the reflection density the value input to the same text box of each of the pixels is substituted therefor corresponding to the arrangement position of the black matrix and the image data ImgInit can be generated.

Next the mesh pattern evaluating unit calculates the evaluation value EVPInit step S . In the SA method the evaluation value EVP assumes the role of a cost function.

More specifically the FFT operating unit shown in effects FFT with respect to the image data ImgInit . In addition the evaluation value calculating unit calculates the evaluation value EVP based on the spectrum Spc supplied from the FFT operating unit .

From within the image data Img the aforementioned evaluation values EVP L EVP a EVP b are calculated respectively for each of the respective channels for the color value L the color value a and the color value b refer to formula 2 or formula 3 above . In addition the evaluation value EVP is obtained by a product sum operation using a predetermined weighting coefficient.

In place of the color values L a b optical density OD may also be used. In relation to the evaluation value EVP depending on the type of observational mode i.e. corresponding to whether the auxiliary light source is predominantly transmissive light predominantly reflective light or a mixture of transmissive and reflective light an appropriate calculation method can be selected that complies with human visual sensitivity.

Further it goes without saying that the formula for computing the evaluation value EVP may be changed corresponding to the target level acceptable range or tolerance or the evaluation function for determining the mesh pattern .

Next the storage unit temporarily stores the image data ImgInit created in step S and the evaluation value EVPInit calculated in step S step S . Along therewith an initial value n T where n is a natural number and T is a positive real number is assigned to the simulated temperature T.

Next the counter initializes the variable K step S . That is the counter assigns 0 to the variable K.

Then in a state in which a portion of the seed points SD second seed points SDS are replaced by candidate points SP and after image data ImgTemp is created and the evaluation value EVPTemp is calculated a determination is made as to whether to update or not update the seed points SD step S . Further details concerning step S will be described with reference to the flowchart of and the functional block diagrams of and .

First the updated candidate position determining unit extracts and determines candidate points SP from the predetermined planar region step S . The updated candidate position determining unit for example using a random value supplied from the random number generator determines non overlapping positions in relation to any of the positions of the seed points SD. The candidate points SP may be a single point or a plurality of points. In the example shown in two candidate points SP point Qand point Q are determined with respect to the eight current seed points SD points Pto P .

Next a portion of the seed points SD and the candidate points SP are exchanged at random step S . The updated candidate position determining unit establishes a correspondence randomly between each of the candidate points SP and each of the exchanged or updated seed points SD. In a correspondence is established between point Pand point Q and also between point Pand point Q. As shown in the point Pand the point Qare exchanged and the point Pand the point Qare exchanged. In this case points Pand points Pto P which are not subject to exchange or updating are referred to as first seed points SDN whereas point Pand point P which are subject to exchange or updating are referred to as second seed points SDS.

Then using the exchanged and updated seed points SD see the image data generating unit generates the image data ImgTemp step S . At this time the method used is the same as in the case of step S see and thus explanations therefor are omitted. Further in the case that the black matrix is not superimposed by selecting the radio button see the image data ImgTemp without modification is copied to the image data ImgTemp and the routine proceeds to the following step S.

In the case that the black matrix is superimposed by selecting the radio button see the image data generating unit generates superimposed image data i.e. the image data ImgTemp using the image data ImgTemp and the image information estimated by the image information estimating unit . The superimposed image data is image data representative of a pattern in which the black matrix as a structural pattern is superimposed on the mesh pattern .

Next the image data generating unit generates the image data ImgTemp based on the image data ImgTemp generated in step S and the image information see the explanation of step S estimated by the image information estimating unit step S . At this time the method is the same as that used in the case of step S see and thus explanations therefor are omitted.

Next the mesh pattern evaluating unit calculates an evaluation value EVPTemp based on the image data ImgTemp step S . At this time the method used is the same as in the case of step S see and thus explanations therefor are omitted.

Next the update probability calculation unit calculates an update probability Prob for updating the positions of the seed points SD step S . The phrase updating the positions implies determining as new seed points SD seed points SD that are tentatively exchanged and obtained in step S i.e. the first seed points SDN and the candidate points SP .

More specifically in accordance with the Metropolis Criterion a probability of updating the seed points SD and a probability of not updating the seed points SD are calculated. The update probability Prob is given by the following formula 4 .

The variable T represents a simulated temperature wherein in accordance with the simulated temperature T approaching an absolute temperature T 0 the updating rule for the seed points SD changes from stochastic to deterministic.

Next in accordance with the update probability Prob calculated by the update probability calculation unit the position update determining unit determines whether or not to update the positions of the seed points SD step S . For example such a determination may be made stochastically using a random number value supplied from the random number generator .

In the case that the seed points SD are to be updated an update instruction is given to the storage unit whereas in the case that the seed points SD are not to be updated a do not update instruction is given to the storage unit steps S S .

Returning to in accordance with either of the instructions update or do not update it is determined whether or not the seed points SD should be updated step S . In the case that the seed points SD are not updated step S is not performed and the routine proceeds to the next step S.

On the other hand in the case that the seed points SD are to be updated in step S the storage unit overwrites and updates the presently stored image data Img with the image data ImgTemp determined in step S. Further also in step S the storage unit overwrites and updates the presently stored evaluation value EVP with the evaluation value EVPTemp determined in step S. Furthermore also in step S the storage unit overwrites and updates the presently stored position data SDSd of the second seed points SDS with the position data SPd of the candidate points SP determined in step S. Thereafter the routine proceeds to step S.

Then the counter compares a magnitude relationship between the value of K at the present time and the predetermined value of Kmax step S . If the value of K is smaller than Kmax then the process returns to step S and steps S to S thereafter are repeated. In this case in order to sufficiently ensure convergence at an optimized calculation the value of Kmax can be set for example at Kmax 10000.

In cases apart therefrom the simulated temperature management unit decrements the simulated temperature T by T step S and then proceeds to step S. The change in the simulated temperature T is not limited to being decremented by T but the simulated temperature T may also be multiplied by a fixed constant 0

Next the simulated temperature management unit determines whether or not at the present time the simulated temperature T is equivalent to zero step S . If T is not equal to zero then the process returns to step S and steps S to S are repeated.

On the other hand if T is equivalent to zero then the simulated temperature management unit issues a notification to the output image data determining unit to the effect that evaluation by the SA method has been completed. In addition the storage unit overwrites the content of the updated image data Img which was updated for the last time in step S onto the output image data ImgOut thereby updating the same step S . In this manner generation of the output image data ImgOut step S is brought to an end.

The output image data ImgOut is used for outputting and forming the thin metal wires . For example in the case that the conductive sheet is manufactured by way of one shot exposure of both surfaces thereof to be described later the output image data ImgOut is used for fabricating a photomask pattern. Further in the case that the conductive sheet is manufactured by printing including screen printing or inkjet printing the output image data ImgOut is used as printing data.

Further apart from the touch panel the output image data ImgOut may be used to form wires of various types of electrodes such as for an inorganic EL element an organic EL element a solar cell or the like. Further apart from electrodes the inventive features can be applied to a transparent heat generating element for example a vehicle defroster that generates heat by flow of electric current and an electromagnetic shielding material for shielding electromagnetic waves.

So that the operator can visually confirm the data the obtained output image data ImgOut may be displayed on the display device and the mesh pattern may be made visual in a simulated manner. Below an example shall be described of actual visual results of the output image data ImgOut.

In contrast thereto is an outline schematic diagram in which human visual response characteristics are applied with respect to the output image data ImgOut of thereby to make the image data visual. By applying the human visual response characteristics or stated otherwise by applying a low pass filter see as shown in fine structure profiles of the mesh pattern and the black matrix almost cannot be perceived visually.

If the aforementioned method is used concerning noise characteristics of the mesh pattern an evaluation that conforms better to human visual response characteristics can be carried out.

Lastly the image cutout unit cuts out two or more first conductive patterns two or more first dummy patterns and two or more second conductive patterns respectively from the wiring pattern form of the mesh pattern of the planar region represented by the output image data ImgOut step S .

By cutting out locations except for a first region R1 the region shown in hatching from within the planar region shown in first image data are created representing a pattern on one main surface side the side in the direction of the arrow s1 in of the transparent substrate . The first region R1 has a form in which frame shapes in the form of diamonds are connected in plurality in the direction of the arrow X. More specifically in the first image data two or more first conductive patterns and two or more first dummy patterns see and are represented respectively.

Further by cutting out only the second region R2 the region shown in hatching from within the planar region shown in second image data are created representing a pattern on the other main surface side the side in the direction of the arrow s2 in of the transparent substrate . In the second image data two or more second conductive patterns see and are represented respectively. Moreover the remaining regions except for the second region R2 i.e. the blank areas inside the planar region shown in correspond respectively to positions of the first conductive patterns

In and compared with the planar region is arranged in a state of being inclined at a predetermined angle e.g. 45 . More specifically an angle formed between the arrangement direction of the unit image data ImgE and the direction of extension of the respective first conductive patterns or the respective second conductive patterns is not zero 0 

The generated first image data and second image data are used for output formation of the thin metal wires . For example in the case that the conductive sheet is manufactured using a two sided one shot exposure to be described later the first image data and the second image data are used to produce a photomask pattern. Further in the case that the conductive sheet is manufactured by printing including screen printing or inkjet printing the first image data and the second image data are used as printing data.

Next in a method of forming the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion hereinafter also referred to as the first conductive portion etc. for example by exposing to light a photosensitive material including an emulsion layer containing a photosensitive silver halide salt on the transparent substrate and carrying out development processing thereon metallic silver portions and light permeable portions may be formed respectively in exposed and non exposed areas to thereby form the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion . Moreover by further implementing at least one of a physical development treatment and a plating treatment on the metallic silver portions a conductive metal may be deposited on the metallic silver portions. With respect to the conductive sheet shown in etc. the following manufacturing method indicated below preferably is adopted. More specifically a one shot exposure is carried out with respect to photosensitive silver halide emulsion layers formed on both surfaces of the transparent substrate the first conductive portion is formed on one main surface of the transparent substrate and the second conductive portion is formed on the other main surface of the transparent substrate .

First in step S of an elongate photosensitive material is prepared. As shown in the photosensitive material has the transparent substrate a photosensitive silver halide emulsion layer hereinafter referred to as a first photosensitive layer formed on one main surface of the transparent substrate and a photosensitive silver halide emulsion layer hereinafter referred to as a second photosensitive layer formed on the other main surface of the transparent substrate .

In step S of the photosensitive material is exposed. In this step an exposure treatment two sided one shot exposure is carried out which includes a first exposure treatment for irradiating the first photosensitive layer on the transparent substrate with light in a first exposure pattern and a second exposure treatment for irradiating the second photosensitive layer on the transparent substrate with light in a second exposure pattern. In the example of the first photosensitive layer is irradiated through a first photomask with first light parallel light and the second photosensitive layer is irradiated through a second photomask with second light parallel light while the elongate photosensitive material is conveyed in one direction. The first light is light from a first light source that is converted into parallel light by an intervening first collimator lens and the second light is light from a second light source that is converted into parallel light by an intervening second collimator lens

Although two light sources the first light source and the second light source are used in the example of a single light source may be used. In this case light from one light source may be divided by an optical system into the first light and the second light which are used to irradiate the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer

In addition in step S of the exposed photosensitive material is subjected to a development process. The exposure time and the development time for the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer change depending on the type of the first light source the second light source and the developer etc. and preferred numerical ranges therefore cannot be determined categorically. However the exposure time and the development time are adjusted to achieve a development ratio of 100 .

In addition as shown in in the first exposure treatment in a production method of according to the second embodiment for example the first photomask is placed in close contact with the first photosensitive layer the first light source is arranged in facing relation to the first photomask and the first light is emitted from the first light source toward the first photomask whereby the first photosensitive layer is exposed. The first photomask is constituted from a glass substrate composed of transparent soda glass and a mask pattern first exposure pattern formed on the glass substrate. Consequently in the first exposure treatment areas in the first photosensitive layer corresponding to the first exposure pattern in the first photomask are exposed. A space of approximately 2 to 10 m may be formed between the first photosensitive layer and the first photomask

Similarly in the second exposure treatment the second photomask is placed in close contact with the second photosensitive layer the second light source is arranged in facing relation to the second photomask and the second light is emitted from the second light source toward the second photomask whereby the second photosensitive layer is exposed. The second photomask similar to the first photomask is constituted from a glass substrate composed of transparent soda glass and a mask pattern second exposure pattern formed on the glass substrate. Consequently in the second exposure treatment areas in the second photosensitive layer corresponding to the second exposure pattern in the second photomask are exposed. A space of approximately 2 to 10 m may be formed between the second photosensitive layer and the second photomask

In the first and second exposure treatments the timing of emission of first light from the first light source and the timing of emission of second light from the second light source may be carried out simultaneously or independently. In the case that the emissions are carried out simultaneously the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer can be exposed simultaneously in one exposure process thus enabling the treatment time to be reduced.

Lastly in step S of a lamination process is carried out on the photosensitive material following development thereof whereby the conductive sheet is completed. More specifically the first protective layer is formed on the side of the first photosensitive layer and the second protective layer is formed on the side of the second photosensitive layer . As a result the first sensor part and the second sensor part are protected.

In the foregoing manner using the above two sided one shot exposure production method the electrodes of the touch panel can be formed easily and the touch panel can be made thinner lower in profile .

In the above production method the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion are formed using a photosensitive silver halide emulsion layer. However other production methods may be used including the following methods.

For example the first conductive portion etc. may be formed by exposing a photoresist film on a copper foil formed on the transparent substrate followed by performing a development treatment to form a resist pattern and then etching parts of the copper foil exposed through the resist pattern. Alternatively the first conductive portion etc. may be formed by printing a paste which contains metal micro particles on the transparent substrate and then subjecting the printed paste to metal plating. Alternatively the first conductive portion etc. may be formed on the transparent substrate by printing using a screen printing plate or a gravure printing plate. Alternatively the first conductive portion etc. may be formed by carrying out inkjet printing on the transparent substrate .

Next with reference to descriptions shall be given concerning other embodiments of the conductive sheet according to the present embodiment.

The present invention can be applied not only to an electrostatic capacitance type but also to a resistive film type as well as to a digital type or an analog type of touch panel . Below with reference to the structure and operational principles of such a touch panel will be described.

A digital resistive film type touch panel comprises a lower side panel an upper side panel arranged in confronting relation to the lower side panel a frame adhesive layer bonded to peripheral edge portions of the lower side panel and the upper side panel and which serves to electrically insulate both the panels from each other and an FPC Flexible Printed Circuit sandwiched between the lower side panel and the upper side panel .

As shown in and the upper side panel includes a first transparent substrate made from a flexible material e.g. resin and a first sensor part and a first terminal wire portion formed on one main surface a side in the direction of the arrow Z2 thereof. The first sensor part includes at least two first conductive patterns formed by plural thin metal wires respectively. The band shaped first conductive patterns extend respectively in the direction of the arrow Y and are arranged at equal intervals in the direction of the arrow X. Each of the first conductive patterns is connected electrically to the FPC through the first terminal wire portion . Band shaped first dummy patterns are disposed respectively between each of the first conductive patterns

As shown in and the lower side panel includes a second transparent substrate made from a highly rigid material e.g. glass a second sensor part and a second terminal wire portion formed on one main surface a side in the direction of the arrow Z1 thereof and a plurality of dot spacers arranged on the second sensor part at predetermined intervals. The second sensor part includes at least two second conductive patterns formed by plural thin metal wires respectively. The band shaped second conductive patterns extend respectively in the direction of the arrow X and are arranged at equal intervals in the direction of the arrow Y. Each of the second conductive patterns is connected electrically to the FPC through the second terminal wire portion . Band shaped second dummy patterns are disposed respectively between each of the second conductive patterns

As shown in and in a state in which the upper side panel and the lower side panel are bonded together the first sensor part and the second sensor part are separated by a predetermined distance via respective dot spacers . In addition each of the first conductive patterns and each of the second conductive patterns intersect one another respectively whereby substantially square shaped overlapping areas are formed in plurality. Furthermore the dot spacers are disposed respectively at positions where each of the first dummy patterns and each of the second dummy patterns intersect one another respectively. More specifically one dot spacer is arranged at each corner of the overlapping areas .

Next operations of the touch panel will be described. Pressure is applied from the input surface the main surface on the side of the arrow Z1 of the first transparent substrate whereby the flexible first transparent substrate is bent in a concave shape. Upon being bent in this manner at a region that corresponds to one overlapping area surrounded by the four dot spacers nearest to the pressing position a portion of the first conductive pattern is placed in contact with a portion of the second conductive pattern . Under this condition by application of voltage via the FPC a potential gradient is generated between the upper side panel and the lower side panel . More specifically through the FPC by reading the voltage from the upper side panel an x axis input position in the direction of the arrow X can be detected. Similarly by reading the voltage from the lower side panel a y axis input position in the direction of the arrow Y can be detected.

In this case the width w3 of the first conductive pattern or the second conductive pattern may be set in various ways corresponding to the resolution and for example preferably is set on the order of 1 to 5 mm. The width w4 of the first dummy pattern or the second dummy pattern preferably is within a range of 50 200 m in view of the insulative properties with respect to the first conductive pattern or the second conductive pattern and the sensitivity of the touch panel .

If portions of the regions shown in single hatching first conductive patterns and second conductive pattern and the regions shown in double hatching first dummy patterns and second dummy patterns shown in and are expanded the structure of the mesh pattern shown in is made apparent. More specifically under a condition in which the upper side panel and the lower side panel are superimposed a wiring pattern preferably is determined such that suppression of moir phenomenon and reduction of noise graininess can be achieved at the same time.

A conductive sheet may include not only the isotropic mesh pattern but may also include an anisotropic non isotropic mesh pattern .

As can be understood from and the mesh shapes respective openings of the mesh pattern have an overall horizontal elongate shape compared with the mesh shapes of the mesh pattern . The basis for the shapes thereof is estimated as described below.

As shown in by disposing the red color sub pixels the green color sub pixels and the blue color sub pixels in the direction of the arrow X single pixels are defined respectively in regions of whereby the degree of noise graininess of high spatial frequency components tends to increase. On the other hand in the direction of the arrow Y spatial frequency components only exist that correspond to the arrangement period of the black matrix and spatial frequency components apart therefrom do not exist. Thus the form of the mesh pattern each of the mesh shapes is determined such that visibility of the arrangement period is reduced. More specifically the spacing interval between the respective wires that extend in the direction of the arrow Y is determined so as to be narrow as much as possible compared with the direction of the arrow X and so that the wires are arranged regularly between the black matrix .

In the foregoing manner it is possible to optimize the mesh pattern while taking into consideration the form of a structural pattern that includes the black matrix . Stated otherwise sensation of noise graininess is reduced in observing under conditions of actual use and the visibility of objects to be observed can be improved significantly. Such features are particularly effective in the case that the actual conditions of use of the conductive sheet are known beforehand.

The conductive sheet may include not only the random mesh pattern but may also include a regularly arranged mesh pattern . In this case as well similar to the case of the random mesh pattern the first effect see or the second effect see of enhancing visibility can be obtained.

As shown in the first conductive portion or the second conductive portion includes a mesh pattern formed such that plural thin metal wires which extend in the direction of the arrow q and are arrayed at a pitch Ps in the direction of the arrow r and plural thin metal wires which extend in the direction of the arrow r and are arrayed at a pitch Ps in the direction of the arrow q intersect one another respectively. In this case the direction of the arrow q is inclined at an angle greater than or equal to 30 and less than or equal to 60 with respect to a reference direction horizontal direction and the direction of the arrow r is inclined at an angle between 30 and 60 . Consequently any one of the mesh shapes of the mesh pattern i.e. the combined shape of one opening and four thin metal wires that surround the one opening is of a diamond shape with vertex angles which are greater than or equal to 60 and less than or equal to 120 . The pitch Ps can be selected from values greater than or equal to 100 m and less than or equal to 400 m.

In the foregoing manner even in the case of the mesh pattern in which the same mesh shapes are arranged in a regular manner advantages and effects which are the same as those of the above described embodiment can be obtained.

Next in the conductive sheet according to the present embodiment a method will be discussed focusing on use of a silver halide photosensitive material as a particularly preferred form thereof.

The method of manufacturing the conductive sheet according to the present embodiment includes the following three processes depending on the photosensitive materials and development treatments.

 1 A process comprising subjecting a photosensitive black and white silver halide material free of physical development nuclei to a chemical or thermal development to form the metallic silver portions on the photosensitive material.

 2 A process comprising subjecting a photosensitive black and white silver halide material having a silver halide emulsion layer containing physical development nuclei to a solution physical development process to thereby form the metallic silver portions on the photosensitive material.

 3 A process comprising subjecting a stack of a photosensitive black and white silver halide material free of physical development nuclei and an image receiving sheet having a non photosensitive layer containing physical development nuclei to a diffusion transfer development to form the metallic silver portions on the non photosensitive image receiving sheet.

In process 1 an integral black and white development procedure is used to form a translucent conductive film on the photosensitive material. The resulting silver is chemically or thermally developed silver containing a high specific surface area filament and thereby exhibits a high activity in the following plating or physical development treatment.

In process 2 silver halide particles are melted around the physical development nuclei and deposited on the nuclei in exposed areas to form a translucent conductive film such as a light transmitting conductive film on the photosensitive material. Also in this process an integral black and white development procedure is used. Although high activity can be achieved since the silver halide is deposited on the physical development nuclei during development the developed silver has a spherical shape with a small specific surface.

In process 3 silver halide particles are melted in unexposed areas and diffused and deposited on the development nuclei of an image receiving sheet to thereby form a translucent conductive film such as a light transmitting conductive film on the sheet. In this process a so called separation type procedure is used and the image receiving sheet is peeled off from the photosensitive material.

A negative or reversal development treatment can be used in any of the foregoing processes. In the diffusion transfer development the negative development treatment can be carried out using an auto positive photosensitive material.

The chemical development thermal development solution physical development and diffusion transfer development have the meanings generally known in the art and are explained in common photographic chemistry texts such as Shinichi Kikuchi Shashin Kagaku Photographic Chemistry Kyoritsu Shuppan Co. Ltd. 1955 and C. E. K. Mees The Theory of Photographic Processes 4th ed. McMillan 1977. A liquid treatment is generally used in the present invention and also a thermal development treatment can be utilized. For example the techniques described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2004 184693 2004 334077 and 2005 010752 and Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2004 244080 and 2004 085655 can be used in the present invention.

An explanation shall now be given in relation to the structure of each layer of the conductive sheet according to the present embodiment.

Plastic films plastic plates glass plates or the like can be given as examples of materials to be used as the transparent substrate .

As materials for the aforementioned plastic film and plastic plate there can be used for example polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate PET polyethylene naphthalate PEN etc. and Polymethyl Methacrylate PMMA Polypropylene PP Polystyrene PS Triacetyl Cellulose TAC etc.

As materials for the transparent substrate preferably plastic films or plastic plates having a melting point less than or equal to about 290 C. are used. In particular PET is preferred from the standpoints of workability and optical transparency.

The silver halide emulsion layer that forms the thin metal wires of the first stacked portion and the second stacked portion includes additives such as solvents and dyes etc. in addition to silver salt and a binder.

The silver salt used in the present embodiment may include an inorganic silver salt such as a silver halide and an organic silver salt such as silver acetate or the like. In the present embodiment preferably silver halide is used which has excellent light sensitive properties.

The coated silver amount silver salt coating amount of the silver halide emulsion layer in terms of the silver therein preferably is 1 30 g m more preferably is 1 25 g m and still more preferably is 5 20 g m. By keeping the silver coating amount within the above described ranges desirable surface resistivity can be obtained in the case of the conductive sheet .

As examples of binders that are used in the present embodiment there may be used for example gelatins polyvinyl alcohols PVA polyvinyl pyrolidones PVP polysaccharides such as starches celluloses and derivatives thereof polyethylene oxides polyvinylamines chitosans polylysines polyacrylic acids polyalginic acids polyhyaluronic acids and carboxycelluloses etc. Such binders exhibit neutral anionic or cationic properties depending on the ionic properties of the functional group.

The contained weight of the binder that is included in the silver salt emulsion layer of the present embodiment is not particularly limited but can be determined suitably from within a range that exhibits properties of good dispersibility and adhesion. The contained weight of the binder in the silver salt emulsion layer preferably is or greater and more preferably is or greater in terms of the silver binder volume ratio. The silver to binder silver binder volume ratio is preferably 100 1 or less and more preferably is 50 1 or less. Further the silver to binder volume ratio is preferably 1 1 to 4 1 and most preferably is 1 1 to 3 1. By maintaining the silver to binder volume ratio of the silver salt emulsion layer within such ranges even in the event that the amount of the silver coating is adjusted variance in resistance is suppressed and a conductive sheet having uniform surface resistivity can be obtained. Incidentally the silver to binder volume ratio can be determined by converting the silver halide amount binder amount of the raw materials weight ratio into a silver amount binder amount weight ratio and furthermore by converting the silver amount binder amount weight ratio into a silver amount binder amount volume ratio .

Solvents used in forming the silver salt emulsion layer are not particularly limited. The following solvents can be cited as examples water organic solvents e.g. alcohols such as methanol ketones such as acetone amides such as formamide sulfoxides such as dimethyl sulfoxide esters such as ethyl acetate and ethers ionic liquids and mixtures of such solvents.

In relation to various additive agents used in the present embodiment the additive agents are not limited and preferably known types of such additive agents can be used.

As the first protective layer and the second protective layer similar to the transparent substrate plastic films plastic plates glass plates or the like can be given as examples of materials to be used therefor. For example PET PEN PMMA PP PS TAC etc. can be used.

The thickness of the first protective layer and the second protective layer is not particularly limited and can easily be selected responsive to aims of the invention. For example preferably the thickness is 5 100 m more preferably is 8 50 m and still more preferably is 10 30 m.

In the present embodiment although a case has been described in which the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion are implemented by means of a printing technique apart from using a printing technique the first conductive portion and the second conductive portion may be formed by exposure development etc. More specifically exposure is carried out on the photosensitive material including the silver salt containing layer or on the photosensitive material on which the photolithographic photopolymer is coated which is disposed on the transparent substrate . Exposure can be carried out by use of electromagnetic waves. For example light such as visible light or ultraviolet light or radiation such as X rays or the like may be used to generate electromagnetic waves. Exposure may also be carried out using a light source having a wavelength distribution or a specific wavelength.

In the present embodiment after exposure of the emulsion layer the emulsion layer is further subjected to a development treatment. The development treatment can be performed using common development treatment technologies for silver halide photographic films photographic papers printing plate films emulsion masks for photomasking and the like.

The development process according to the present invention can include a fixing process which is carried out with the aim of stabilizing by removing unexposed portions of the silver salt. The fixing process in the present invention can utilize a fixing technique that makes use of a silver halide photographic film photographic paper a printing plate film an emulsion mask for a photomask or the like.

Preferably at least one of a water washing process and a stabilization treatment is carried out on the photosensitive material on which the development and fixing processes have been implemented.

The amount by mass of the metallic silver portion included in the exposed portions after the development process preferably is of a content ratio of 50 percent by mass or greater and more preferably is 80 percent by mass or greater with respect to the amount by mass of the silver contained in the exposed portion prior to being exposed. If the amount by mass of the silver contained in the exposed portion is 50 percent by mass or greater with respect to the amount by mass of the silver contained in the exposed portion prior to being exposed then a high degree of conductivity can be obtained.

The conductive sheet is obtained by the above steps. The conductive sheet may further be subjected to a calendaring treatment after the development treatment. By means of a calendaring treatment adjustment to a desired surface resistivity can be achieved. The surface resistivity of the resultant conductive sheet preferably is within a range of 0.1 300 ohm sq.

The surface resistivity differs depending on how the conductive sheet is used. For example in the case of being used as a touch panel the surface resistivity preferably is 1 70 ohm sq. and more preferably is 5 50 ohm sq. and still more preferably is 5 30 ohm sq. Further in the case of being used as an electromagnetic wave shield the surface resistivity preferably is less than or equal to 10 ohm sq. and more preferably is 0.1 3 ohm sq.

In the present embodiment in order to improve the conductivity of the metallic silver portion formed by the above exposure and development treatments conductive metal particles may be deposited on the metallic silver portion by at least one of a physical development treatment and a plating treatment. In the present invention the conductive metal particles may be deposited on the metallic silver portion by only one of the physical development and plating treatments or by a combination of such treatments. The metallic silver portion which is subjected to at least one of a physical development treatment and a plating treatment in this manner may also be referred to as a conductive metal portion as well as the metallic silver portion itself.

In the present embodiment physical development refers to a process in which metal ions such as silver ions are reduced by a reducing agent whereby metal particles are deposited on a metal or metal compound core. Such physical development has been used in the fields of instant B W film instant slide film printing plate production etc. and similar technologies can be used in the present invention. Physical development may be carried out at the same time as the above development treatment following exposure or may be carried out separately after completion of the development treatment.

In the present embodiment the plating treatment may contain non electrolytic plating such as chemical reduction plating or displacement plating electrolytic plating or a combination of both non electrolytic plating and electrolytic plating. Known non electrolytic plating technologies for example technologies used in printed circuit boards etc. may be used in the present embodiment. Preferably electroless copper plating is used in the case of such non electrolytic plating.

With the manufacturing method for a conductive sheet according to the present invention the plating step etc. are not indispensable. In the present manufacturing method a desired surface resistivity can be obtained by adjusting the coated silver amount of the silver salt emulsion layer and the silver binder volumetric ratio.

In the present embodiment the metallic silver portion following the development treatment and the conductive metal portion which is formed by at least one of the physical development treatment and the plating treatment preferably are subjected to an oxidation treatment. For example by the oxidation treatment a small amount of metal deposited on the light transmitting portion can be removed so that the transmittance of the light transmitting portion can be increased to roughly 100 .

It is preferred after the silver salt emulsion layer has been developed for the resultant product to be immersed in a hardener and subjected to a hardening treatment. Examples of suitable hardeners for example can include dialdehyde type hardeners such as glutaraldehyde adipaldehyde and 2 3 dihydroxy 1 4 dioxane and boric acid type hardeners as described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 02 141279.

In the conductive sheet according to the present embodiment a layer that functions as an antireflection layer a hard coat layer or the like may also be provided.

A calendaring treatment may be carried out to effect smoothing on the developed metallic silver portion. As a result conductivity of the metallic silver portion can be markedly increased. The calendaring treatment can be performed using a calendar roll wherein such a calendar roll typically is made up from a pair of rolls.

As rolls that are used in the calendaring process plastic rolls of epoxy polyimide polyamide polyimide amide etc. or metallic rolls are used. In particular in the case of using emulsion layers on both surfaces preferably processing is carried out by a pair of metallic rolls. In the case of having an emulsion layer on one side only from the standpoint of preventing wrinkles a metallic roll and a plastic roll can be used together in combination. The upper limit value of linear pressure applied by the rolls is 1960 N cm 200 kgf cm or 699.4 kgf cmif converted to surface pressure or greater and more preferably is 2940 N cm 300 kgf cm or 935.8 kgf cmif converted to surface pressure or greater. The upper limit value of linear pressure is 6880 N cm 700 kgf cm or less.

The applicable temperature at which the smoothing process represented by calendar rollers is carried out preferably lies within a range of 10 C. without temperature adjustment to 100 C. and more preferably lies within a range of 10 C. without temperature adjustment to 50 C. although the applicable temperature range differs depending on the type of binder or the image line density and shape of the metallic mesh pattern or the metallic wiring pattern.

For protecting the first sensor part and the second sensor part etc. a protective layer may be formed on the silver halide emulsion layer. Adhesiveness can be adjusted freely by disposing the first adhesive layer or the second adhesive layer between the protective layer and the silver halide emulsion layer.

Wet laminating adhesives dry laminating adhesives or hot melt adhesives etc. may be used as suitable materials for the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer . In particular the dry laminating adhesives are particularly preferred in light of their fast bonding speed and a variety of types of materials that can be bonded thereby. More specifically as dry laminating adhesives amino resin adhesives phenol resin adhesives chloroprene rubber adhesives nitrile rubber adhesives epoxy adhesives urethane adhesives and reactive acrylic adhesives etc. can be used. Among such adhesives OCA Optical Clear Adhesive Registered Trademark manufactured by Sumitomo 3M which is an acrylic based low acid value adhesive is preferred.

Concerning the drying conditions a temperature environment of 30 150 C. for 1 30 minutes is preferred. A drying temperature of 50 120 C. is particularly preferred.

Further instead of the aforementioned adhesive layer interlayer adhesion can be regulated by surface treatment of at least one of the transparent substrate and the protective layer. For enhancing adhesive strength with the silver halide emulsion layer for example a corona discharge treatment a flame treatment an ultraviolet irradiation treatment a high frequency irradiation treatment a glow discharge irradiation treatment an active plasma irradiation treatment and a laser beam irradiation treatment etc. may be implemented.

In the present invention the technologies of the following Japanese Laid Open Patent Publications and PCT International Publication Numbers shown in Table 1 and Table 2 can appropriately be used in combination. In the following Tables 1 and 2 conventional notations such as Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. Publication No. Pamphlet No. WO etc. have been omitted.

Examples of the present invention will be described more specifically below. Materials amounts ratios treatment contents treatment procedures and the like used in the examples may be appropriately changed without departing from the essential scope of the present invention. Therefore the following specific examples should be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

In the examples in relation to conductive sheets according to inventive examples 1 to 7 comparative examples 1 to 3 and reference examples 1 and 2 visibility noise graininess and rate of change in brightness were evaluated in a display device incorporating the above conductive sheets .

An emulsion containing an aqueous medium gelatin and silver iodobromochloride particles was prepared. The amount of gelatin was 10.0 g per 150 g of Ag in the aqueous medium. The silver iodobromochloride particles therein had an I content of 0.2 mol a Br content of 40 mol and an average spherical equivalent diameter of 0.1 m.

KRhBrand KIrClwere added to the emulsion at a concentration of 10mol mol Ag in order to dope the silver bromide particles with Rh and Ir ions. NaPdClwas further added to the emulsion and the resultant emulsion was subjected to gold sulfur sensitization using chlorauric acid and sodium thiosulfate. Thereafter the emulsion and a gelatin hardening agent were applied to each of a transparent substrate composed of polyethylene terephthalate PET having an index of refraction n0 1.64 such that the amount of applied silver was 10 g m. The Ag gelatin volume ratio was 2 1.

The PET support body had a width of 300 mm and the emulsion was applied thereto at a width of 250 mm and a length of 20 m. Both end portions having a width of 30 mm were cut off from the PET support body in order to obtain a roll shaped photosensitive silver halide material having a central coating width of 240 mm.

Using the SA method as described in the present embodiment see output image data ImgOut were created representing the mesh pattern see made up from the spread out polygonal mesh shapes .

The set conditions for the mesh pattern were established such that the total transmittance was 93 the thickness of the transparent substrate was 20 m the width of the thin metal wires was 20 m and the thickness of the thin metal wires was 10 m. The size of the planar region was set to 5 mm both vertically and horizontally and the image resolution was set to 3500 dpi dots per inch . Initial positions of the seed points SD were determined randomly using a Mersenne Twister algorithm and respective polygonal mesh shapes were determined in accordance with a Voronoi diagram. Evaluation values EVP were calculated based on the L a b color values of the image data Img. In addition according to the example of the output image data ImgOut were arranged regularly to create an exposure pattern having a repeating shape.

First the radio button on the setting screen of was selected and with PRESENCE ABSENCE OF MATRIX being set to ABSENCE the output image data ImgOut was created. As a result output image data ImgOut representing the form of the mesh pattern shown in was obtained.

On the other hand conditions for the black matrix were set such that the optical density was 4.5 D the pixel had a vertical size of 200 m and also a horizontal size of 200 m and the vertical lattice width and the horizontal lattice width were both 20 m.

Secondly the radio button on the setting screen of was selected and with PRESENCE ABSENCE OF MATRIX being set to PRESENCE the output image data ImgOut was created. As a result output image data ImgOut representing the pattern of the mesh pattern of was obtained.

Next as shown in by cutting out the output image data ImgOut a first exposure pattern made up from a region excluding the first region R1 and a second exposure pattern made up from the second image region R2 were created respectively.

Exposure was carried out respectively with respect to both surfaces of an A4 sized 210 mm 297 mm transparent substrate . Exposure was performed through photomasks of the above described first exposure pattern corresponding to the first conductive portion and second exposure pattern corresponding to the second conductive portion using a high pressure mercury lamp as a parallel light source. For manufacturing the conductive sheets of inventive examples 1 to 6 and reference examples 1 and 2 exposure patterns corresponding to the mesh pattern were used respectively. Further for manufacturing the conductive sheet of inventive example 7 and an exposure pattern corresponding to the mesh pattern see was used. Furthermore for manufacturing conductive sheets according to comparative examples 1 to 3 exposure patterns corresponding to patterns PT1 to PT3 see were used respectively.

Using the treatment agents as listed above a development treatment was conducted on the photosensitive material following exposure thereof using an automatic development machine FG 710PTS manufactured by FUJIFILM Corporation under the following development conditions development 30 seconds at 35 C. fixation 23 seconds at 34 C. water washing 20 seconds under running water 5 L min .

The first protective layer and the second protective layer which are made up from the same material were attached respectively on both surfaces of the photosensitive material following development thereof As described later for each of the samples of the conductive sheet a protective film having a different index of refraction n1 was used. Further a commercially available adhesive tape NSS50 1310 thickness 50 m manufactured by New Tac Kasei Co. Ltd. was used as the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer see . In addition after attachment of the first protective layer and the second protective layer in order to prevent the occurrence of air bubbles an autoclave treatment was carried out for 20 minutes at 0.5 atm. in a 40 C. environment.

For convenience of evaluation the first protective layer with a portion of the sheet thereof cut out was used. More specifically a setup was provided in which a difference was observable one time between a case index of refraction n1 in which the first protective layer was formed and a case an air layer having an index of refraction of 1.00 in which the first protective layer was not formed. In the following descriptions a displayed location corresponding to the cutout portion of the first protective layer is referred to an A region while the remaining displayed location is referred to as a B region.

A conductive sheet according to the first inventive example was manufactured using polychlorotrifluoroethylene PCTFE with an index of refraction n1 1.42 as the first protective layer . In this case the relative index of refraction nr1 was nr1 1.42 1.64 0.86.

A conductive sheet according to the second inventive example was manufactured using polymethyl methacrylate PMMA with an index of refraction n1 1.50 as the first protective layer . In this case the relative index of refraction nr1 was nr1 1.50 1.64 0.91.

Further concerning comparative example 1 corresponding to the pattern PT1 see comparative example 2 corresponding to the pattern PT2 see and comparative example 3 corresponding to the pattern PT3 see respective samples were made by covering the aforementioned patterns with polymethyl methacrylate.

Conductive sheets according to the third and seventh inventive examples were manufactured using polystyrene PS with an index of refraction n1 1.60 as the first protective layer . In this case the relative index of refraction nr1 was nr1 1.60 1.64 0.97.

A conductive sheet according to the fourth inventive example was manufactured using polythiourethane PTU with an index of refraction n1 1.70 as the first protective layer . In this case the relative index of refraction nr1 was nr1 1.70 1.64 1.03.

A conductive sheet according to the fifth inventive example was manufactured using glass with a high index of refraction n1 1.78 as the first protective layer . In this case the relative index of refraction nr1 was nr1 1.78 1.64 1.08.

A conductive sheet according to the sixth inventive example was manufactured using glass with an ultrahigh index of refraction n1 1.90 as the first protective layer . In this case the relative index of refraction nr1 was nr1 1.90 1.64 1.15.

A conductive sheet according to a first reference example was manufactured using tetrafluoroethylene FEP with an index of refraction n1 1.34 as a first protective layer. In this case the relative index of refraction nr1 was nr1 1.34 1.64 0.81.

A conductive sheet according to a second reference example was manufactured using glass with an ultrahigh index of refraction n1 1.98 as a first protective layer. In this case the relative index of refraction nr1 was nr1 1.98 1.64 1.20.

The samples according to Inventive Examples 1 to 7 Comparative Examples 1 to 3 and Reference Examples 1 and 2 were bonded respectively on the display screen of the display unit . As the display unit a commercially available color liquid crystal display screen size 11.6 type 1366 768 dots vertical and horizontal pixel pitches both 192 m was used.

To evaluate uniformity in surface resistivity a surface resistivity of each of the samples of Inventive Example 2 and Comparative Examples 1 to 3 was measured at ten arbitrary sites using a LORESTA GP Model MCP T610 inline 4 pin type probe ASP manufactured by Dia Instruments Co. Ltd. to obtain an average value of the surface resistivities.

Under a condition in which the display unit was controlled to display a white color maximum brightness three researchers carried out sensory evaluations respectively of their sensations to graininess sensation of image roughness . In this evaluation sensation of noise of brightness due to the mesh shapes and sensation of noise in colors due to the structure of the sub pixels were quantified in a comprehensive manner. The observation distance from the display screen was set at 300 mm and the interior illumination was set at 300 lx respectively. Three samples were used for each level.

In the present sensory evaluation comparative observations were performed with respect to visibility results of the A region a display area where the first protective layer is not formed . More specifically with respect to the A region if the sensation of noise graininess of the B region was significantly improved 5 points were given if improved 4 points were given if unchanged 3 points were given if made worse 2 points were given and if made significantly worse 1 point was given respectively. In addition the scores given by the respective researchers were averaged to provide an evaluation value of noise graininess.

Luminance of the display screen was measured under a condition in which the display unit was controlled to display a white color maximum brightness . To perform such measurements an LS 100 Luminance Meter made by Konica Minolta was used. The measurement distance from the display screen was set at 300 mm the measurement angle was set at 2 and the interior illumination was set at less than or equal to 1 lx respectively.

With the luminance of the A region being represented by La cd m and the luminance of the B region being represented by Lb cd m the rate of change in luminance units was calculated as 100 Lb La La. The measurement position inside the region B was set in proximity to a boundary with the region A taking into consideration in plane uniformity.

In Inventive Example 2 as well as Comparative Examples 1 to 3 the surface resistivity was of a sufficiently practical level to function as the transparent electrodes and translucency also was good. In particular Inventive Example 2 conductive sheet according to the present invention exhibited the smallest variation in surface resistivity.

In the following Table 3 results are shown of sensory evaluations and more specifically of evaluation values rounded to one decimal place in relation to Inventive Examples 1 to 6 and Reference Examples 1 and 2.

 1 In relation to visibility of patterns having different shapes high evaluation results were obtained in order of Inventive Example 2 Comparative Example 3 Comparative Example 1 and Comparative Example 2. This order corresponds to an increasing order of the areas formed by peaks of the power spectra shown in . In particular it was confirmed that in Inventive Example 2 conductive sheet according to the present invention noise graininess was less conspicuous.

 2 In relation to visibility of patterns of different isotropy sensation to noise was not evident levels enabling sufficient practicality as a transparent electrode and good translucency were exhibited in Inventive Examples 3 and 7. In particular in the case of Inventive Example 7 sensation to noise was confirmed to be less conspicuous than Inventive Example 3.

Furthermore using a transparent plate instead of a liquid crystal panel illumination through backlighting was observed and the same visual evaluation was performed. In the evaluation sensation to noise was confirmed to be less conspicuous in Inventive Example 3 than in Inventive Example 7. More specifically the evaluation results verified that the patterns of mesh patterns were optimized depending on visual aspects of the conductive sheet more specifically depending on the presence or absence of the black matrix or color filters of the red sub pixels etc.

 3 As shown in and Table 3 in any of Inventive Examples 1 to 6 and reference examples 1 and 2 the evaluation values exceeded 3 and a reduction in noise graininess was obtained by eliminating the air layer. Among these results in any of Inventive Examples 1 to 6 the evaluation values exceeded 4 and compared to Inventive Examples 1 and 2 more significant effects were observed.

In a degree of change in the evaluation value is large at three points plotted on each of both ends of the figure and linear approximation was performed on the three points on each end in the figure. According to such approximation curves if the relative index of refraction nr1 roughly satisfies the inequality 0.85 nr1 1.17 favorable results are exhibited since the evaluation value is equal to or greater than 4.0. In addition in the case that the evaluation value is equal to or greater than 4.2 and more specifically if the relative index of refraction nr1 satisfies the inequality 0.86 nr1 1.15 noise graininess can be suppressed.

In the following Table 4 in any of Inventive Examples 1 to 6 and Reference Examples 1 and 2 the rate of change in luminance was positive and luminance of the display screen was enhanced by eliminating the air layer air gap .

Among these results in any of Inventive Examples 2 to 5 the rate of change in luminance exceeded 20 and compared to Inventive Examples 1 and 6 the difference was of a degree that could be perceived visually. More specifically if the relative index of refraction nr1 satisfied the inequality 0.91 nr1 1.08 results were obtained capable of further enhancing display brightness.

Other than the above described Inventive Examples the following findings were obtained based on results of similar evaluations that were performed while changing the production conditions of the conductive sheet in various ways.

 1 The material of the transparent substrate is not limited to PET and in a range that satisfies the above described relationship of the relative indices of refraction nr1 and nr2 the same experimental results were obtained regardless of the material. Further if the second protective layer and the first protective layer are made of different materials similar results are obtained in a range that satisfies the above described relationship.

 2 By making any one of the relative indices of refraction nr1 nr2 greater than or equal to 0.86 and less than or equal to 1.15 an effect was obtained in which the sensation of noise graininess was reduced. Further by making both of the relative indices of refraction nr1 nr2 greater than or equal to 0.86 and less than or equal to 1.15 a significantly reduced effect was obtained.

 3 By making any one of the relative indices of refraction nr1 nr2 greater than or equal to 0.91 and less than or equal to 1.08 an effect was obtained in which the amount of light irradiated externally through the display screen i.e. the brightness of the display was enhanced. Further by making both of the relative indices of refraction nr1 nr2 greater than or equal to 0.91 and less than or equal to 1.08 a significantly enhanced effect was obtained.

 4 Even if the conductive sheet is arranged in a state of having the front and back thereof inverted the same evaluation results described above were obtained.

The present invention is not limited to the embodiments described above but various changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the invention.

For example the pattern material is not limited to being a black matrix and it goes without saying that responsive to the various uses thereof the present invention can be applied with respect to structural patterns of various shapes.

