---

title: Multiplexed microfluidic approach for nucleic acid enrichment
abstract: A system for enhancing a nucleic acid sample may include a one pump, a denaturing chamber; a microfluidic hydroxyapatite chromatography device configured for performing hydroxyapatite chromatography on the nucleic acid sample, a sample collector, and tubing connecting the pump with the denaturing chamber, the hydroxyapatite chromatography device and the sample collector such that the pump may be used to move the nucleic acid sample from the denaturing chamber to the hydroxyapatite chromatography device and then to the sample collector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09322014&OS=09322014&RS=09322014
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09322014
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131120
---
This application claims the benefit of the earlier filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 730 820 entitled Multiplexed Microfluidic Approach for Nucleic Acid Enrichment filed Nov. 28 2012 which application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for any purpose.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to microfluidic systems and methods for nucleic acid signal enrichment.

Second generation sequencing SGS has revolutionized whole genome sequencing and transcriptome analysis of many organisms. In particular sequencing of cDNA made from cellular RNA RNA Seq enables RNA expression profiling with high dynamic range and genome coverage. RNA Seq has expanded our knowledge of non coding transcripts and led to discoveries of novel alternative splicing of RNA in various eukaryotic cell types. The primary component of eukaryotic total RNA is ribosomal RNA rRNA with all other coding noncoding and small RNAs representing less than 15 of the total RNA population. High abundance of rRNA derived sequences in cDNA libraries diminishes the utility of SGS RNA Seq for functional genomics studies because only a small fraction of reads are from sequences of interest. In this context cDNA library preparation techniques that efficiently remove highly abundant rRNA derived sequence populations prior to sequencing are highly desirable.

A common method for excluding rRNA is to select for mRNAs that contain long polyadenylated tails for example by using polythymidine primers in cDNA construction protocols. This approach while highly effective in removing rRNA also depletes all non polyadenylated host transcripts such as non coding RNAs that regulate eukaryotic cellular function and viral and prokaryotic microbial sequences present in many complex sample types. Alternative ribosomal RNA removal protocols such as ribosomal oligonucleotide mediated capture techniques e.g. Ribominus and RiboZero are species specific and require extensive ribosomal sequence data for probe design. Both techniques are multi step procedures during which RNA can degrade and both require large amounts of starting material 1 10 g of total RNA limiting the experimental design and sample types for which they are practical.

An alternative to excluding rRNA sequences from cDNA preparation is to apply techniques variously called cDNA normalization or Ct filtration that remove highly abundant sequences from DNA libraries. illustrates the basic process of DNA normalization. The process begins with a starting DNA population or sample . In normalization double stranded DNA populations are first denatured at an elevated temperature and then allowed to re anneal or rehybridize typically at a reduced temperature. Highly abundant sequences hybridize at higher rates proportional to the square of their concentration and if the re annealing reaction is stopped at a suitable time e.g. 4 24 hours the highly abundant sequences comprise the majority of double stranded species. The next step in the process is to separate double stranded DNA dsDNA and single stranded DNA ssDNA . If the two can be separated the representation of the highest abundance species in the resulting ssDNA fraction can be significantly reduced.

HAC has not yet gained widespread usage in the normalization arena compared to the duplex specific thermostable nuclease DSN approach for RNA Seq applications however possibly as a result of perceived disadvantages. These disadvantages include labor intensiveness unacceptably high starting material requirements and poor reproducibility.

Another alternative approach for nucleic acid signal enrichment suppression is based on the selective capture of unwanted sequences. In capture mode the sample is also denatured and then allowed to anneal in the presence of excess biotinylated probes generated against the highly abundant species. The probes and any nucleic acids bound to them are then captured in a streptavidin chromatography column and the resulting sample flowing through the column is then depleted with respect to the high abundance species. Commercially available kits enable capture based enrichment of libraries for the human exome. However these kits are not versatile they have very limited utility outside of human SNP detection.

These two techniques HAC and capture based enrichment have been shown to be highly effective but both are generally very time and labor intensive require unacceptably large amounts of starting material sample and have poor reproducibility. Therefore it would be desirable to have new systems and methods for enriching nucleic acid samples. Ideally such systems and methods would be less time and labor intensive would work with smaller sample sizes than required by current methods and would be highly reproducible.

Certain details are set forth below to provide a sufficient understanding of embodiments of the invention. Embodiments of the invention may be practiced however without various of these particular details. In some instances various aspects have not been shown in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the described embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention may address individual drawbacks or combinations of drawbacks of other techniques described herein. However the drawbacks and advantages described herein are provided by way of example only and are not intended to be limiting. All embodiments described herein may address all described limitations or have all described advantages. Some embodiments may not address any described limitations or have any of the described advantages.

Methods and systems are described for enriching nucleic acid samples. Example embodiments provide for rapidly and reproducibly enriching signal content in nucleic acid samples by reducing high abundance and repetitive nucleic acids. Example systems described herein provide an automated platform capable of carrying out microfluidic normalization based and capture based nucleic acid signal enrichment suitable for SGS. The platform is capable of performing denaturing and annealing of small nucleic acid samples followed by a physical separation step in a microfluidic hydroxyapatite or other affinity based chromatography device. In at least some embodiments the platform is flexible allowing either enrichment mode to be used alone or in tandem. Moreover the platform is multiplexed in some embodiments to enable multiple samples to be processed at a time eight samples in one embodiment to dramatically improve overall throughput. Although the initial focus is on SGS applications the systems and methods described herein are broadly applicable to a wide range of non sequencing applications that would benefit from reduction of high abundance or repetitive nucleic acids in a sample.

The various embodiments described herein provide microfluidic approaches for carrying out HAC normalization and capture based signal suppression of nucleic acid samples for sequencing applications. In at least some embodiments the systems are capable of performing two different modes of nucleic acid suppression HAC mediated normalization and nucleic acid capture using the same hardware. Additionally at least some of the embodiments of the system may be used to process a wide range of volumes and sample amounts. In some embodiments the system is multiplexed to allow for processing of up to eight samples in a single cycle. In alternative embodiments the system may be adapted to process less than eight samples or more than eight samples in a single cycle. Furthermore some embodiments of the system are automated to allow non experts to operate the system hardware.

By providing for HAC mediated normalization and affinity binding and capture carried out in a microfluidic device and by automating the HAC normalization process and the affinity binding and capture process various embodiments described herein provide a number of advantages over prior art systems and methods. For example embodiments described herein as compared to prior art systems generally use small volumes and small sample amounts reduce sample to sample contamination reduce non specific losses allow for flexibility of sample volumes and sizes micro to mesoscale enhance speed and reproducibility of the process and or reduce the amount of labor required to perform the process. Additionally at least some embodiments of the systems described herein allow the HAC normalization process and the affinity binding and capture process to be conducted using the same system hardware. For example both modes may be carried out on the same sample s sequentially according to some embodiments.

An additional advantage described more fully below is the ability to multiplex samples e.g. process as many as eight samples at a time in one embodiment more than eight in alternative embodiments . Additionally at least some embodiments of the systems described herein have relatively small footprints allowing the systems to be co located and ultimately interfaced with a library preparation device leading to a sequencer e.g. MiSeq .

In general in some embodiments the HAC methods and systems described below use convenient re packable microfluidic cartridges that are rapid reproducible and amenable to future automated sample preparation platforms. Small volume cartridges for example as small as 2.5 L but not limited to packed with commercially available HAC media allow nucleic acid fractionation to be carried out in a matter of minutes with sample sizes that are compatible with standard molecular biology protocols and kits.

The microfluidic HAC systems and methods described herein reduce or eliminate at least some of the drawbacks of prior art systems and methods and represent a viable alternative to DSN normalization. In tests one embodiment of the HAC based system described herein effectively and reproducibly separated ssDNA and dsDNA fractions from a complex nucleic acid population human PBMC cDNA enabling depletion of rRNA and concomitant enrichment of low abundance RNA species to degrees comparable to those achieved through DSN based normalization. The described HAC based systems and methods feature several advantages as mentioned above including greater flexibility in hybridization conditions that would otherwise damage or inhibit DSN enzymatic function addition of formamide and different hybridization temperatures for example . Moreover the described HAC methods are non destructive preserving the dsDNA fraction for further analysis if desired. This may be especially useful in the case of highly complex environmental samples the microbial composition of which is typically determined through comprehensive profiling of rRNA species.

As mentioned above another alternative approach for nucleic acid signal enrichment suppression is based on the selective capture of unwanted sequences. Commercially available kits enable capture based enrichment of libraries for the human exome. However these kits are not versatile they have very limited utility outside of human SNP detection. A newer technology developed by the assignee of the present application involves customizable capture of nucleic acids using biotinylated probes. This customizable capture method can be used in a variety of research fields and can easily be customized to study any organism. Customizable capture works on the principle of using biotinylated nucleic acids as probes for binding and collection of complementary nucleic acids for sequencing enrichment or removal from the library depletion . Collection is mediated through interaction between the biotin moiety of the probe and an avidin matrix. This technique works for the study of genomic DNA gDNA as well as both single stranded and double stranded complementary DNA cDNA as long as each end of the nucleic acid bears a tag that supports selective amplification following capture. The customizable capture method may be used in a microfluidic based system such as the various embodiments described below. In various embodiments this capture method may carried out in the same system hardware that is also used for HAC normalization.

As used herein the term sample refers to any suitable sample that may be separated into two or more parts using any of the embodiments of the systems described herein. The examples below generally describe enrichment of nucleic acid samples but these examples should in no way be interpreted as limiting the scope of the invention to a particular nucleic acid sample or type of sample.

Referring now to one embodiment of a nucleic acid enrichment system may include a first thermal enclosure which houses a portion of the system a second thermal enclosure which houses another portion of the system and a controller which is coupled to one or more components of the system and which is used to control operation of the system . In the controller is shown as connected to the thermal enclosures but this is merely pictured as such for simplicity of description. In actual embodiments of the system the controller may be attached electronically to one or more of the system components housed within the thermal enclosures rather than the enclosures themselves. In various embodiments the controller may be connected to system component s via wired connection wireless connection or a combination of both.

The embodiment of the system for enriching nucleic acid samples diagrammed in is an automated HAC microfluidic system that is not multiplexed. Because it is not multiplexed it is configured to process enrich one nucleic acid sample at a time and is thus a simpler system than some of the multiplexed embodiments described below. In various alternative embodiments the systems and methods described herein may be either automated but not multiplexed or automated and multiplexed.

In this embodiment the portion of the system enclosed in the first thermal enclosure includes a buffer pump a sample pump connected to the buffer pump via tubing a wash buffer container coupled with the sample pump a valve D tubing that connects valve D with a valve A a pressure transducer two elution buffer containers a valve B tubing connecting valve A with valve B a denaturing chamber tubing connecting valve B with the denaturing chamber an HAC cartridge tubing connecting valve A with the HAC cartridge and a temperature controller . The portion of the system contained in the second thermal enclosure includes a valve C tubing connecting the HAC cartridge with the valve C a conductivity detector disposed along the tubing a fraction collection container a waste container and tubing connecting valve C with the fraction container and the waste container . These components will be described in further detail below along with other components not listed here.

In the embodiment shown the portion of the system housed in the clear plastic thermal enclosure includes the temperature controller or heating unit or heater to allow the system to be operated at a wide range of close loop controlled temperatures. Depending on the needs of the analysis e.g. elevated temperature to minimize secondary structure formation in ssDNA a user can select a desired enclosure temperature. In one embodiment for example the temperature controller may be a commercially available 250 watt forced air heater assembly from Hammond Manufacturing. This heater uses resistance heating elements with a temperature limiter. In one embodiment to improve control and reduce temperature fluctuations the wiring of the stock cabinet heater assembly may be modified to separate the fan control from the heater control. A small control box not shown may be attached to the temperature controller to provide the 115 VAC interconnects as well as the logic level power supply needed by the temperature controller and display. In one embodiment to maintain a desired cabinet temperature the temperature controller may also include a separate microprocessor based temperature controller with a SSR output for example a Crydom MCTC2425KLA controller . The Crydom MCTC2425KLA controller uses a type K thermocouple to sense the temperature of the cabinet. A user controlled potentiometer on the front panel may be used to control the desired heater set point. This particular version of the Crydom MCTC2425KLA controller allows temperature control between 100 F and 400 F. To provide feedback to the operator an independent digital thermometer may be used to monitor the temperature of the first thermal enclosure .

In one embodiment the system may also include custom control software and a graphic user interface not shown which allow scripts to be written as needed to perform various steps in the process. A pressure transducer may be connected to the system to monitor operating pressures and a conductivity detector may be used to determine sample arrival and subsequent actuation of a valve to begin fraction collection.

In various embodiments of the system microfluidic cartridges leak proof 1 microliter to milliliter cartridges for bioanalysis may be used in sizes ranging from about 2 microliters to about 30 microliters. The cartridges may be capped and sealed at each end with a nut threaded to connect to CapTite fittings to facilitate fluid connections. A wide range of internal column volumes and dimensions e.g. ratio of column diameter to length may be used for example in the range of about 1 microliter to about 30 microliters all with a ratio of column length to diameter of approximately 10. The wide range of microfluidic cartridge volumes ensures that the system is not limited to small volumes. Samples from the low microliter range all the way up to hundreds of microliters can be processed simply by selecting the microfluidic device volume and syringe pump barrel volume.

In one experimental embodiment the column packing material was BioGel HTP DNA grade media hydrated with 10 mM sodium phosphate pH 7.0 0.005 w v SDS Buffer A or similar buffer and de fined according to manufacturer s guidelines prior to use. The microfluidic cartridges were slurry packed under house vacuum and the gel was retained in the column body with 35 m pore size PEEK mesh. Two commercial PSD syringe pumps Hamilton Reno Nev. were used to control fluid flows through the system . Two sizes were used 2.5 mL and 125 L. The smaller sample pump was used to flush elution and wash buffers through the microfluidic cartridge while the larger buffer pump was useful for all other routing of fluids in the system. A custom 8 port multiport valve was used for directing the fluid flow. The fluidic system used a multiport valve and holding coil approach which allowed the fluids to be precisely routed to a variety of places in the system with a minimum of pumps and other hardware.

For ease of description and understanding the embodiment of the nucleic acid enrichment system illustrated diagrammatically in will now be described in terms of a DNA normalization method that may be carried out using the system . In general any nucleic acid normalization process is composed of three main components 1 denaturing a nucleic acid NA sample into single stranded form 2 partially rehybridizing or reannealing the sample producing a mixed population of single stranded and double stranded nucleic acids and 3 separating single stranded and double stranded nucleic acids. Unlike currently available nucleic acid enrichment systems and methods in the embodiments described in this application the third separation step is performed using hydroxyapatite chromatography in a microfluidic device.

In one embodiment a method for using the system may first involve initializing the stepper motor driven syringe pumps followed by rinsing and or priming of various fluid lines of the system . The microfluidic device may then be flushed for example sequentially flushing with 20 column volumes each of 100 mM sodium phosphate pH 7.0 0.005 w v SDS Buffer B 320 mM sodium phosphate pH 7.0 0.005 w v SDS Buffer C and then Buffer A again.

After flushing the system the normalization nucleic acid enrichment method can be started by loading a sample into the denaturing chamber . The sample may be contained in a PCR polymerase chain reaction tube for example which may also be referred to herein as a sample vial or sample container. The sample container may be loaded into the chamber and the open end of the tubing may be advanced into the sample container as illustrated schematically in . The method may next involve denaturing the sample by raising the temperature in the chamber to at least approximately 95 Celsius for several minutes. The sample is then partially rehybridized or reannealed by lowering the temperature in the chamber to an appropriate level for rehybridization and maintaining that temperature for a sufficient period of time to allow a desired mixture of ssDNA and dsDNA to form typically about 1 5 hours. In some embodiments the denaturing chamber may be a heater referred to herein as a cathedral heater which will be described in greater detail below. One of the features of some embodiments of the cathedral heater is a heated lid that minimizes evaporative loss in the sample vial. During this time the most abundant NA sequences find their complement strands the most rapidly and make up the majority of the double stranded NAs.

After a suitable period of time dictated by the sample being processed and the specific normalization goals the sample is diluted with buffer to essentially stop further hybridization. This step is performed by switching valve B to inline the dot adjacent the tubing and valve A to position . Valve A in this embodiment is a multi position valve having eight positions . The buffer pump is then activated e.g. the plunger depressed to advance buffer through the tubing valve A tubing valve B and tubing into the sample vial. In the embodiments herein buffer will typically be phosphate buffer and different types of buffer for example elution buffer and wash buffer refer to different concentrations of phosphate buffer. In alternative embodiments other buffers may be used.

In some embodiments the buffer pump and the sample pump may be syringes or other syringe like pumps connected in series by tube and having two different volumes larger buffer pump and smaller sample pump . The system does not require two pumps however and alternative embodiments may include only one pump. Two pumps are included in the embodiments described herein so that different volumes of buffer and sample can be moved through the system with a greater level of control than might be possible using just one pump. Two pumps of different volumes allow for flexibility in flow rates which provides flexibility in the possible sample sizes that can be processed. In other alternative embodiments more than two pumps may be used if it would be desirable to have additional volume choices. Additionally according to various alternative embodiments any suitable type or multiple types of pump may be used. Any suitable mechanism for pumping fluid through the system may be used in various embodiments such as but not limited to positive displacement pumps velocity pumps impulse pumps gravity pumps and valveless pumps. Although syringe pumps are shown in the various figures herein these pumps are shown for exemplary purposes only and should not be interpreted to limit the system to any particular type or size of pump.

The next step in the nucleic acid normalization process involves applying the diluted sample to the hydroxyapatite chromatography HAC microfluidic device . Although illustrates the example of a microfluidic HAC cartridge this is simply one example of a HAC microfluidic device and is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosed embodiments. Instead any suitable configuration of HAC microfluidic device may be included in the system according to various embodiments. With valve A still in position the sample pump may be activated e.g. pulled back to draw the sample fully into the tubing between valve A and the pumps a large volume length of tubing also called the holding coil. Valve A may then be switched to position and the sample pump may again be used e.g. the plunger depressed to advance the sample out of the holding coil through tubing and into the HAC microfluidic device . The microfluidic device includes an inlet and an outlet .

In this embodiment the process next includes filling the sample pump with fresh buffer from the wash buffer container . This is accomplished by first switching valve D to open toward the wash buffer container and drawing back the plunger of the sample pump to draw fresh buffer into the sample pump . Next the direction of valve D is switched to face toward tubing and the plunger of the sample pump is depressed to dispense buffer through the HAC microfluidic device to drive the sample through the HAC microfluidic device and to flush out any non specifically bound sample.

The next step in the process is to elute the single stranded NAs from the sample. This is achieved by switching valve A to position and drawing elution buffer from the first elution buffer container into the holding coil using the sample pump . Valve A is then switched to position and the single strand elution buffer is flushed through the HAC microfluidic device by depressing the plunger of the sample pump . The conductivity detector monitors the output from the outlet of the HAC microfluidic device and indicates when the elution buffer has reached the outlet . At that time the system switches valve C from waste to a waiting vial for collection. The sample passes through the tubing past the conductivity detector through valve C through tubing and into the sample collection container . Double strand elution can then proceed if desired by following the same procedure as the single strand elution except the elution buffer will be drawn from the second elution buffer container position on valve A instead of position . In some embodiments double stranded NA may be directed into the waste container while in alternative embodiments the double stranded NA may be directed into a second sample collection container . In one embodiment the sample is flushed through the microfluidic device with Buffer A ssDNA is eluted using Buffer B and dsDNA is eluted using Buffer C.

The conductivity detector in one embodiment a contactless conductivity sensor eDAQ may be used as an indicator of sample arrival. The fraction collection valve C may be controlled using information regarding sample arrival from the conductivity detector to switch the fluid output between waste and fraction collection positions.

In the embodiment shown valve A may include additional positions not described above. For example position may open to an additional sample container position may open to a waste container and position may open to a vent . In various alternative embodiments valve A may have additional or fewer positions. Valve B valve C and valve D are each 2 position 3 port valves. In other words each of those three valves is moveable between two positions and has three ports. Valve B for example has a port facing the tubing another port facing the tubing and a third port that is a vent . Valve C has a port facing the tubing a port facing tubing and a third port facing tubing . Valve D has a port facing the wash buffer container a port facing the sample pump and a port facing the tubing . In various alternative embodiments additional valves may be included for various purposes and at various locations in the system as needed.

In the embodiment shown the system also includes a pressure transducer coupled with the tubing . The pressure transducer measures pressure in the tubing so that a user may monitor pressures in the system and prevent over pressurizing the system . In alternative embodiments the pressure transducer may be attached to some other part of the system . Typically the pressure transducer will be located somewhere in the system so that it is in fluid communication with the pumps or single pump in alternative embodiments .

The majority of the method described above is typically carried out in the first thermal enclosure at an elevated temperature of approximately 50 degrees Celsius. The elevated temperature is maintained by the temperature control unit or heater inside the first thermal enclosure . The controlled temperature helps ensure that secondary structure in the single stranded NAs folding on themselves to form double stranded sections is minimized and the single stranded NAs properly elute in the appropriate fraction. As illustrated in the tubing extends from the first thermal enclosure into the second thermal enclosure . The second thermal enclosure is separate from the first enclosure because the temperature of the second enclosure is typically held at a lower chilled temperature to help preserve the samples. Both enclosures when taken together may have a relatively small total footprint such that the entire system may fit on a wheeled cart or small table for easy portability.

The controller may include a specialized electronic control unit or box a laptop or desktop computer multiple electronic control units or any combination thereof. The controller may be coupled with any combination of components of the system such as but not limited to the temperature control unit the pumps the conductivity detector the valves A B C and D and the sample collection container . The controller generally allows for at least part of the method described above to be automated. For example in one embodiment a user may manually load a sample into the denaturing chamber and all other steps of the described method may be performed automatically controlled at least in part by the controller .

In various alternative embodiments the single sample system described above may be adapted to allow multiple samples to be processed in parallel by an automated system thereby dramatically increasing the utility of the platform. These multiple sample systems several embodiments of which are described below are referred to herein as multiplexed systems.

Referring now to in an alternative embodiment a system for enhancing nucleic acid samples may be automated and multiplexed. Multiplexing allows multiple samples typically but not necessarily nucleic acid samples to be processed at the same time within the system . Again different portions of the system may be enclosed a first thermal enclosure and a second thermal enclosure and the system includes a controller which is coupled with various components of the system illustrated schematically by two connecting lines in . Many components of the system of are the same or analogous to components described in reference to the embodiment in and those components will not be described again in detail.

In this embodiment the portion of the system enclosed in the first thermal enclosure includes a buffer pump a sample pump connected to the buffer pump via tubing a wash buffer container coupled with the sample pump a system valve tubing that connects the system valve with a distribution valve a pressure transducer two elution buffer containers a sample valve tubing connecting the distribution valve with the sample valve two cathedral heater denaturing chambers and and tubing connecting the sample valve with the denaturing chambers and . The first thermal enclosure also encloses a multiplexed microfluidic HAC bus an inlet valve for the bus an outlet valve for the bus tubing connecting the distribution valve with the inlet valve a portion of the tubing connecting the outlet valve with a sample fraction collector and a temperature controller . The portion of the system contained in the second thermal enclosure includes a portion of the tubing a conductivity detector and the sample fraction collector .

The multiplexed system and its associated method of use are analogous to the system and method described in reference to but include a number of different and additional features to allow for multiplexed nucleic acid sample processing. In this embodiment the system allows for the processing of eight samples at the same time. The two cathedral heaters denaturing chambers and each allow for denaturing and rehybridizing of four samples at once. Tubing connects each of eight sample reservoirs in the cathedral heaters with the sample valve . Each sample may then be passed individually through tubing and and the distribution valve and inlet valve into the microfluidic bus . The microfluidic bus includes eight HAC microfluidic columns for further processing eluting the NA samples individually after which the samples pass through the outlet valve and onto the fraction sample collection reservoir . In one embodiment the fraction collection reservoir may include 32 reservoir positions for collecting two samples and two waste deposits from each of the eight columns of the microfluidic bus . The term column is used herein to refer to a portion of a microfluidic device through which a sample is processed typically though not necessarily a HAC column portion of a microfluidic device. Column should not be interpreted herein as being limited only to one capillary of a microfluidic device.

The method for using this embodiment of the system is largely the same as that described above except for the significant and advantageous difference that eight samples can be processed at once. The overall process may begin by denaturing four samples simultaneously in the first cathedral heater after which the temperature is dropped to the annealing temperature and maintained for the requisite amount of time e.g. approximately 5 hours . After a time delay e.g. approximately 1 hour the second cathedral heater is used to denatured and anneal the second set of four samples. Once the first annealing time period is completed the four samples are diluted e.g. 1 to 5 with buffer A to essentially stop further annealing and the samples are sequentially flushed through individual HAC columns of the microfluidic bus and the ssDNA and dsDNA fractions are collected in the fraction collector . By the time the last of the first four samples has been flushed through the columns and eluted the second cathedral heater will be ready to be diluted prior to performing HAC. The staggered start times allow for the chromatography to be completed on the first four samples by the time the second ones are ready. The dilution of the four samples in each cathedral prior to HAC ensures that the four samples experience essentially the same amount of annealing time since the dilution step effectively drops the rate of annealing 25 fold. The few minutes time difference at 25 fold reduced rate will be insignificant compared to the total annealing time. This overall approach enables the denaturing and annealing of up to eight samples without requiring eight separate heaters.

In this embodiment the sample valve inlet valve and outlet valve are all multi port multi position valves configured to selectively address each sample and apply it to its own individual microfluidic column or tube with at least nine ports on each valve to accommodate one tube for each sample and one system tube leading into or out of the valve. The microfluidic bus replaces the HAC cartridge of the previously described embodiment and includes eight microfluidic columns in this embodiment. Alternative embodiments may include fewer or more microfluidic columns. The inlet valve and outlet valve are included in this embodiment to specifically direct each sample into one of the microfluidic columns in the bus . The fraction collector or sample collector is configured to manage the larger number of collected fractions. For example in one embodiment the fraction collector may be a reservoir rotating carousel configured to collect two fractions and two waste fractions from each of the eight samples. One embodiment of the cathedral heaters the microfluidic bus and the fraction collector are described in more detail below.

The method may be performed such that each of the eight samples is moved through the system in the same way as described above for the single sample system. However the eight samples may be moved serially through the system into the microfluidic bus and then passed individually and serially from the bus through the rest of the system to the fraction collector . In some portions of the system each sample has its own dedicated tubing tubing for example . In other portions of the system the samples share a common tube and thus must travel through the tube sequentially tubing and for example . As described previously some or all of the nucleic acid enrichment method may be conducted automatically controlled at least in part by the system controller . The combined automation and multiplexing of the nucleic acid enrichment process may greatly reduce the labor and time required to process NAs and may also make results more reproducible. For example once the system is set up with samples located in the cathedral heaters it may be possible to perform the processing method with little or no human intervention thus greatly reducing the labor required compared with currently available methods.

Referring now to in another alternative embodiment an automated multiplexed nucleic acid processing system includes a controller and may have a number of the features described for the previous system with several additional features configured to keep the samples in separate dedicated tubing throughout the procedure. In this embodiment the portion of the system enclosed in the first thermal enclosure includes a buffer pump a sample pump connected to the buffer pump via tubing a wash buffer container coupled with the sample pump a system valve tubing that connects the system valve with a first distribution valve a pressure transducer two elution buffer containers and a wash solution container . One added feature of this embodiment of the system is a second distribution valve coupled with the first distribution valve via tubing . The second distribution valve is coupled with eight sample valves via eight tubes . Each sample valve is configured to direct sample from one of two cathedral heaters through eight separate tubes into eight additional separate tubes and thus into the microfluidic HAC bus . After processing through the bus each sample passes through another separate dedicated tube past an 8 head conductivity detector into a fraction collector . Again the fraction collector may in some embodiments have thirty two reservoirs four per sample. As with previously described embodiments the first thermal container may also contain a temperature controller or heater .

The portion of the system contained in the second thermal enclosure includes a portion of the tubing the conductivity detector and the sample fraction collector . As mentioned above the second thermal enclosure will generally be kept at a lower temperature than that of the first thermal enclosure in order to help preserve the collected fractions.

The method of using this embodiment of the system will typically be very similar to that described previously except that the system is multiplexed for processing of up to eight samples at once. In this system each sample will be held separately in separating tubing during more of the process than in previously described embodiments. This separation of samples will likely help prevent sample contamination. Additional features of the system in this embodiment as compared to the multiplexed embodiment of the system described above include the second distribution valve multiple tubes multiple sample valves and the 8 headed conductivity detector . The conductivity detector is configured to be in fluid communication with each of the eight tubes so that it can detect conductivity of each sample after it exits the microfluidic bus .

Referring now to in another alternative embodiment an automated multiplexed nucleic acid processing system includes a controller and may have a combination of some of the features of the previously described systems and . In this embodiment the portion of the system enclosed in the first thermal enclosure includes a buffer pump a sample pump connected to the buffer pump via tubing a wash buffer container coupled with the sample pump a system valve tubing that connects the system valve with a first distribution valve a pressure transducer two elution buffer containers and a wash solution container . The system also includes a second distribution valve coupled with the first distribution valve via tubing and also coupled with eight sample valves via eight tubes . Each sample valve is configured to direct sample from one of two cathedral heaters through eight separate tubes into eight additional separate tubes and thus into the microfluidic HAC bus . After processing through the microfluidic bus each sample passes through another separate dedicated tube and then through an outlet valve and a collection valve . The collection valve is used to separate samples which continue into a tube and passes into a waste container . The tube travels past a conductivity detector to a fraction collector . As with previously described embodiments the first thermal container may also contain a temperature controller or heater .

The portion of the system contained in the second thermal enclosure includes a portion of the tubing the conductivity detector and the sample fraction collector . It may also include the waste container in some embodiments. As mentioned above the second thermal enclosure will generally be kept at a lower temperature than that of the first thermal enclosure in order to help preserve the collected fractions.

Again the method of using this embodiment of the system is a multiplexed method. Much of the separate tubing described with reference to system is included. However one common tube is used after processing in the HAC microfluidic bus . This common tube allows a 1 head conductivity detector to be used rather than the 8 head conductivity detector described with reference to system . This allows for at least a simpler conductivity detector.

Referring now to one embodiment of the cathedral heater will be described in further detail. As mentioned previously in one embodiment the cathedral heater is configured to hold four starting samples of nucleic acid and to denature and rehybridize those samples by increasing and then reducing their temperature. The cathedral heaters are referred to as such due to their shape in the embodiment illustrated. They may also be referred to as annealing chambers denaturing chambers heaters or any other suitable terminology. In alternative embodiments the cathedral heaters may have a different overall configuration. As described above in some embodiments a nucleic acid denaturing system may include two cathedral heaters which work in tandem to allow simultaneous processing of eight samples. In alternative embodiments heaters may be configured to denature and reanneal fewer than four samples or more than four samples and systems may include any number of heaters.

In one embodiment the cathedral heater is made primarily of a machined aluminum block positioned on top of a cooling fan . For example in one embodiment the aluminum block is a 6061 T6 aluminum block. The block may be machined to include multiple integral cooling fins to decrease the cooling time when an integral heater is shut off and the attached cooling fan is energized. The block may also include an integrated thermal cover or heated lid microfluidic tubing a thermal isolation spacer and four reservoirs . Elastic straps may be used to attach the thermal cover to the base of the reservoir block and the cooling fan may be attached to the bottom of the block . As illustrated in the cathedral heater may also include a thermal sensor and three cartridge heaters implanted within the block . Each of the microfluidic tubes is configured to allow placement of a PCR tube within it such that one end of the PCR tube will reside within one of the reservoirs . The samples are placed in the reservoirs . After denaturing and reannealing the samples are drawn out of the reservoirs via the tubing to enter the rest of the system for HAC microfluidic processing.

In one embodiment the profile geometry of the cathedral heater may be configured to optimize thermal contact with the reservoirs and samples in PCR tubes placed in those reservoirs. For example the block of aluminum may be machined to accommodate a 0.125 inch diameter 0.750 long block or cartridge heater for example Sunelectric H075 30 24 01 to provide heating and a resistive thermal device for example Minco S13282PE3T36 to monitor temperature. A programmable temperature control unit for example Omega CNI3243 may be used to complete the close loop thermal control. Additionally the aluminum block may be machined to include cooling fins and may be positioned over a small high flow fan to assist in rapid cooling from the denaturing temperature to the annealing temperature. The thermal cover is a separate piece relative to the block and may be attached to the block via the elastic straps or via other attachment means in alternative embodiments . The thermal cover may be heated separately from the block in order to heat the lids of the sample vials at a slightly higher set temperature than the rest of the cathedral heater annealing chamber to reduce sample evaporation. To remove the reservoirs from the block the thermal cover is simply removed so that the reservoirs may be taken out and replaced.

Referring now to in some embodiments a nucleic acid processing system may include a HAC microfluidic bus as mentioned above. In the embodiment shown the microfluidic bus is configured for processing eight samples. In alternative embodiments the bus may be configured to process any other number of samples fewer than or greater than eight. The microfluidic bus may include a cartridge body a filter plug plate a ferrule plate a locking nut and eight HAC columns or capture columns . The filter plug plate the ferrule plate and the locking nut work together to form a seal around each of the columns . As illustrated in in some embodiments the microfluidic bus may be attached to another component of a nucleic acid enrichment system via an attachment bracket . As illustrated in in one embodiment an extraction nut may be used to remove the filter plug plate which has a threaded region from the microfluidic bus thus allowing the columns to be repacked.

The microfluidic bus may allow a variety of internal column volumes to be accommodated based on predetermined diameter through holes machined in the cartridge body . With the use of a custom in house developed adaptor all eight columns can be packed simultaneously under vacuum and the entire microfluidic bus can be sealed to 1 32 inch tubes. The design allows for all eight connections to swage to the inlet and outlet tubing simultaneously when the ferrule plate is tightened using the locking nut .

The columns perform much the same as the individual column counterparts but are individually addressed via an eight port multivalve or alternatively eight separate tubes leading into and out of the HAC microfluidic bus . Through the scripting it is possible to selectively flush each column and it is possible to send each sample to a different column . All columns can be flushed during the annealing time in preparation for receiving samples. As with the single column design the columns are typically flushed prior to use. Columns can be reused for future samples after flushing or can be repacked.

With reference to in an alternative embodiment a HAC microfluidic bus may include an optional individual ferrule attachment including a locking nut a standard ferrule and a threaded plate . In this embodiment the locking nut the standard ferrule and the threaded plate work together to form the seal around the columns .

Referring now to in one embodiment the second thermal enclosure of the nucleic acid processing system may house the fraction collector or sample collector and the conductivity detector . The second thermal enclosure is configured to allow samples to be collected and maintained in the fraction collector in a chilled environment to help preserve the collected fractions. In one embodiment the fraction collector may be a cylindrical carousel with multiple containers for containing fractions and optionally waste. In one embodiment for example the fraction collector may place a waste vial between each fraction container . In some embodiments no valves need to be actuated for fraction and waste collection. Instead a stepper motor simply moves to the next position. This design minimizes contamination between collected fractions since the same sample line is effectively cleared each with each sample. The second thermal enclosure and cooled interior help preserve sample limit evaporation and prevent dust or other contamination from fouling the collection vials.

Referring now to the overall performance of the automated single sample system was demonstrated in the HAC normalization mode with a dsDNA by size ladder Invitrogen . Replicate samples first went through an annealing step without any denaturing followed by HAC separation in the automated system . As illustrated in without the denaturing step almost all the sample remained dsDNA fraction with almost no ssDNA fraction . In other words the DNA was exclusively found in the dsDNA fraction as expected for a fully dsDNA containing sample. Next replicate samples in the annealing chamber were exposed to a denaturing step followed by a brief annealing step and sent to the HAC microfluidic device for separation of ssDNA and dsDNA. Some of the DNA was single stranded and some was double stranded prior to hydroxyapatite chromatography. This is illustrated in the right hand portion of . illustrates reproducibility of replicate N 5 samples of ssDNA with a single stranded fraction and essentially no double stranded fraction . The units in both are arbitrary relative fluorescence units.

Referring to another experiment which demonstrated performance of microfluidic HAC normalization on sequencing of a human PBMC cell sample compared to a control sample without normalization. The longest band on the control bar over 80 reflects the percentages of sequences that were from ribosomal RNA uninformative high abundance before HAC normalization. The rRNA fraction on the HAC normalization bar e.g. the fractions after HAC normalization was performed on the sample is less than 5 of the total. This experiment validated the ability of HAC normalization to greatly reduce rRNA in a nucleic acid sample.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention.

