---

title: Multi-service provider wireless access point
abstract: Novel tools and techniques that can provide wireless service for multiple service providers from a single, multi-service provider wireless access point. In an aspect, a multi-service provider wireless access point might communicate with a plurality of wireless devices, each associated with a different wireless carrier, and route communications from each device to the appropriate carrier (and/or, similarly, transmit communications from each carrier to the appropriate wireless device). In this way, for example, a single wireless access point could provide service to cellphones of subscribers of a number of different carriers. Such a wireless access point can provide enhanced efficiency and reduced cost, along with the ability to provide higher service for a number of wireless carriers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392641&OS=09392641&RS=09392641
owner: CenturyLink Intellectual Property LLC
number: 09392641
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 541 839 filed Jul. 5 2012 by Charles Ivan Cook and entitled Multi Service Provider Wireless Access Point the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure relates in general to wireless service provider networks and more particularly to tools and techniques that enable a single base station to serve subscribers of multiple service providers.

Wireless service providers employ access points also known in the art as base stations to provide wireless service to wireless subscriber devices such as cell phones wireless PDAs wireless tablet computers wireless modems and the like . The location of such access points is often constrained by geographic features local regulation and or cost. To address some of these issues multiple wireless service providers will often collocate base stations resulting in a single location such as a tower building spire etc. having multiple antennas radios and other base station hardware.

This solution is inefficient because it results in a large degree of hardware redundancy but it is often unavoidable for several reasons. For instance most wireless providers are allocated a discrete frequency band for their exclusive use and a given wireless provider will employ base station hardware tuned specifically for that provider s allocated spectrum. Additionally each provider s base station maintains exclusive connectivity with that provider s network. Thus while the concept of a shared access point that can serve multiple wireless providers could provide enhanced efficiencies both in terms of cost and utilization of limited space in prime locations the realization of that concept is constrained by significant technical hurdles.

One such hurdle is the disparities in radio frequency RF communications employed by different wireless providers to provide communication between the access point and the subscribers wireless devices. These disparities include different transmission frequency bands different modulation schemes and the like. Another hurdle is the distribution of traffic between a shared access point and the networks of different wireless providers. Using conventional techniques there is no way to distinguish the traffic of one wireless provider from another. These issues and others stand in the way of effective implementation of shared wireless access points.

Hence there is a need for solutions that can overcome technical hurdles to allow the provision of shared wireless access points.

A set of embodiments offers solutions that can provide wireless service for multiple service providers from a single multi service provider wireless access point. In an aspect a multi service provider wireless access point might communicate with a plurality of wireless devices each associated with a different wireless carrier and route communications from each device to the appropriate carrier and or similarly transmit communications from each carrier to the appropriate wireless device . In this way for example a single wireless access point could provide service to cellphones of subscribers of a number of different carriers. Such a wireless access point can provide enhanced efficiency and reduced cost along with the ability to provide higher service for a number of wireless carriers.

Various embodiments provide features to enable and enhance such functionality. Merely by way of example some embodiments feature dedicated communication links between the multi service provider wireless access point and each of the providers served by the access point. Other embodiments can provide dedicated management platforms to enable each provider to manage that provider s wireless service through the access point. Still other embodiments can provide statistics tracking and billing features to enhance the provision of service for multiple providers through a single access point.

The tools provided by various embodiments include without limitation methods systems and or software products. Merely by way of example a method might comprise one or more procedures any or all of which are executed by a computer system. Correspondingly an embodiment might provide a computer system configured with instructions to perform one or more procedures in accordance with methods provided by various other embodiments. Similarly a computer program might comprise a set of instructions that are executable by a computer system and or a processor therein to perform such operations. In many cases such software programs are encoded on physical tangible and or non transitory computer readable media such as to name but a few examples optical media magnetic media and or the like .

Merely by way of example a method of providing wireless service for multiple service providers from a single access point in accordance with one set of embodiments might comprise providing a multi service provider wireless access point. The access point in one aspect might having one or more radios to communicate with wireless devices and an uplink connection to a plurality of wireless service providers. The method might further comprise receiving at the multi service provider wireless access point a communication from a wireless device.

In some embodiments the method further comprises collecting e.g. at the multi service provider wireless access point an identifier of the wireless device from the communication and or identifying from the identifier of the wireless device a wireless service provider serving the wireless device. The method might further comprise receiving at the multi service provider wireless access point one or more subsequent communications from the wireless device and or routing from the multi service provider wireless access point the one or more subsequent communications to the identified wireless service provider over the uplink connection.

A method in accordance with other embodiments might comprise providing a multi service provider wireless access point which might have one or more radios to communicate with wireless devices and or an uplink interface to provide an uplink connection to a plurality of wireless service providers. The method might further comprise establishing for each of the plurality of service providers a dedicated management platform for each service provider to manage wireless service provided by that service provider. In some embodiments the method further comprises providing a plurality of dedicated communication links each of which might providing secure communication between the uplink interface and one of the wireless service providers. In further embodiments the method could comprise receiving at the multi service provider wireless access point a communication from a wireless device served by a first wireless service provider and or transmitting the communication to the first wireless service provider over a first dedicated communication link associated with the first service provider. Merely by way of example the method described above might be employed to determined how to transmit the communication to the first wireless service provider.

A multi service provider wireless access point in accordance with another set of embodiments might comprise one or more radios to communicate with wireless devices and an uplink connection to a plurality of wireless service providers. The access point might further comprise one or more processors. In one aspect there might be a plurality of processors including one or more processors dedicated to each wireless provider to provide each provider with a discrete processing system to provide wireless service for each respective service provider s subscribers. In another aspect the one or more processors might be configured to support a plurality of virtual machines with one or more virtual machines dedicated to each wireless service provider to provide each wireless service provider with a discrete processing system to provide wireless service for each respective service provider s subscribers.

In some cases the wireless access point might further comprise a non transitory machine readable medium having encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by the processor to perform one or more operations including without limitation instructions to perform operations in accordance with methods provided by various embodiments.

Merely by way of example in one embodiment the set of instructions might comprise instructions to receive a communication from a wireless device and instructions to obtain from the communication an identifier of the wireless device. The set of instructions might further include instructions to identify from the identifier of the wireless device a wireless service provider serving the wireless device. In some cases the set of instructions might comprise instructions to receive one or more subsequent communications from the wireless device and or instructions to route the one or more subsequent communications to the identified wireless service provider over the uplink connection. Alternatively and or additionally the set of instructions might comprise instructions to establish for each of the plurality of service providers a dedicated management console for each service provider to manage wireless service provided by that service provider instructions to receive a communication from a wireless device assigned to a subscriber of a first wireless service provider and or instructions to transmit the communication to the first wireless service provider over a first dedicated communication link associated with the first service provider.

While various aspects and features of certain embodiments have been summarized above the following detailed description illustrates a few exemplary embodiments in further detail to enable one of skill in the art to practice such embodiments. The described examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described embodiments. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that other embodiments of the present may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances certain structures and devices are shown in block diagram form. Several embodiments are described herein and while various features are ascribed to different embodiments it should be appreciated that the features described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated with other embodiments as well. By the same token however no single feature or features of any described embodiment should be considered essential to every embodiment of the invention as other embodiments of the invention may omit such features.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers used herein to express quantities dimensions and so forth used should be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. In this application the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated otherwise and use of the terms and and or means and or unless otherwise indicated. Moreover the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included should be considered non exclusive. Also terms such as element or component encompass both elements and components comprising one unit and elements and components that comprise more than one unit unless specifically stated otherwise.

A set of embodiments offers solutions that can provide wireless service for multiple service providers from a single multi service provider wireless access point. Thus instead of requiring multiple access points collocated at the same location or located near one another certain embodiments can allow for the installation of a single access point with substantial efficiencies in cost space and aesthetics while still serving subscribers of multiple service providers. Some embodiments can support different wireless access technologies code division multiple access CDMA Global System for Mobile communications GSM Long Term Evolution LTE etc. and or different frequency bands e.g. 700 MHz 1800 MHz etc. employed by different carriers using one or more radios in the access point. Some embodiments can support technologies such as WiFi developed for and or deployed in unlicensed spectrum other embodiments might employ cognitive radio technologies designed to share spectrum such as TV White Space spectrum. Various embodiments can include dedicated hardware components and or virtual software defined components.

In another aspect a multi service provider wireless access point might communicate with a plurality of wireless devices each associated with a different wireless carrier. The access point might feature an uplink connection that provides connectivity with each of the wireless service providers and the access point might route communications from each device over the uplink connection to the appropriate provider and or similarly transmit communications from each provider to the appropriate wireless device .

Some aspects of different embodiments provide various features to enable and enhance such functionality. Merely by way of example some embodiments feature dedicated communication links between the multi service provider wireless access point and each of the providers served by the access point. These secure links e.g. virtual private network VPN links can allow for secure transmission of wireless traffic to and from the wireless provider s core network or an edge router thereof to be more precise as well as provide the wireless provider with secure access for management purposes. Each provider s link capacity may be fixed dynamic or a combination thereof.

Correspondingly some embodiments can provide dedicated management platforms to enable each provider to manage that provider s wireless service through the access point. In an aspect the dedicated wireless link for a particular provider can provide access to that provider s management platform. Such management platforms can provide each wireless provider with an interface to configure various parameters related to the wireless service offered by that provider through the access point such as radio control implementation of various wireless standards and or versions thereof such as 3GPP LTE Release 9 LTE Release 10 etc. and the like. In another aspect the management platforms can allow providers to implement radio coordination schemes for example so that the multi provider wireless access point can integrate with each provider s wireless network and the other base stations access points implemented by each particular provider in such networks .

Still other embodiments can provide statistics tracking and billing features to enhance the provision of service for multiple providers through a single access point. Merely by way of example in some embodiments the access point can be configured to compile a variety of performance statistics and categorize those statistics by provider. The statistics relevant to each provider can then be made available to that provider e.g. though the management platform via transmission over the respective dedicated link etc. . In some cases these statistics can be used for pricing the cost of the service to the provider e.g. on a usage basis . In a particular set of embodiments the access point might be configured to collect statistics even for providers who currently do not use the access point to provide wireless service e.g. by tracking registration requests or other communications from devices that subscribe to that provider such statistics can be provided to the non participating provider as a tool to encourage the provider to offer service through the access point e.g. by illustrating to the provider how many subscribers could be served better by the access point than by the provider s existing network .

An uplink interface in communication with the processor provides an uplink connection with the plurality of wireless service providers providing connectivity between the multi service provider wireless access point and the providers and ultimately between the wireless device and one of the providers through the multi service provider wireless access point . The uplink interface as can be appreciated generally will be specific to the type of uplink connection and the interface can include whatever hardware and or software are necessary or appropriate to support the uplink connection such as an appropriate port communication chipset etc. A variety of different uplink connections are possible in accordance with different embodiments. For instance in some cases the uplink connection can comprise an Ethernet connection and or the like. Additionally and or alternatively the uplink connection might comprise an optical connection such as a passive optical network PON circuit a synchronous optical network SONET ring and or the like. Any type of digital access technology including without limitation digital subscriber line DSL Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS etc. can be used to provide the uplink connection provided the digital access technology has sufficient performance functionality to support the traffic passing through the access point .

The uplink connection in an aspect might provide connectivity between the multi service provider wireless access point and a telecommunication provider s core network which in turn provides connectivity to each of the wireless service providers e.g. through peering relationships the Internet etc. . The telecommunication provider might be but need not necessarily be one of the wireless service providers . Alternatively and or additionally if a wireless service provider has a relationship with a wireline service provider operating the access point it is possible that the wireless service provider could have the access point direct the connection to the wireline or other service provider to perform call processing on behalf of the wireless service provider that actually serves the subscriber. Similarly if one wireless service provider has a relationship with a second wireless service provider such that the second service provider has access to necessary authentication information the second service provider could assume the responsibility of call processing of the original service provider in the case of an emergency by securely informing the multiservice access point via an update to a provider identification database described below to route the calls to the second service provider . Alternatively and or additionally a single service provider could use a similar database update technique to route calls from the access point to an alternate mobile switching center MSC for load balancing or other reasons.

The multi service provider wireless access point might also include a computer readable storage medium such as a hard drive solid state memory firmware etc. This medium can store instructions for programming the processor to cause the multi service provider wireless access point to operate as described herein. The medium might also have stored thereon one or more databases or other data stores as described in further detail below. Such databases data stores can also be located in other locations so long as they are accessible e.g. via the uplink connection to the multi service provider wireless access point .

Various embodiments can support a number of different processing architectures and a number of different radio and antenna arrangements. Merely by way of example illustrates a multi service provider wireless access point with a single processor a single radio and a single antenna . In other embodiments as illustrated by a multi service provider wireless access point might comprise a single radio in communication with a plurality of antennas. In further embodiments as illustrated by . a multi service provider wireless access point might comprise a plurality of radios each of which is in communication with one or more of a plurality of antennas . In an aspect the use of multiple antennas can enable efficient transmission and reception over a wide range of radio spectrum. In certain embodiments for example the processor is programmed to manage which antenna or antennas is used at any given instant of time either directly or through a switching mechanism.

These different arrangements as illustrated in non limiting fashion by can support a number of different configurations that allow the multi service provider wireless access point to provide wireless service to subscribers of multiple providers . Merely by way of example in the embodiment illustrated by each radio might transmit receive on a frequency band that is allocated to one or more providers . For instance one radio might transmit and receive on the 700 800 MHz band which is allocated e.g. by the FCC to and or used by a first provider . Another radio might transmit and receive on the 1800 1900 MHz band which might be allocated to and or used by Provider B and Provider C . In other embodiments different radios might support different modulation and or access technologies for example one radio might communicate using CDMA while another radio might communicate using GSM and a third radio might communicate using LTE. Many such arrangements are possible and embodiments are not limited to the use of licensed spectrum. In an exemplary aspect of some embodiments unlike conventionally collocated but separate access points for different providers all of the radios are part of the same access point are controlled by the same processor or processors and share an uplink interface .

In other configurations such as those illustrated by a single radio might communicate i.e. transmit and or receive on multiple frequency bands and or for multiple providers . A number of different techniques can be used to provide this functionality. Merely by way of example in some embodiments the radio employs orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA modulation to allow the radio to transmit on multiple bands. In some cases as illustrated by a single radio might communicate through a plurality of antennas and the antennas can be assigned to different sub bands such that the radio communicates on a particular sub band using a particular antenna or antennas. As described in further detail below the antenna s for a particular sub band might be selected to optimize the performance for that sub band. Merely by way of example the antennas might have different lengths and or different radiating characteristics e.g. omni directional Yagi etc. and the length of a particular antenna might be tuned a portion of radio frequency spectrum where it radiates and receives RF energy efficiently.

As noted above different embodiments support a variety of configurations. For example some embodiments support multiple carriers wireless service providers on the same radio assuming that the carriers are using the same radio technology e.g. LTE WiMAX etc. and or employ compatible frequency ranges even if modulation schemes are different in some cases . In some such embodiments this can be done using a base radio that is able to operate over a wide spectrum band and logic to match the appropriate antenna s to the radio at the time they are needed. Another set of embodiments however can employ a dynamic implementation of a software defined radio SDR as the radio . Multiple instances of an SDR can be run by a processor e.g. the processor and the processor can match the appropriate modulated signal to the appropriate antenna. So Provider A could communicate with its subscribers over LTE using spectrum Aa and Provider B could transmit receive over WiMAX using spectrum Bb. The processor then could execute instances of the SDR and map the appropriate antennas to service both providers. The number of SDRs that could be supported might depend on the number of processors and or processor cores virtualized processor instances etc. and or the speed of those processors instances.

In some cases an access point might include additional or modified features to enhance the ability of the access point to provide service on behalf of multiple providers. Merely by way of example illustrates a multi service provider wireless access point that features multiple processors each of which can be assigned for the use of a respective provider . These processors might be separate discrete processors or they might be separate virtual processors i.e. separate virtual machines within a virtual machine VM environment maintained by the wireless access point . In any case the access point might include a separate processor to provide overall control and management of the access point and in a virtualized environment this processor might host all of the virtual machines virtual processors . In other embodiments no separate processor might be included and the overall management of the access point can be handled by one of the processors or shared between multiple processors. In an aspect each of the processors can share a storage medium not shown on but similar to the medium illustrated on via separate partitions virtualization etc. and or each of the processors can have its own dedicated storage medium . Similarly each of the processors might be in communication either through a master processor or directly with the uplink interface and or the radio s . In an aspect the uplink interface can provide a dedicate communication link e.g. VPN between each provider and that provider s respective processor whether the processors are physical or virtual .

As noted above a wide variety of configurations of radios and antennas are possible and this is true for multi processor access points as well. Merely by way of example the access point illustrated by employs a single radio which might be a software defined radio etc. that can provide service for each of the providers. In some cases the master processor might intermediate communications between the provider specific processors and the radio such that the master processor is logically disposed between the provider specific processors and the radio although the access point is not so illustrated in so as to manage access to the radio and prevent congestion. In other cases the access point might feature multiple radios for example as illustrated in . In that case each provider specific processor might have direct communication with its own respective radio as illustrated. In some cases a software defined radio might feature multiple virtual radios similar to a VM environment in which case a single physical radio might provide a logical arrangement as depicted in . 

In another aspect certain embodiments can offer each provider a dedicated management platform as noted above to allow each provider to manage the services provided on behalf of the provider though the access point. Hence illustrates a functional arrangement of a multi service provider wireless access point . This arrangement can be supported by any of the physical arrangements illustrated by above and or any other suitable physical arrangement .

As shown in the multi provider wireless access point supports five different providers although embodiments can support any reasonable number of providers . In particular embodiments the access point includes a general management platform which can be used to access overall access point management functions such as hardware diagnostics general configuration setup for a new provider and or the like. For example in one aspect the general management platform can manage routing of communications between a subscriber and that subscriber s provider. For instance when a wireless communication is received on a radio the general management platform can determine e.g. as described above which provider is associated with that communication and can route that communication to that provider for example over a dedicated link to that provider . The general management platform can also manage statistics collection e.g. as described in further detail below.

The general management platform can perform a variety of administrative and management functions as well. Merely by way of example in some cases the general management platform can manage common wireless radio capabilities such as monitoring general radio functionality managing base computing capabilities memory processor load etc. managing virtual hypervisor platform capabilities whether bare metal or software based in a VM based environment e.g. assignment allocation of platform resources managing common virtual private network capabilities. I.e. VPN tunnel size routing etc. managing overall security of the wireless access point and or any of the provider specific processing systems.

In other aspects the general management platform can provide alarms to the operator of the access point and or one or more of the wireless service providers if any non optimal conditions are detected with radios hardware etc. Such alarms might be provided by the general management platform interface and or interfaces with any particular provider. In other cases the alarms can be provided by messaging electronic mail text SMS etc. either through the uplink interface or through the radios themselves or both. The general management platform can also monitor and or manage other nearby equipment such as electrical power battery back up tower lights heating and or cooling equipment etc. and provide appropriate alarms or notifications if any unusual conditions are detected.

The general management platform can perform a number of other administrative and or supervisory tasks. Merely by way of example in an aspect general management platform can perform and or provide an interface for the basic FCAPS Fault Configuration Accounting Provisioning and Surveillance capabilities. In some cases the general management platform can act as a logging repository capturing any or all relevant processing events and providing a historical record thereof. This logging could include post event processing and the routing of specific logged information to wireless providers and the access point provider. The general management platform can also act to perform specialized functions such as providing free access e.g. over WiFi etc. to certain subscribers for a period of time.

Alternatively and or additionally the general management platform might perform traffic management. For example the general management platform could manage the priority of traffic of one service provider s e.g. subscriber traffic over another provider s e.g. traffic depending on the business arrangement that exists between the provider of the wireless access point and the respective service providers . Merely by way of example one of the service providers e.g. may pay more in order to be the anchor tenant and will receive preferential treatment during periods of congestion and the general management platform could accommodate this relationship. In other aspects the general management platform may be capable of load balancing capacity over multiple service providers. The platform could also be used to configure a minimum level of performance capacity for all service providers. The general management platform could be configured prioritize GETS Government Emergency Telecommunications Service traffic in an emergency etc. The general management platform in some embodiments can track usage and or provide indicators when certain thresholds are exceeded. In other embodiments the general management platform can manage transmit power levels in response to various conditions such as increasing the cell size e.g. by increasing transmit power to provide more offloading of an adjacent service provider cell site or other access node in periods of heavy load. A communication channel could be established to communicate such information when necessary e.g. via the uplink interface and or one or more radios .

In another aspect the general management platform might be configured to monitor the performance of backhaul link e.g. the dedicated links to each provider through the uplink interface in terms of latency and jitter to ensure sufficient service level agreements SLA are met to support services offered through the multi service provider access point . Appropriate alarms can be generated to trigger appropriate corrective actions.

The general management platform can comprise a management interface and or any necessary supporting hardware firmware or software architecture. In one aspect the interface might be a graphical user interface which for example could be provided by a web portal hosted by the wireless access point . Alternatively and or additionally the interface might be an API or a machine to machine interface that can accept input from other network elements a software client running on a remote computer etc. In an aspect the interface can be accessed through an uplink interface not shown on but illustrated on . In some cases the uplink interface might support a VPN between the general management platform and an operator of the wireless access point who as noted above might be one of the participating wireless providers or might be a separate entity such that the general management platform and or more precisely the interface thereto is accessible to the operator provider thereof via the VPN. In another embodiment a separate management interface may be employed to provide out of band management access through a separate physical link which could be wired or wireless.

In some cases the wireless access point can also include discrete management platforms for each of the wireless service providers respectively each of these platforms can be securely accessible e.g. via a VPN through the uplink interface by the respective provider to which it is assigned. These management platforms which can be architecturally similar to the general management platform can be hosted by discrete processors either virtual or physical assigned to each of the participating providers as described above and or can be in communication with the appropriate provider via dedicated communication links respectively. The discrete management platforms can provide their respective providers with the ability to manage various aspects of the wireless service provided on behalf of each provider. Merely by way of example a management platform can receive configuration data from a provider and can configure one or more of the radios based on that configuration data. In a particular aspect this configuration can be used by the provider to implement a radio coordination scheme with the provider s other wireless facilities as described in further detail below.

In that light illustrates a method of providing wireless service for multiple service providers from a single access point in accordance with one set of embodiments. While the techniques and procedures of the method are depicted and or described in a certain order for purposes of illustration it should be appreciated that certain procedures may be reordered and or omitted within the scope of various embodiments. Moreover while the method can be implemented by and in some cases are described below with respect to the systems illustrated by or components thereof these methods may also be implemented using any suitable hardware implementation. Similarly while those systems and or components thereof can operate according to the method e.g. by executing instructions embodied on a computer readable medium the systems can also operate according to other modes of operation and or perform other suitable procedures.

The method might comprise providing a multi service provider wireless access point block . The access point in one aspect might having one or more radios to communicate with wireless devices and an uplink connection to a plurality of wireless service providers. Providing an access point can comprise any of a variety of operations such as installing the access point providing power and or network connectivity for the access point communicating with the access point e.g. via the uplink connection and or the like. Broadly stated any operation related to the installation setup operation and or maintenance of an access point can be considered providing the access point.

As noted above an access point radio in certain embodiments might employ OFDMA modulation. In some such embodiments the method might comprise mapping one or more OFDMA sub bands to one or more antennas block such that when a sub band is mapped to a particular antenna the radio employs that antenna to communicate on that sub band. A number of techniques can be used to map antennas to sub bands. Merely by way of example in some cases the method might include identifying certain antennas in an antenna array that provide enhanced communication performance for a particular sub band for example based on site specific RF characteristics antenna length as compared to the sub band frequency etc. The antenna s identified as providing enhanced communication for a particular sub band might then be mapped to that sub band.

In some embodiments the radio s might be configured to transmit signals on particular bands in a round robin basis transmitting on one band then the next etc. or according to some other algorithm that may provide priority to a particular wireless service provider in a particular band. The radio can also listen for an access request from a client radio e.g. a wireless device . Once a request to access the network is received the multi service provider access point can adjust its timing algorithms so as to appropriately service the call. If only one wireless service provider is using the access point all resources can be dedicated to that service provider. The algorithm can be dynamically adjusted based on a variety of parameters including but not limited to the number of service providers sharing the access point the number of client radios accessing the access point contracted service provider priorities received signal strength signal to noise ratio SNR interference indicators etc. In other words the access point can be treated as a pooled resource among all the service providers that are sharing it. The access point can also be configured to provide a subscribed minimum level of access per wireless provider and dynamically share remaining resources across wireless providers.

As illustrated the method further comprises receiving at the multi service provider wireless access point a communication from a wireless device block . For instance in an embodiment the communication from a wireless device might comprise a conventional wireless registration message. More broadly the communication from the wireless device can be any communication that provides sufficient information for the multi service provider wireless access point to identify the device as described further below. In some cases the communication might be a response to an interrogating communication from the multi service provider wireless access point itself.

In some embodiments the method further comprises collecting e.g. at the multi service provider wireless access point an identifier of the wireless device from the communication block . The identifier can comprise any data that can be used to identify the wireless device. Merely by way of example the identifier might comprise the telephone number assigned to the wireless device. Alternatively the identifier might comprise the mobile identification number MIN of the wireless device the electronic serial number ESN of the wireless device a media access control MAC address or any other identifier that is sufficiently unique to permit identification of the wireless device.

The method can further include at block identifying a wireless service provider serving the wireless device after the wireless service provider has been identified the multi service provider wireless access point can register the wireless device with the wireless service provider s network block . A number of techniques can be used to identify the wireless service provider. For example in some cases the communication from the wireless device might include information identifying the wireless service provider. In other cases however the service provider can be identified at least in part based on the identifier of the wireless device.

For example some embodiments maintain a database that correlates wireless device identifiers whether the mobile telephone number the MIN the ESN or another identifier with wireless service providers. In some embodiments the method might comprise storing the database on the multi service provider wireless access point. In other embodiments the database might be stored at any other suitable location accessible by the multi service provider wireless access point. Hence the database might be remote from the multi service provider wireless access point and or the method might comprise accessing the database over the uplink connection.

The database might be populated based on data provided by the wireless service providers themselves and or by data obtained through other sources. Such databases might be replicated among a plurality of multi service provider wireless access points. In one aspect the database might include a record for a plurality of wireless devices and the record might include a field that lists one or more wireless place identifiers for that wireless device and a field that contains the identity of the wireless service provider that provides service for that wireless device. The wireless device identifier field might be a key field in the database such that the wireless access point can access the database and search the database for a record containing the identifier the wireless device that record will include an identifier of the wireless service provider.

In some cases the method comprises identifying a sub band e.g. an OFDMA sub band for communications between the access point and the wireless device block . Any of a number of factors can be used to identify a sub band for communications between the multi service provider wireless access point and the wireless device. Merely by way of example in some cases the wireless device might only be capable of communicating on a particular sub band which generally would be the sub band on which the multi service provider wireless access point received the original communication from the wireless device and the sub band can be identified as the sub band on which the original communication was received.

Alternatively and or additionally the multi service provider wireless access point might identify the sub band based on the frequency range that is allocated to the wireless service provider that serves the wireless device which can be identified e.g. as described above . In this way for example the multi service provider wireless access point can select a sub band that is appropriate for the wireless device and corresponding provider. In such embodiments identifying the sub band might comprise accessing a database that correlates wireless service providers with allocated frequency ranges. This database might be the same database the correlates wireless identifiers with wireless service providers and or might be a different database. As a general matter the database s described herein might be distributed replicated tiered hierarchical or organized arranged in any other suitable manner. 

The method then might further comprise searching the database for a record corresponding to the identified wireless service provider that record then would have a field identifying one or more frequency ranges allocated to that wireless service provider and the multi service provider wireless access point then could choose a sub band corresponding to that frequency range. It should be noted of course that in communications originating from the service provider the identity of the service provider can be determined from such communications either implicitly e.g. based on the source address of the communication packets or explicitly based on some identifier provided with the communications. 

As noted above the identified sub band might be mapped to one or more antennas of the access point and the method can further include at block communicating with the wireless device using the antenna s mapped to the identified sub band.

In some aspects the method might further comprise receiving at the multi service provider wireless access point one or more subsequent communications from the wireless device block and or routing from the multi service provider wireless access point the one or more subsequent communications to the identified wireless service provider block e.g. over the uplink connection. Merely by way of example the uplink connection might comprise a packet data connection e.g. an Ethernet Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS or other Internet Protocol IP connection . The multi service provider wireless access point then might packetize the communications received from the wireless device address the packets to a network address corresponding to the identified wireless service provider and transmit the packets comprising the subsequent communications over the uplink connection. Using standard routing techniques those packets then would be routed to the appropriate wireless service provider. By the same token packets received from the wireless service provider would be transmitted e.g. using the radio the sub band and or the antenna appropriate for that wireless service provider and or wireless device for reception by the wireless device.

At block the method comprises establishing one or more management platforms. In a particular aspect this operation can comprise establishing for each of the of service providers participating in the access point a dedicated management platform for each service provider to manage wireless service provided by that service provider. In another aspect this operation can comprise establishing a general management platform separate from each of the dedicated management consoles for managing the wireless access point. With respect to either the general management platform or the provider specific management platforms the management platform might provide an interface for the respective provider and or access point operator to interact with the physical or virtual hardware of the access point. A variety of such interfaces are possible within the scope of different embodiments. Merely by way of example the interface might include one or more application programming interfaces API a machine to machine interface e.g. with XML as a transport mechanism a server interface for dedicated clients running on other machines and or the like. The interface can be provided over one or more VPNs specific to the operator of the access point or any respective participating provider depending on which management platform is at issue and such a VPN can be established through uplink interface as described above and or through any of the radios of the wireless access point.

In a particular aspect the interface might comprise a user interface for direct interaction between a user e.g. an administrator or operator of the wireless service provider and or access point provider and the management platform. This interaction may be either unsecured or secured using any appropriate type of encryption or other security method e.g. certificate based encryption secure sockets layer SSL etc. For example the user interface can be used to output information for a user e.g. by displaying the information on a display device printing information with a printer playing audio through a speaker etc. the user interface can also function to receive input from a user e.g. using standard input devices such as mice and other pointing devices motion capture devices touchpads and or touchscreens keyboards e.g. numeric and or alphabetic microphones etc. The procedures undertaken to provide a user interface therefore can vary depending on the nature of the implementation in some cases providing a user interface can comprise displaying the user interface on a display device in more typical cases however in which the user interface is displayed on a device remote from the wireless access point such as on a client computer wireless device etc. providing the user interface might comprise formatting data for transmission to such a device and or transmitting receiving and or interpreting data that is used to create the user interface on the remote device e.g. through the uplink interface and or radios over a VPN etc. Alternatively and or additionally the user interface on a client computer or any other appropriate user device might be a web interface in which the user interface is provided through one or more web pages that are served from a web server executing on the access point and or a web server in communication with the access point and are received and displayed by a web browser on the client computer or other capable user device . The web pages can display output from the access point and or receive input from the user e.g. by using Web based forms via hyperlinks electronic buttons etc. . A variety of techniques can be used to create these Web pages and or display receive information such as JavaScript Java applications or applets dynamic HTML and or AJAX technologies to name but a few examples.

In many cases providing a user interface will comprise providing one or more display screens for receiving configuration information for access point management and or displaying status information e.g. using a dashboard display that can illustrate current values of various parameters and statistics notifications alarms etc. Such display screens can include one or more user interface elements. As used herein the term user interface element also described as a user interface mechanism or a user interface device means any text image or device that can be displayed on a display screen for providing information to a user and or for receiving user input. Some such elements are commonly referred to as widgets and can include without limitation text text boxes text fields tables and or grids menus toolbars charts hyperlinks buttons lists combo boxes checkboxes radio buttons and or the like. It should be appreciated that the choice of user interface elements for a particular purpose is typically implementation dependent and or discretionary.

As noted above in an aspect of certain embodiments the user interface provides interaction between a user and a computer system. Hence when this document describes procedures for displaying or otherwise providing information to a user or to receiving input from a user the user interface may be the vehicle for the exchange of such input output.

Returning to the method can further comprise providing discrete processing systems for each of the providers block . In an aspect the discrete processing system can allow each provider to provide wireless service for its respective subscribers. As noted above such processing systems can be separate physical processing systems for a provider and or can be virtualized processing systems within a VM environment. Hence providing a discrete processing system for a particular provider can include establishing a virtual processing system within the VM environment assigning such a virtual processing system to a particular provider assigning physical resources to a particular provider and or the like.

It should be noted as well that not every embodiment need provide such separate processing systems. In some cases a single processing system might manage all access point functionality and for example multiple providers might be able to log into that single processing system using different authentication credentials and each provider might be authorized only to perform configuration on those aspects of the access point that do not affect the other providers or general access point functionality.

At block the method might comprise providing dedicated communication links for each of the participating providers. As noted above in one aspect such a dedicated communication link can comprise a VPN between the wireless access point and or a discrete processing system or management platform thereof and the provider. Hence providing such a dedicated communication link can comprise establishing a VPN and or virtual local area network VLAN between the access point and or discrete processing system which might have its own IP address for example and a host operated by the provider. A number of different virtual private networking techniques including for example pseudo wires VLAN tagging point to point tunneling layer 2 VPNs L2VPN and or the like might be suitable for such applications and any such technologies can be used as appropriate to establish the dedicated communication link between the access point and the provider. Similar techniques can be used to establish a dedicated communication link between the access point and or a general management platform thereof and an operator of the access point.

At block the method can comprise receiving configuration data from one or more of the participating providers. Generally each provider might have its own configuration data that is specific to the resources of the access point assigned to that provider. In one aspect such configuration data can be received by the discrete management platform for a particular provider at the interface assigned to that provider e.g. over a dedicated communication link . Such information may be received as a text file as machine to machine data as a binary upload as user input provided to a webpage or other user interface and or using any other appropriate mode of information exchange. The configuration data can include any of a variety of different types of instructions for controlling operation of the wireless access point and or of those resources such as processing systems radios antennas etc. assigned to a particular provider . Merely by way of example in one set of embodiments configuration data might comprise instructions to turn on a radio turn off a radio enable and or disable communication on various frequencies tune networking and or wireless service parameters and or the like.

As another example one or more radios at the wireless access point might support a number of different wireless standards and the configuration data might specify a particular standard or version thereof such as WiFi LTE Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 etc. to which transmissions from that provider s radio should conform. As a further example a particular provider might have implemented a radio coordination scheme in that provider s wireless network. Such a radio coordination scheme can require particular configurations of each radio within the network to optimize network performance handoff between different access points and or the like. In a particular embodiment the configuration data can enable the provider to integrate the wireless access point within that radio coordination scheme. In some cases such configuration might for example require establishment of a separate dedicated link e.g. VPN to a particular network point in the provider s network to transport traffic in accordance with the radio coronation scheme.

The method then can further comprise configuring various resources of the access point e.g. one or more radios assigned to the provider the provider s discrete processing system etc. based on the received configuration data block . For instance returning to the examples above configuring the wireless access point might comprise configuring one or more radios to communicate using the specified standard or version therefore to operate in accordance with the specified coordination scheme etc. In other cases configuring the access point might comprise establishing one or more additional dedicated links e.g. VPNs to accommodate a specified radio coordination scheme block .

At block the wireless access point receives a communication from a wireless subscriber and at block the method comprises transmitting that communication to the appropriate provider that serves that subscriber. The method described above in conjunction with describes an exemplary process of receiving a communication from wireless subscriber and routing that communication to the appropriate wireless provider and such a process can be used to receive such communication and transmit communication to the appropriate provider in the context of the method as well.

Alternatively and or additionally if a particular radio is assigned to a particular provider and or is in communication with a particular provider s discrete processing system such communication might be received and routed by that discrete processing system without requiring the provider identification techniques described in conjunction with . In this way for example some embodiments can function effectively as multiple dedicated access points with a dedicated radio physical or virtual controlled by and communicating with a dedicated processing system physical or virtual which communicates with the provider s network over a dedicated communication link. Various hybrids of these two techniques can be implemented as well. Merely by way of example a received communication might be examined by a general management platform to determine the provider associated with that communication and the communication then could be provided to the discrete processing system of that provider which would transmit the communication over the dedicated link to its provider. In this way for example the general management platform could maintain overall responsibility for routing of incoming communications.

In some embodiments the method comprises compiling performance statistics block . In some aspects the general management platform might collect such statistics which can include any data related to performance and or usage of the wireless access point by subscribers. Examples of statistics that can be collected include without limitation traffic statistics e.g. bytes in out connections made lost etc. errored transmissions receptions and or the like which can be assessed for peak and or average numbers by time of day day of week etc. indications of capacity available and or consumed peak traffic periods identifying information e.g. device identification such as wireless device MAC address SIM identifier IMEI IP address etc. carrier identification session time total number of sessions mobile device location geocode information direction and or distance of a mobile device from the access point signal quality transmission type and or the like. In an aspect of some embodiments statistics can be gathered not only for subscribers of participating providers but also for subscribers of other carriers even if those subscribers are not authorized to communicate through the wireless access point at that time . Registration requests and other communications from such devices can be compiled and identified e.g. by carrier .

The method might further comprise categorizing such statistics block . Merely by way of example statistics can be categorized by provider for example by collecting all statistics into a table and filtering the table by a provider identifier associated with each communication. After segregating statistics by provider the provider specific statistics can be communicated to each respective provider for example by displaying the statistics on a dashboard in the provider s management interface emailing statistics to the provider injecting the statistics into logs or other records and or the like. Because statistics can be collected for all devices communicating with the wireless access point provider specific statistics can be compiled even for carriers that currently do not participate in the wireless access point. In particular such statistics can be analyzed to determine how many of that carrier s subscribers have attempted to indicate with the wireless access point and or the performance that the access point would be able to provide to that carrier s subscribers.

Thus in an aspect of some embodiments the method comprises generating a marketing report block . The marketing report can include statistics about a nonparticipating carrier s subscribers and can be used to persuade that carrier that it should participate in the wireless access point to better service its own subscribers. Information provided within the marketing report could include any of the statistics noted above and or collected by the access point in any type of format such as reports charts etc. counts of unsuccessful registrations or attempts by nonparticipating carrier s customers counts of free access given session attempt times etc. Such a marketing report can then be provided to personnel of the access point operator who can approach the nonparticipating carrier to seek a business relationship with that carrier. In some embodiments the wireless access point might be configured to obtain location information on serviced mobile devices e.g. based on triangulation of the device GPS or other location data received from the device etc. . In such embodiments maps can be generated based on mobile location to demonstrate coverage area of the cell. That information can also be further sub categorized to show data rates at that particular distance so the data rate contours can be generated to further characterize coverage and performance to service providers contemplating whether to participate.

In some cases the method can comprise calculating a service fee block for one or more of the participating providers. Some embodiments for example charge providers a fee for providing wireless service through the access point. Such fees can be based on any number of factors. Merely by way of example in some cases a provider might be charged a flat periodic e.g. monthly annual etc. fee for unlimited usage of the wireless access point. In other cases such fees might be usage based. Merely by way of example a fee charged to a provider might be based at least in part on an amount of data traffic either downstream upstream and or both handled by the wireless access point on behalf of the provider over a particular billing period. In another embodiment the fee might be based at least in part on a number of subscribers serviced a number of wireless minutes provided on a type of service provided WiFi 3G LTE etc. on a time of day and or day of week in which service is provided on a quality of service e.g. real time delivery best effort delivery etc. . In some cases there may be pricing tiers based on one more of these factors and or the calculated fee might be based on a combination of factors. For instance the access point provider might charge a flat monthly fee plus a price per GB of WiFi traffic plus another price per GB of LTE traffic.

At block then the method can comprise billing one or more of the providers for use of the wireless access point and or more particularly for service provided on behalf of the provider through the wireless access point . Any number of techniques can be used to bill a provider for use of the wireless access point. Merely by way of example in some cases the access point might provide usage statistics to a billing computer e.g. a mainframe transaction processor etc. in the access point provider s network which then might produce electronic and or paper invoices and submit those invoices using in a standard manner on a periodic basis. Any number of billing arrangements are possible in accordance with various embodiments.

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device a WWAN device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example with other computer systems and or with any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also may comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be encoded and or stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system i.e. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware such as programmable logic controllers field programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or the like might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As mentioned above in one aspect some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a non transitory physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media includes without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media includes without limitation coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communication subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

While certain features and aspects have been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods provided by various embodiments are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while certain functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with the several embodiments.

Moreover while the procedures of the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary aspects of those embodiments the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although several exemplary embodiments are described above it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

