---

title: Obtaining attribution information for representations
abstract: This disclosure describes systems and methods that enable attribution information to be obtained and associated with digital items, also referred as representations, as well as enable supplemental information to be associated with the representations. In some implementations, a user may request to use a representation and the system may determine that attribution information is to be obtained from a rights holder and/or provider of the representation. When the attribution information is obtained it is associated with the representation that is available for use by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09418050&OS=09418050&RS=09418050
owner: Pinterest, Inc.
number: 09418050
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130109
---
People are increasingly interacting with computers and other electronic devices in new and interesting ways. With the increased processing capabilities connectivity and location tracking electronic devices have become widespread and used in many everyday activities. For example people often use electronic devices to search for products watch videos listen to music research shop for both digital and physical products and receive news just to name a few. Other uses include e commerce shopping communicating with social communities friends and family photography and many others.

In many computing environments digital items may propagate in ways that make it difficult to determine the original source of the digital item. This is especially true on the World Wide Web which is designed to make it easy for one webpage to use digital items from many other webpages. This often results in use or presentation of the digital items without proper attribution information.

While implementations are described herein by way of example those skilled in the art will recognize that the implementations are not limited to the examples or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit implementations to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope as defined by the appended claims. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

This disclosure describes in part systems and methods that enable gathering and use of attribution information for digital items also referred to herein as representations and in some implementations allow rights holders of those digital items to control how those items are used as well as provide supplemental information for those items. In various computing environments such as the Internet representations e.g. images video audio are often made available to other users for viewing copying sharing etc. In some instances the representations may be made available by the rights holder s of those representations by another entity authorized by the rights holder s or by others who have obtained a copy or are otherwise accessing and presenting the representation.

For purposes of this discussion a presenter site as used herein refers to a site or other external source such as a web page that may be accessed by a user and which presents representations to a user. A provider as used herein is a site or other external source that hosts or is otherwise the provider of a representation. Finally a consumer site as used herein is a site or other external source that obtains a representation from a provider for presentation. As further discussed below a presenter site may be either and or both a provider and a consumer site.

The following example provides further illustration for the above terminology. A photo sharing site may host images on behalf of one or more rights holders of those images. In this aspect the photo sharing site is a provider. The photo sharing site may also be a presenter site if one or more of those representations are made available to users by the photo sharing site. Likewise the photo sharing site may also be a consumer site if one or more of the representations made available to users by the photo sharing site are obtained from another provider.

To further illustrate the photo sharing site may maintain a web page http www.photoshare.com that is accessible by users via a browser application through which representations are presented to those users. In such an example when the web page of the photo sharing site is accessed a browser application first downloads HTML code of the web page and may use a representation identifier included in the HTML code to obtain the representation from the provider for inclusion in the web page. If the HTML code includes a representation identifier that only identifies the representation such as or identifies the same location as the presenter such as 

In comparison the photo sharing site may be a consumer site if the HTML code includes a representation identifier that identifies both a provider and the representation such as . In this instance the browser will contact the provider specified by the representation identifier http www.example.com and request the representation picture.jpg . The technique of obtaining a representation from another provider is known as inline linking or direct linking hotlinking .

As will be appreciated code of a web page may include multiple representation identifiers. Some of those representation identifiers may identify representations provided by the provider of the web page while others may identify representations provided by other providers. In such an instance a presenter site may be both a provider and a consumer site.

Inline linking is an intended feature of many computing environments because it allows a simple way to share representations and information. However some consumer sites may inline link to representations from providers without providing appropriate attribution and or obtaining authorization also known as leeching.

The implementations described herein provide a mechanism for obtaining appropriate attribution information for a representation before it is utilized or embedded on a destination presenter site. The implementations may be used for representations on a presenter site where the presenter is the provider as well as representations on a presenter site where the presenter site is a consumer site. For example if a user requests to embed onto a destination presenter site an inline linked representation from a presenter site the representation identifier e.g. URL included in the code of the presenter site may be obtained and used to identify the provider of the representation. In a simple example the provider e.g. www.example.com may be identified directly in the representation identifier identified in a base reference in the code to a provider or assumed to be the same as the presenter site if the representation identifier only identifies the representation. However in many instances the representation identifier may reference a content delivery network CDN or a cache within a CDN where a copy of the representation is delivered on behalf of the provider. In other instances the representation identifier may reference a seemingly anonymous location from which the representation is obtained.

In instances where the provider of the representation cannot be determined directly from the representation identifier the representation identifier may be compared to a provider list that identifies addresses locations CDNs or other identifiers associated with various providers to identify a provider of the representation. Alternatively or in addition thereto the representation identifier may be provided to the identified CDN and the CDN may return the identity of the provider of the representation.

Once the provider of the representation is identified the systems and methods described herein may submit an attribution information request to the provider for attribution information related to the representation as well as any supplemental information relating to the representation. In some implementations the request may also seek authorization to inline link to the representation or otherwise access the representation. In other implementations authorization to use the representation may be assumed unless a denial or other restriction is returned as part of the attribution information request response. In some implementations the information supplied may be static. In other implementations it may be dynamic. Static supplemental information is any information that does not change. Dynamic supplemental information is any information that may be updated.

Attribution information as used herein may include but is not limited to the type of representation e.g. audio video image the width height and or depth with which the representation should be presented the representation that is to be presented a thumbnail of the representation the title of the representation the representation identifier e.g. URL for the location of the representation the identity of the author or rights holder s of the representation the identifier e.g. URL for the rights holder s web site the identity of the provider of the representation the identifier for the provider s site etc. For some forms of representations e.g. video additional information specifying how the representation is to be presented may also be included in the attribution information.

A rights holder may be any entity that owns one or more rights in the representation and or the represented object such as an author or publisher. Representations may be associated with any number of entities such as publishers distributors resellers agents editors contributors manufacturers etc. that may be entitled or otherwise have an interest in the representation and or the represented object. For purposes of simplification rights holders as used herein may refer to one or more of the above entities.

Supplemental information as used herein may be any additional information that may be associated with a representation. For example supplemental information may include but is not limited to information about the representation information about an object represented by the representation the price of the representation the price of an object represented by the representation availability of the representation availability of the represented object location of the represented object location of the rights holder advertisements etc. Supplemental information may be provided by the rights holder s of the representation the provider the consumer or any other external source. In some implementations supplemental information may also be periodically updated by external sources providers rights holders consumers and or include actions that may be performed by users interacting with the representation.

In some implementations a user may select a representation from a presentation site for use in creating an object identifier at a destination presentation site. Utilizing the implementations described herein appropriate attribution information may be obtained for use with the representation and included in the object identifier. For example as an object identifier is being created the returned attribution information such as identity of rights holder s of the representation and or the represented object the source of the representation etc. may be included in the object identifier thereby providing proper attribution for the representation and or the represented object. Likewise returned supplemental information such as the price of the representation price of the represented object etc. may be included in the object identifier thereby providing additional information to a viewer of the object identifier. In some implementations the attribution information included in the object identifier may be revised. In other implementations the attribution information may not be changed once provided.

For purposes of discussion an object identifier as used herein is a collection of one or more items of information that identifies an object based on a user s perspective or context. The object identifier may include any combination of a representation for the object such as a graphical representation audible representation or other representation of the object attribution information regarding the representation and or the object a context for the object as understood by the user a description of the object provided by the user supplemental information about the representation and or the object the set to which the object belongs discussed below the source of the object the provider of the representation the rights holder s of the representation and or the object any parent object identifier from which the object identifier was created and any identification of other similar object identifiers. As will be appreciated additional or fewer items of information may be included in an object identifier.

The methods and systems described herein further enable users to manage search for share and discover representations objects by organizing object identifiers into sets. For example users may create one or more sets and object identifiers may be associated with those sets. Generally a set is a collection of object identifiers created by a user. In one implementation each set may include any number of object identifiers including zero a null set . An object identifier may be associated with one or many sets. In one implementation an object identifier may only be associated with one set.

Users can create object identifiers and add them to sets based on representations for objects provided or identified by the user or by adding existing object identifiers to their own set of object identifiers. Additional information regarding object identifiers and sets can be found in U.S. patent application No. 61 725 462 titled Management of Objects According To User Context filed Nov. 12 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. An object may be anything that can be represented. For example a user may create an object identifier for a television show an image a physical object a sound a web page a location a digital object and the like. A representation as used herein may be any form of a digital item e.g. image video audio that represents an object. In some instances the representation may also be the object.

The network may include a local area network a wide area network such as a public switched telephone network PSTN a cable television network a satellite network a collection of networks a public Internet protocol network a private Internet protocol network or a combination thereof. Moreover the network may be wired wireless or a combination of the two. The server system may also include a mappings data store an object identifier data store a set data store a source data store a user profile data store and a representation data store . As discussed further below the data stores may include lists arrays databases and other data structures used to provide storage and retrieval of data. Likewise while the disclosure describes multiple data stores in some implementations the data stores may be configured as a single data store or multiple data stores.

The mappings data store object identifier data store set data store source data store user profile data store and representation data store may be integrated with the server system or otherwise communicatively coupled with the server system . For example one or more of the mappings data store object identifier data store set data store source data store user profile data store and representation data store may be located at a remote computing resource not shown and communicatively coupled with the server system . In some implementations the mappings data store object identifier data store set data store source data store user profile data store and representation data store may include one or more CD RW DVD RW drives hard disk drives solid state drives tape drives or other storage devices that are utilized to store digital content and information. The server system separately or together with the mappings data store object identifier data store set data store source data store user profile data store and representation data store may provide an object management service that facilitates user exploration creation management and sharing of object identifiers and or sets into which one or more object identifiers may be included. The object management service may also facilitate the adding and or updating of supplemental information by external sources and or the object management service . The object management service also facilities obtaining attribution information and or supplemental information for representations that are to be included in an object identifier or otherwise used.

In some implementations the server system may also be configured to exchange information with one or more external sources . The external sources may include any type of entity and or individual s that provides a service website product or information that may be used to supplement an object identifier and or representation of an object and or from which a representation attribution information and or supplemental information may be obtained. For example one external source may be a provider consumer and or presenter site. As further examples external sources may include a service offering such as local weather time streaming video of a location etc. CDN websites users and stores N such as a toy store grocery store electronic commerce e commerce store book store etc. External sources may be associated with a fixed location s such as their place of business a location that may change e.g. hiking guide mobile health provider depending on the external sources current location or no location at all e.g. digital or virtual business . Digital or virtual businesses such as websites include any form of e commerce or other digital offering that may provide representations and or supplemental information.

For example a user may obtain a representation from an e commerce site presenter site . Likewise the e commerce site may provide a shopping cart or purchase button also referred to herein as a buy button and a price for the object identified in the representation the buy button and the price are both supplemental information that can be used to provide pricing information as well as initiate an action to purchase the represented object. A user when viewing the object identifier that includes the representation of the object with which the e commerce site has associated a price and purchase button may also view the price for the object and interact with the purchase button to initiate a purchase of the represented object.

In some implementations the external source may interact with the object management service and provide representations for objects along with attribution information and or supplemental information that could then be used to form object identifiers for users. For example if the representation selected by a user for which an object identifier is to be created is from a presenter site and the representation is inline linked the presenter site is also a consumer site the object management service may identify the provider of the representation and obtain attribution information for the representation as well as any supplemental information about the representation and or the represented object. In response to that request the provider may return as part of the attribution information a representation that is to be used in creating the object identifier an identifier for the provider the identity of the rights holder s of the representation and or the represented object etc.

The provider may also deliver supplemental information such as the price of the representation or represented object the availability of the object location of the provider hours of operation contact information etc.

In some implementations the presenter site may also provide supplemental information that is associated with the representation. For example many blog sites presenter site recommend and or promote products that are for sale at an e commerce site. When users visit the e commerce site from the blog site the blog site may receive a referral fee from the e commerce site. To maintain the referral fee the blog site presenter site may provide supplemental information such that when the representation is used in an object identifier at a destination presenter site the referral fees may still be maintained when a user traverses to the e commerce site from the object identifier.

Attribution information and or supplemental information may also be periodically updated and or updated each time a user views the object identifier. Those updates are reflected in the object identifiers that include the representation. For example the provider may periodically update the price of a representation. The updated price will be presented each time the representation and or the corresponding object identifier s are viewed.

Returning to client devices may include personal computers tablet computers eBook reader devices laptop computers desktop computers netbooks personal digital assistants PDA portable gaming devices wireless communication devices such as smart phones or mobile handsets set top boxes game consoles cameras audio recorders players or any combination thereof. As will be described with regard to the implementations shown herein the server system is configured to exchange data and information including information about users sets representations object identifiers and other like information with the client device . For example the object management service may interact via the server system to determine a user s location provide representations of objects near the user s location enable a user to select a representation of an object create an object identifier and include that object identifier in a user s set of object identifiers.

Likewise a user may interact with the object management service via a client device to create discover and view object identifiers and sets of object identifiers obtain information about or purchase objects identified by an object identifier and or to communicate with others. For example a user Steve in this example may submit a request to create an object identifier for a race car by selecting to use an image representation of a race car at a presenter site. The user Steve may provide a description such as The race car I drove for my birthday present for inclusion in the object identifier and the client device may also identify and associate the user s location with the request.

The client device may also identify the provider for the representation and obtain attribution information and or supplemental information that is included with the representation to create the object identifier. As discussed below attribution information and or supplemental information may be obtained from a provider by the client device and or by the object management service .

Supplemental information may be provided by the provider the rights holder s of the representation and or other external sources. This information may be updated and or changed each time a user views the object identifier. For example the race car driving school that provides opportunities for people to experience the thrill of driving a race car may be the provider of the representation selected by Steve and may provide supplemental information such as contact information location website pricing etc. that is associated with the representation of the race car and as a result included in the object identifier created by Steve that includes the representation of the race car. In some implementations other external sources such as nearby hotels travel agencies etc. may also provide supplemental information e.g. advertisements that are associated with the representation and or the object identifier. These other external sources may be randomly selected identified by the provider and or rights holder s of the representation or object or associated with the representation and or object identifier by other means.

Other users of the object management service may interact with the same or different client device and explore the object management service . If supplemental information is associated with the object identifier that information may be updated and current supplemental information provided to users when viewing the object identifier. In some examples the supplemental information may be updated based on information about the user viewing the object identifier regardless of whether they were the creator of the object identifier. Continuing with the above example if the race car driving school has multiple locations the supplemental information regarding location contact information etc. may be updated to represent the location of the race car school that is nearest to the user currently viewing the object identifier. For example Steve may have driven the race car at a school in California and when he views the object identifier receives information about the California school. However when a different user Greg who is located in Texas views the object identifier he receives supplemental information about the Texas school. Likewise Greg may receive supplemental information from other external sources based on Greg s location.

The mappings data store stores information about the relationships between object identifiers sets users representations presenters providers consumers and other external sources. For example for each object identifier a link or other reference to the rights holder s of the representation and or the object represented by the object identifier is maintained. Likewise an identifier e.g. URL for the provider of the representation may also be maintained.

The object identifier data store maintains information about each object identifier created by the object management service . For example for each object identifier the object management service may store in the object identifier data store information as to the representation included in the object identifier the set to which the object identifier is associated the user that created the object identifier the context for the object identifier any user provided description for the object identifier any supplemental information associated with the object identifier the provider of the representation included in the object identifier and any parent object identifier from which information was obtained.

The set data store includes information about each set established by users of the object management service . As discussed above a set is a collection of object identifiers that a user creates. A set may be a null set that does not include any object identifiers. Likewise any number of object identifiers may be associated with a set. The set data store for each set stores information that identifies the user that created the set the context for the set a category for the set any user provided description for the set any static information associated with the set and an identification of object identifiers associated with the set.

The source data store stores information about sources of objects that are represented by object identifiers managed by the object management service and or information about external sources that provide supplemental information associated with representations of one or more objects. In some examples the source may be a presenter site provider or consumer site from which a representation was obtained to create an object identifier. In other examples the source may be a physical location. In still other examples a source may be any external source that provides supplemental information that is associated with representations of objects. For example an external source may be a weather service that provides current weather information that is periodically updated and provided to users when viewing object identifiers for objects at specific locations. The source data store may include any form of information about each source including but not limited to the name of the source whether the source has been verified by the object management service the type of information provided by the source identification of representations associated with the source and the like.

The user profile data store stores information about users of the object management service . Any type of information may be stored in the user profile data store . For example user profile information such as attributes name address gender browse history object identifier history set history social networks and or friends with which the user interacts and the like may be stored in the user profile data store . User profile information may be provided directly by users and or collected from users of the client devices when interacting with the object management service e.g. clickstream data as the user explores the object management service when viewing creating or interacting with sets when viewing creating or interacting with object identifiers and or when sharing information with friends or social communities through the object management service . In some implementations user information may be obtained from external sources. For example user profile information may be obtained from an external source with which the user is also affiliated e.g. e commerce web site social network and has agreed to allow sharing of some or all user profile information provided to that external source and or collected by that third party. In some implementations users of the object management service may choose to limit the amount of information included in their user profile to limit access to their user profile information and or to limit what information is shared if any from their user profile information.

The representations data store stores representations that are included in one or more object identifiers. In addition to storing representations attribution information and or supplemental information about the representation may also be maintained in the representations data store . In other implementations attribution information and or supplemental information may be maintained in other data stores accessible by the object management service . An identification or association with each object identifier that includes the representation may also be maintained in the representations data store .

In addition to maintaining information about mappings object identifiers sets sources users and representations the object management service may provide use information back to the users and or the external sources . For example the object management service through communication between the server system and a client device may provide use information back to a user . Such information may include an identification of object identifiers recently viewed created or added identification of others that have viewed the user s sets object identifiers and the like. Likewise the object management service through communication between the server system and the external sources may provide information to the external sources presenter provider consumer . Such information may include analytics about representations and or objects associated with the external source other external sources that may be associated with and provide supplemental information and the like.

Upon initiating the request one or more representations accessible from the presenter site are identified. For example if the user is viewing a presenter web page and initiates a request to use a representation included in the web page each of the representations included in the web page may be identified. As an alternative the user may identify the representation they desire to use. For example the request to use a representation may include an identifier e.g. URL for a specific representation or the web page may only include a single representation.

For each identified representation a determination may be made as to whether attribution information is to be obtained. In some implementations attribution information may be obtained for all representations. In other implementations attribution information may be obtained for any representations for which attribution information has not been previously obtained by the object management service . In still other implementations attribution information may only need to be obtained for inline linked representations. For example if a representation is inline linked from a provider that is not the presenter site it may be determined that attribution information from the provider is to be obtained. In other examples if all the representations are provided by the presenter site attribution information may be obtainable directly from the presenter site.

If it is determined that attribution information is to be obtained the provider external source of the representation is identified. To identify the provider the representation identifier e.g. URL may be obtained from the code of the presenter site and provided by the client device over the network to the object management service . The object management service may then parse the representation identifier to identify the provider. In a simple example the provider e.g. www.example.com may be identified directly in the representation identifier. However in many instances the representation identifier may reference a CDN or a cache within a CDN where a copy of the representation is delivered on behalf of the provider. In other instances the representation identifier may reference a seemingly anonymous location from which the representation is obtained.

In such instances the representation identifier may be compared to a provider list maintained by the object management service that identifies CDNs or other identifiers locations associated with various providers to determine a provider of the representation. Alternatively or in addition thereto the representation identifier may be provided to the identified CDN or other location and the identity of the provider of the representation returned. By comparing the representation identifier with a provider list a provider of a representation may be determined even though there is no apparent connection between the representation identifier and the provider.

The provider list may be established and maintained through relationships between the object management service and the various providers. For example the provider may identify to the object management service the CDNs it utilizes to deliver content and or the identifiers of other caches or delivery points that the provider uses to deliver representations. In still other implementations the provider may include a code or identifier in the locator representation identifier or within the representation itself that can be used to determine the provider.

Returning to once the provider of the representation is identified the object management service may submit a request to the identified provider for attribution information related to the representation. The request may also include a request for any supplemental information relating to the representation. In still other examples the request may also include a request for authorization to inline link to or otherwise access the representation.

In some implementations providers may offer an application programming interface API to which the request is submitted. For example the representation identifier e.g. pointer URL or other locator of the representation obtained from the presenter site may be provided to the provider s API. Generally speaking the request is a submission to the provider indicating that a representation at a presenter site has been identified the object management service believes the representation is from the provider and if the representation is from the provider to provide attribution information for the representation and or any supplemental information.

A provider upon receiving an attribution information request may identify attribution information related to the representation. Attribution information may include but is not limited to the type of representation e.g. audio video image the width height and or depth with which the representation should be presented the representation that is to be presented a thumbnail of the representation the title of the representation the representation identifier e.g. URL for the representation the identity of the author or rights holder s of the representation an identifier e.g. URL for the rights holder s web site the identity of the provider where the representation is hosted the identifier for the provider s site etc. For some forms of representations e.g. video attribution information may also specify how the representation is to be presented. Generally attribution information relates to any information about the representation the source of the representation and or how the representation is to be presented. Attribution information may be provided by the provider rights holder s other external sources and or any combination thereof

In addition to attribution information the rights holder s provider and or other external sources may also identify any supplemental information that is to be associated with the representation. As noted above supplemental information may be any additional information that may be associated with a representation. For example supplemental information such as the price for the representation or the represented object contact information location availability etc.

Once the provider has identified the attribution information related to the representation and any supplemental information a response is prepared and returned to the object management service . The response includes the attribution information and any supplemental information. In some implementations the response may also include restrictions regarding the use of the representation. For example the response may indicate restrictions as to how the representation should be used e.g. copied inline linked . Likewise the restriction may be a denial of use.

In instances where the response includes a restriction regarding the use of the representation the response may also include attribution information. The attribution information may be used to confirm that the response is from the provider and or rights holder s of the representation. In some examples a reason for the restriction may also be provided.

Upon receipt of a response from the provider the object management service provides the response or a portion thereof to the client device . In some implementations all or a portion of the attribution information and or supplemental information may be provided back to the client device. If the response is a denial the object management service notifies the client device that the representation should not be made available for use by the user. The client device then notifies the user that the representation cannot be used as requested. If a reason for the denial is provided that reason may also be provided to the client device and presented to the user. In some implementations unless the client device receives from the object management service a denial indicating that the representation should not be made available for use the client device may assume that the representation can be used as requested.

As illustrated on the presentation site any type and or quantity of representations may be provided. In this example many of the representations are images such as image representations . Representation is a video representation and representation is an audio representation. A user may interact with the presentation site in a typical fashion. If the user desires to use one of the representations such as for creating an object identifier or embedding the representation into a destination presentation site the user may select the Add It control . In other implementations the user may select a specific representation to add and the implementations described herein may be performed in the same manner for a specifically selected representation.

Returning to if the user selects the Add It control the presentation site may be processed to identify included representations identifiers for the representations. In some implementations this may be done on the client device by processing the code of the presentation site to identify the representation identifiers. In other implementations the code of the presentation site may be provided over a network to the object management service for processing to identify the representation identifiers. Once the representation identifiers are identified either by the client or the object management service they may be processed to determine the provider of each representation. Similar to identifying the representation identifiers the providers of the representations may be determined by the client device and or the object management service . For each representation a request for attribution information may be sent to the provider. This request may be provided before while or after the representation is presented to the user for possible selection and use. Additional details for identifying representation identifiers and related providers and obtaining attribution information is discussed below with respect to . Additional details for responding to an attribution information request are provided below with respect to .

As long as no denial of use is received in response to the attribution information requests the representations are presented to the user for selection. In the event a denial of use is received the representation may be removed from the possible representations available for selection by the user. For example illustrates a user interface that includes a presentation of representations to a user in response to a request to use representations from a presentation site according to an implementation. As illustrated some of the representations such as representations have received denials of use in response to an attribution information request and are therefore grayed out and not available for use by the user. In comparison representations did not receive denials of use and or received attribution information and are available for use by the user. In some implementations representations may be made available for use if attribution information is received and or if the provider of the representation is not included on the provider list or otherwise known to the object management service . In other implementations representations may be made available for use as long as a denial of use of not received in response to the attribution information request.

Representations for which a denial has been received from the provider may be grayed out as illustrated in not presented to the user for selection or otherwise identified as not available. Likewise representations that are available for use by the user are presented for display to the user for selection. In some instances as part of the process of obtaining attribution information the rights holder and or provider of the representation may provide or identify a different representation that is to be made available for use by the user. For example when a response to the attribution information request for the representation is received it may include an identification of another representation that is to be used in place of representation . In this example the representation is replaced with representation .

A user may interact with each of the representations to view attribution information and or supplemental information. Likewise in the event a representation has received a denial of use the user may be able to receive attribution information regarding the representation. For example a rights holder may deny use of the representation but may provide attribution information such as contact information for the rights holder or other information that the user can access and potentially obtain rights e.g. rent or purchase to use the representation. If a rights holder has provided a reason for denying use of the representation such information may also be provided to the user.

A user may select to use one or more of the representations. For example a user may select to add one or more of the representations to an object identifier embed one or more of the representations into another presentation page such as a blog or otherwise use the available representation.

Continuing with the above example the user selects representation for use in creating an object identifier. In response the user may be provided with an object identifier creation user interface according to an implementation as illustrated in . The object identifier creation user interface may include the representation attribution information and supplemental information returned with the attribution information response for the representation. As discussed above the attribution information may include information about the representation and or the represented object such as the representation title the size at which the representation is to be displayed the rights holder s of the representation and or object etc. In this example the representation represents an object a tennis racket that is for sale. The rights holder Good Tennis Inc. is the entity that is selling the tennis racket. The rights holder has also provided supplemental information about the object including the price availability and an additional advertising note . The attribution information and supplemental information may be updated so that each time the object identifier is viewed the current information is displayed. For example while the supplemental information currently shows an availability of 10 tennis rackets remaining it may be updated each time a racket is sold. This may be done by the provider rights holder pushing the updated information to the object management service or by the object management service polling the provider for the current supplemental information on a periodic basis and or in response to a user viewing the object identifier.

The object identifier creation user interface may also identify the presentation site from which the user selected the representation. In this example the user was viewing the presentation site http www.drgreensblog.com when they selected to use the representation . In obtaining attribution information the object management service identified www.goodtennis.com as the provider of the representation. By maintaining both the location of the provider of the representation as well as the presentation site a user viewing the object identifier can select to view either.

The object identifier creation user interface may also identify a set into which the object identifier is to be included. A user may select a different set or create a new set through use of the selection list control . Finally a user may select to add their own comment that will be included with and associated with the object identifier.

Once an object identifier has been created the user who created the object identifier or any other user who is interacting with the object management service can select to view the object identifier. In some instances the user who created the object identifier may choose not to share the object identifier with others or to share it only with other users known to or otherwise associated with the user.

In interacting with an object identifier a user may obtain additional information about the object identifier or perform any actions associated with the object identifier. For example turning to a block diagram of an example user interface identifying additional details about the object identifier created using the object identifier creation user interface according to an implementation is provided. As illustrated in the user interface the user has selected the object identifier and requested to obtain additional information about the object identifier . In this example the user interface provides additional information associated with the object identifier . The additional information for the object identifier includes the representation associated with the object identifier an identification of the creator of the object identifier John Smith and an identification from the presentation site from where the representation was obtained in this case Dr. Green s Blog. 

The attribution information and or supplemental information may also be presented as part of the object identifier . For example the title of the representation may be provided along with an identification of the provider and or rights holder of the representation and or object. The price availability and advertisement may also be included in the object identifier . In some implementations a user viewing the object identifier may select to add the object identifier to another set through selection of the add control .

In addition to providing additional information about the object represented by the object identifier the user interface may also provide a higher level overview of the set with which the object identifier is associated. For example the overview images may represent a collage of the object identifiers associated with the set that includes the object identifier .

The user interface may also identify other users of the object management service who have indicated whether they like or dislike the object identifier or commented on the object identifier. For example the Likes counter identifies that 35 other users have identified that they like the object identifier . Users may also provide comments to the object identifier using the comment control . Likewise the Onto Other Sets counter identifies that the object identifier and or the representation has been added to 12 other sets that are managed by the object management service .

The computer readable media may include non transitory computer readable storage media which may include hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks solid state drives CD ROMs DVDs read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of storage media suitable for storing electronic instructions. In addition in some implementations the computer readable media may include a transitory computer readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of computer readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals downloaded or uploaded through the Internet or other networks. Finally the order in which the operations are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described operations can be combined in any order and or in parallel to implement the process. Likewise additional or fewer operations than those described may be utilized with the various implementations described herein.

The example process begins upon receiving a request to use a representation at a presentation site. Upon receiving a request to use a representation at a presentation site a representation identifier for a representation available at the presentation site is identified as in . In some implementations representation identifiers may be identified by processing the code e.g. HTML code of the presentation site for identifiers or tags identifying the representation. For the identified representation identifier a determination is made as to whether the representation identifier corresponds with a provider as in . In some implementations determining if a representation identifier corresponds with a provider may be accomplished by determining if a provider is identified in the representation identifier directly. For example if the representation identifier does not include a locator for the provider of the representation it may be determined that the provider of the representation is the same as the provider of the presentation site. In another example if the representation identifier does not include a locator for the provider of the representation the code of the presentation site may be further processed to determine if there is a base locator that identifies a provider for any representation identifiers that don t otherwise identify a provider. As still another example the locator may identify the provider directly.

In other implementations determining if a representation identifier corresponds with a provider may be determined by comparing the representation identifier or a portion thereof with a provider list. A provider list may maintain locators or identifiers that if matched with the representation identifier can be used to identify the provider of the representation. For example if the representation identifier includes http www.xyz1234static5.com picture.jpg a seemingly random representation identifier it may be compared to a provider list to determine if any provider has identified an association with http www.xyz1234static5.com. For example PhotoStore Inc. www.photostore.com may have previously identified that they provide images from a location with an address of http www.xyz1234static5.com. If a match is found the associated provider is determined to be the provider of the representation.

In still other implementations a code may be included in the representation identifier that may be matched with a code identified in the provider list and used to identify the provider. For example the representation identifier http www.CDNGlobal1234.com a9546831.photo.jpg may be processed and determined that a9546831 is a code included in the representation identifier that is associated in the provider list with a provider. As still another example if examination of the representation identifier identifies a CDN the representation identifier may be provided to the CDN with a request that the CDN identify the provider of the representation. The CDN in response may identify the provider for which they are delivering representations.

If it is determined that the representation identifier corresponds with a provider an attribution information request is submitted to the identified provider as in . In some implementations the attribution information request may be submitted to an API of the provider. The attribution information request may include the representation identifier or a portion thereof. In other implementations additional information such as the identity of the presentation site may also be included. If it is determined that the representation does not correspond with a provider the representation may be provided to the user as in .

After submitting the attribution information request a determination is made as to whether a denial of use response or unknown representation response was received from the provider as in . If it is determined that the received response is a denial or unknown representation response a determination may be made as to whether the attribution information included with the denial and or unknown representation response verifies that the response is from the provider and or rights holder s of the representation. If the attribution information is not verified and or if the response is an unknown response i.e. the provider has indicated that they are not the provider of the representation the example process may return to block and continue until the appropriate provider is identified.

However if it is determined at decision block that the response is a denial and the corresponding attribution information verifies that the response is from the provider and or rights holder s the representation is not provided to the user as in . In some implementations the user may receive a communication indicating that the representation is not available for use. In other implementations the representation may be removed and not presented to the user for selection. In still other implementations the representation may be presented in a grayed out manner along with an indication that it is not available for use. In some implementations the provider and or rights holder may also provide a reason as to why the representation is not available for use.

Returning to decision block as long as a denial and or unknown response is not received or included in an attribution information response the representation is presented to the user for selection as in . In some implementations if attribution information and or supplemental is received some or all of the attribution information and or supplemental information may be provided to the user. Likewise if a restriction is provided with the attribution information response such restrictions may be applied to the use of the representation. In some implementations the attribution information and or supplemental information may be provided with the representation. In other implementations the attribution information and or supplemental information may only be provided to the user if the user selects to use the representation.

Turning to decision block the example process may determine whether there are additional representations available at the presentation site. If it is determined that additional representations remain the example process returns to block and continues. If no additional representations remain the example process completes as in .

While the example process is illustrated as obtaining attribution information for representations in a sequential manner in other implementations the example process may be performed on multiple representations in parallel. Likewise while the example process illustrates that representations are provided to the user after a response to an attribution information request has been received in other implementations the representations may be provided to the user at the beginning of the example process . In such an implementation the representations may be initially provided for selection by the user and for any in which a denial is received they may be removed from the representations available for selection by the user.

If the received representation identifier is known attribution information for the representation is obtained as in . As discussed above attribution information may be any information regarding the representation and or the represented object as well as information regarding the display of the representation. For example the attribution information may include the title of the representation the identification of the rights holder s the identification of the provider the size of the representation a representation that is to be used etc. Supplemental information may also be obtained and associated with the attribution information for the representation as in . As discussed above supplemental information may be any additional information that is to be associated with the representation. Supplemental information may include but is not limited to pricing information for the representation and or the object location of the rights holder s advertisements actions e.g. purchase control button availability information etc. Supplemental information may be provided by the rights holder s the provider and or other external sources.

In addition to obtaining attribution information and supplemental information a determination may be made as to whether there are any restrictions regarding the use of the representation as in . Any use restrictions may be obtained as in . For example a rights holder may deny use of the representation reject inline linking to the representation reject copying of the representation etc. Likewise providers may restrict how representations may be used. For example a provider may not allow inline linking to a representation. Thus even if the rights holder s is willing to provide inline linking to the representation the provider of the representation may limit that use.

Once the attribution information and any supplemental information have been obtained a response is prepared and provided that includes the attribution information and any supplemental information as in . If a use restriction has been identified and obtained such a restriction may also be included in the response.

In order to provide the various functionality described herein illustrates an example set of basic components of a client device such as the client device described with respect to and discussed herein. In this example the device includes at least one central processor for executing instructions that can be stored in at least one memory device or element . As would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art the device can include many types of memory data storage or computer readable storage media such as a first data storage for program instruction for execution by the processor . Removable storage memory can be available for sharing information with other devices etc. The device typically will include some type of display such as a touch based display electronic ink e ink organic light emitting diode OLED or liquid crystal display LCD .

As discussed the device in many implementations will include at least one image capture element such as one or more cameras that are able to image objects in the vicinity of the device. An image capture element can include or be based at least in part upon any appropriate technology such as a CCD or CMOS image capture element having a determined resolution focal range viewable area and capture rate. The device can include at least one add representation component for performing the process of obtaining attribution information for a representation and or interacting with the object management service as part of the process of creating an object identifier and or otherwise utilizing a representation. For example the client device may be in constant or intermittent communication with the object management service and may exchange information such as representations representation identifiers descriptions provider information etc. with the object management service as part of the process for obtaining attribution information for a representation and or creating an object identifier.

The device may also include an object set management component that stores and manages information about existing object identifiers and or sets created by or otherwise associated with the user of the client device. Storing and maintaining such information on the device provides the ability for a user to interact with and use many of the various implementations discussed herein even in the event the client device cannot communicate with the object management service .

The device also can include at least one location element such as GPS NFC location tracking or Wi Fi location monitoring. Location information obtained by the location element may be used with the various implementations discussed herein to identify the location of the user source location object location and the like and support the creation modification and or management of sets and or object identifiers.

The example client device may also include at least one additional input device able to receive conventional input from a user. This conventional input can include for example a push button touch pad touch based display wheel joystick keyboard mouse trackball keypad or any other such device or element whereby a user can input a command to the device. These I O devices could be connected by a wireless infrared Bluetooth or other link as well in some implementations. In some implementations however such a device might not include any buttons at all and might be controlled only through touch e.g. touch based display audio e.g. spoken commands or a combination thereof.

The video display adapter provides display signals to a local display not shown in permitting an operator of the server system to monitor and configure operation of the server system . The input output interface likewise communicates with external input output devices not shown in such as a mouse keyboard scanner or other input and output devices that can be operated by an operator of the server system . The network interface includes hardware software or any combination thereof to communicate with other computing devices. For example the network interface may be configured to provide communications between the server system and other computing devices such as the client device via the network as shown in .

The memory generally comprises random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory and or other volatile or permanent memory. The memory is shown storing an operating system for controlling the operation of the server system . A binary input output system BIOS for controlling the low level operation of the server system is also stored in the memory .

The memory additionally stores program code and data for providing network services that allow client devices and external sources to exchange information and data files with the server system and or the object management service . Accordingly the memory may store a browser application . The browser application comprises computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor generate or otherwise obtain configurable markup documents such as Web pages. The browser application communicates with a data store manager application to facilitate data exchange and mapping between the mappings data store the object identifier data store the set data store the source data store the user profile data store and or the representations data store client devices such as the client device shown in and or external sources such as the external sources shown in .

As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The server system can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data stores as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device the external sources and or the object management service . The server system provides access control services in cooperation with the data stores and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio video and or object identifier or set related information e.g. representations context descriptions mappings analytics about user interfaces to be transferred to the client device or external sources .

The data stores can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data stores illustrated include mechanisms for storing content user information mappings and external source information representations which can be used to generate and deliver content to client devices and or external sources e.g. sets object identifiers representations and control actions to be performed.

It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may be stored in the data stores such as access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms of any of the data stores . The data stores are operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the server system and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example provider might respond to an attribution information request for a representation and provide attribution information for the representation. In this case the representations data store might be accessed and the representation and the attribution information stored therein or otherwise associated. The information can then be returned to the user such as in user interface delivered to a client device that the user is able to view.

The memory may also include the object management service discussed above. The object management service may be executable by the processor to implement one or more of the functions of the server system . In one implementation the object management service may represent instructions embodied in one or more software programs stored in the memory . In another implementation the object management service can represent hardware software instructions or a combination thereof.

The server system in one implementation is a distributed environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims.

