---

title: Delivering electronic content
abstract: Delivering electronic content includes providing instructions that might cause a computer to collect information including a network address and transmitting the collected information to a receiving computer. The computer that receives the transmitted information selects electronic content based on the received information and sends the selected electronic content to the network address included in the received information. Access to the electronic content might be selectively granted based on criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094479&OS=09094479&RS=09094479
owner: Digital Reg of Texas, LLC
number: 09094479
owner_city: Tucson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130207
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 300 206 filed Nov. 18 2011 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 396 933 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 484 695 filed Jun. 15 2009 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 086 746 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 889 610 filed Aug. 15 2007 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 562 150 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 412 827 filed Apr. 28 2006 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 272 655 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 231 714 filed Jan. 15 1999 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 127 515 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The Internet offers a tremendous amount of information on a wide range of subjects. Many businesses and organizations offer world wide web sites that promote products offer technical assistance and provide other useful information. Search engines e.g. Yahoo typically can provide lengthy lists of sites related to any topic of interest. Users typically do not want to take the time to investigate more than a handful of these sites. As a result the vast number of web sites makes it difficult for web site providers to lure Internet users to their respective sites.

Since the inception of the web web pages have featured links to other sites. A link can appear as underlined text e.g. please visit deskgate as a picture or as a sequence of images. Each link has an associated URL universal resource locator that identifies a web site. A link can be programmed to transport a user to a link s associated URL when a user selects the link e.g. by clicking a mouse button .

To attract users to a site some businesses rent space on other web pages. For example as shown in a newspaper web page includes a variety of links to other sites. As shown the web page includes a banner i.e. a picture link in the shape of a banner linked to a resort s web site. By selecting the link the user is transported to the resort s web page as shown in .

In general in one aspect a method of delivering electronic content includes providing instructions that cause a first computer to collect information including an e mail address and transmitting the collected information to a second computer. The second computer processes the transmitted information by selecting electronic content for transmission to the e mail address and e mailing the selected electronic content.

Embodiments may include one or more of the following. The instructions can be web page instructions such as HTML. The instructions can be of a form. The instructions can collect the information by querying the computer or by receiving user input. The information can include demographic information and or system information.

The processing can be done by a program such as a script e.g. a CGI script . A URL universal resource locator displayed at a browser using the instructions may not be altered by the transmitting of the collected information. The processing can select electronic content based on the transmitted information. The electronic content can include text graphics audio video and or executable instructions.

The information transmitted can include identification of the instructions that transmitted the information and or identification of a site that transmitted the information.

In general in another aspect a method of delivering electronic content includes providing web page form instructions that cause a first computer to interactively collect an e mail address from a user and transmit information including the collected address information to a second computer. The method further includes processing the transmitted information at the second computer by using the transmitted information to select electronic content and e mailing the selected electronic content to the transmitted e mail address.

In general in another aspect a method of delivering electronic content includes storing electronic content corresponding to different sets of instructions receiving a request for electronic content produced by one of the sets of instructions the request including a network address and selecting electronic content from the stored electronic content based on the received request. The selected electronic content is transmitted to the network address included in the request.

In general in another aspect a computer implemented method of providing access to electronic content includes displaying in a browser a web page that includes a link corresponding to electronic content and in response to a user s selection of the link collecting information without modifying the web page displayed in the browser. The collected information is transmitted to a remote server and electronic content from the remote server is sent to the e mail address based on the collected information.

In general in another aspect a computer program disposed on a computer readable medium includes instructions for causing a first computer s processor to receive information collected by instructions at a second computer and based on the received information select electronic content and transmit the electronic content to an e mail address included in the received information.

Advantages may include one or more of the following. By linking an e mail based electronic content delivery system to a web page businesses can enjoy the benefits of reaching web surfers without the cost and or computer resources needed to maintain a web site. Linking in this manner also provides Internet users with the ability to get more information about a topic without leaving a web page and without waiting for graphics and other information to be transmitted to their browser. A business providing electronic content can not only receive demographic data describing interested users but also can determine which web pages are most effective in producing requests for information.

Other advantages of the invention will become apparent in view of the following description including the figures and the claims.

Referring to a web page viewed by a network browser e.g. Netscapep Navigator uses text and graphics to present information to a user. As shown the text and graphics include information related to a business enterprise. The web page also includes a form that accepts user input. As shown the form includes a text entry control and a submit button . The form also provides a graphic image designed to attract attention. As shown the form assumes the shape traditionally associated with banner links e.g. a bordered rectangle but other shapes or formats could be used. The banner shape can communicate to a user that the form is associated with a web site other than the site the user is currently visiting. The form can include other user input controls not shown for example checkboxes that identify different areas of interest e.g. send me information on golf clubs and send me information on golf vacations .

Unlike a conventional banner link interaction with the form does not transport the user to a different web site. Instead submitting entered information into the form e.g. by typing information into the text box and then clicking the submit button transmits the information entered by the user to a remote web server without changing the current URL being displayed by the browser. The remote web server uses the transmitted information to select and deliver electronic content e.g. text graphics audio video and executable instructions via e mail. Co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 199 150 entitled Tracking Electronic Content filed Nov. 24 1998 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 751 670 describes an electronic content delivery system and is incorporated by reference.

Referring to as shown a user has entered a network e mail address into the text field and clicked the submit button . This action initiates transmission of the entered information to the remote web server. After submitting the information a window appears informing a user that the information has been transmitted. The feedback provided by the window prevents users from making repeated submissions in the mistaken belief their request failed.

Referring to a network browser constructs a web page s appearance from web page instructions . These instructions can be expressed in HTML Hypertext Markup Language Java or other formats. When a user visits a web page the instructions for the page are transmitted to the user s computer for processing by the user s browser. The instructions describe the appearance and behavior of web page elements. For example the instructions describe the form the graphic image the text control and submit button . The instructions include instructions for transmitting collected information to the remote web server for processing. As shown the instructions identify a program at a remote web server and specify values for different parameters . The remote server program processes the parameters to select electronic content to deliver to a specified e mail address . As shown the program is a CGI Common Gateway Interface script however programs written in other programming languages can also process the collected information e.g. a Perl script or a Java or C program .

As shown the instructions transmit the e mail address interactively collected from a user and an identification of the electronic content to deliver to the e mail address specified . Instead of hard coding the content to deliver the instructions can transmit an I.D. that identifies electronic content to transmit. For example different I.D.s can be assigned to different sets of instructions . That is an I.D. for the golf promotion form may be 001 while the I.D. for a car promotion form may be 002 . Though the same instructions can be incorporated into different web pages the remote server can use the I.D. to select the electronic content to transmit e.g. information on the golf or car promotion . By using an I.D. instead of hard coding a reference to electronic content electronic content transmitted to a user can be easily altered.

The instructions can be copied into different web pages to reach more web users. To identify the site that produced a request for electronic content the instructions can transmit a site identification token of the site transmitting the information. This information can be hard coded as shown or dynamically determined by interacting with a browser s API Application Programming Interface . By transmitting the site token the remote web server can identify which web pages produced the most number of requests for content.

The instructions can be configured to interactively collect a wide variety of information from a user in addition to an e mail address. Such information can include demographic information e.g. name address and age or information describing a user s interests. The electronic content transmitted by the remote server can be selected based on this information.

Additionally the instructions can dynamically access a body of information stored for example on the user s computer and then transmit that information to the remote web server. For example the instructions can access a Windows registry on the user s computer to collect user and system information relating to the computer executing the instructions.

Though the instructions shown produce a form the instructions that collect an e mail message by querying a user s computer e.g. by accessing the Windows registry could instead present a simple picture or text e.g. Click here for e mail information on golf . When a user clicks on the picture or text the instructions dynamically collect the user s e mail address and other information from the system and transmit the collected information to the remote server without requiring any data entry by the user.

Referring to a remote web server delivers electronic content based on a user s interaction with a web page . As shown in a user s computer runs browser software . When the user navigates e.g. by following a link or entering a URL to a web site the web server for that web site transmits web page instructions to the user s computer . The user s browser processes the web page instructions for display as shown in .

Referring to the web page includes instructions for collecting and transmitting information to the remote server . When a user submits a request for electronic content e.g. clicking the submit button the information collected from a user and or system is transmitted to the remote web server . As described above the information includes an e mail address and can include other information such as an I.D. and or the address of the site producing the request .

Referring to the remote web server includes a program for processing the transmitted information . The program can be a CGI script or alternatively a Perl Java or C program. The remote web server also stores electronic content for transmission to a requesting user. The remote web server also may include a table that stores the electronic content that should be sent in response to an I.D. included received information. The remote web server selects and transmits the electronic content via e mail to the e mail address specified in the received information .

The remote web server produces reports based on requests that indicate which addresses received content which web pages produced content requests and demographic information describing the user s requesting information. Thus businesses can closely track their efforts at reaching users.

The remote web server can store electronic content corresponding to any number of different sets of instructions e.g. different forms . Thus a single web server can provide electronic content delivery for a large number of different businesses or organizations. Processing requests for content typically consumes considerable computational resources on the processing computer. In addition storing the content typically requires a large volume of non volatile storage. By letting a remote web server dedicated to processing requests handle delivery and storage of content the computers associated with the various enterprises will not be slowed or otherwise burdened by the processing of requests during business hours.

Referring to the electronic content may include electronic content such as text graphics audio video and or executable files. Electronic content may also include notification instructions that may be executable instructions that collect and transmit notification information. The notification instructions may be configured to control access to the electronic content . Further different electronic content may use different file formats. When executed notification instructions can determine whether a previous attempt to access the electronic content resulted in success e.g. successful transmission of notification information or receipt of an access granting message . The notification instructions may interactively collect notification information from a recipient. The notification instructions may interactively collect notification information from a recipient. The notification instructions may also collect information by querying the recipient s computer system.

Referring to the program running on the remote web server processes information to select and e mail electronic content to a specified e mail address. After receiving a request for electronic content the program may repress transmission of information to a user s browser e.g. for example by issuing an echo status 202 No Response command . This command prevents a user s display from being altered.

The program can use the I.D. to determine which electronic content to send to a specified address . The program can also analyze demographic data included in the received information to select electronic content for delivery. After selecting the electronic content the program can e mail the determined content to the e mail address specified in the request .

Referring to a computer platform includes a monitor input devices such as a keyboard and mouse and a digital computer . The digital computer includes memory a processor a mass storage device e.g. a hard disk and a network connection for transmitting and receiving data. The mass storage device includes instructions for an operating system e.g. Windows 98 distribution software and electronic content . These instructions can be stored in other computer readable mediums such as a floppy disk a CD ROM drive or other hardware such as an EPROM . In the course of operation the stored instructions are transferred to memory and the processor for execution.

The techniques described here are not limited to any particular hardware or software configuration. The techniques may be implemented in hardware or software or a combination of the two. Preferably the techniques are implemented in computer programs executing on programmable computers that each include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and one or more output devices. Program code is applied to data entered using the input device to perform the functions described and to generate output information. The output information is applied to one or more output devices.

Each program is preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the programs can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language.

Each such computer program is preferably stored on a storage medium or device e.g. CD ROM hard disk or magnetic diskette that is readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer for configuring and operating the computer when the storage medium or device is read by the computer to perform the procedures described in this document. The system may also be considered to be implemented as a computer readable storage medium configured with a computer program where the storage medium so configured causes a computer to operate in a specific and predefined manner.

