---

title: Method and system for sampling and separating submicron-sized particles based on density and/or size to detect the presence of a particular agent
abstract: A system for sampling and separating submicron-sized particles to detect the presence of an agent such as viruses in an environmental sample, which includes collecting means for collecting a sample suspected of containing submicron-sized particles from the environment, size separation means receiving the submicron-sized particles from the collecting means for separating the submicron-sized particles based on size into at least one size range, and a microscale particle counter adapted for counting the size separated submicron-sized particles received from the size separation means. The particle counter includes at least one cantilever each corresponding to submicron-sized particles of a particular size range, wherein the cantilever is deflectable from a first to a second position to permit passage of the submicron-sized particle therethrough, and wherein the corresponding deflection of the cantilever generates a count signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09651462&OS=09651462&RS=09651462
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09651462
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130829
---
This application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 12 435 477 filed on May 5 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 524 482 which is commonly assigned.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government. The present invention is related to U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 051 189 6 485 686 6 491 872 and 7 250 138 each assigned to the United States Government and is incorporated herein by reference to the extent they do not conflict herewith.

The present invention relates to fluid sample testing and more particularly to system and methods for sampling and separating submicron sized particles based on density and or size to detect the presence of a particular agent such as for example viruses in an environmental sample.

Viruses are considered to be among the smallest particles known to man. Viruses are about a hundred times smaller than bacteria and make up a group of submicroscopic infectious agents that are unable to grow or reproduce outside of a host cell. Certain viruses can cause harm or death in their infected host. Because of their small size viruses are extremely difficult to detect and characterize. Detection and identification of viruses have been a complicated process in any given environment especially under combat conditions where pathogenic viruses can be used in biological warfare BW . Devices are needed which enable detection of remote dispersal of BW agents in a field environment for early warning capabilities.

Rapid detection and warning are essential for providing protection of civilians and soldiers from a BW attack. Previous known methods utilizing biochemical reagents such as multiplex polymerase chain reaction PCR low stringency nucleic acid hybridization and polyclonal antibodies are often impractical in the field. Polymerase chain reaction is used to detect the presence of a specific genetic sequence while antibody based methods detect specific antigens. Both methods work well when testing for known viruses for which genetic primers or antibodies have been developed. Such methods are expensive and typically require time and intensive labor for proper implementation while providing limited detection capabilities restricted to only certain BW agents.

Biochemical reagent based methods are often hampered by high frequency of false positives under both laboratory and field conditions. The PCR and antibody based methods require a single test per virus and often one test per strain of virus. This limits their capacity to monitor and screen all strains of pathogenic viruses in a cost effective manner. Furthermore these methods cannot actively adapt to rapid mutation of viruses or emergence of new unknown viruses thus failing to provide broad detection of all viruses regardless of identity known or unknown sequenced or un sequenced.

As set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 051 189 6 485 686 6 491 872 and 7 250 138 assigned to the U.S. Government viruses may be detected in an environment without reliance on biochemical means by capitalizing on the physical properties of size and density. Suspected viruses can be quickly extracted and detected from an environmental sample through isolation of particles based on sizes and densities which closely match with those of viral agents. Purification processes can also be used to further concentrate suspected particles to the extent necessary to overcome background contamination. In this manner reliable and rapid detection of potentially dangerous viruses can be effectively achieved.

This is accomplished through the use of centrifugal techniques which sorts submicron sized particles according to density and differential mobility analysis which sorts submicron sized particles according to size. Once isolated and sorted particles with sizes as small as 2 to 3 nanometers can be detected and counted using a condensation nucleus counter. In this device a liquid such as butyl alcohol is condensed on the particles so they grow to a diameter of about a micrometer. They are then large enough to scatter an appreciable amount of light. By passing these particles through a beam of light flashes of light are produced. The resulting flashes can be detected and counted to determine the concentration of particles in the flow from the differential mobility analyzer.

In this manner the resulting particles having a particular density and size matching a particular agent such as viruses are effectively isolated and detected in the sample. The strength of such technology is the capability to detect any virus in a single relatively straightforward test while providing useful quantitative results. Such systems however remain large and bulky and require a substantial amount of time to implement. In addition the use of condensation nucleus counters often adversely alters the extracted particles in a manner which render them of limited usefulness for further testing.

Accordingly there is a need to develop a system and method for sampling and separating submicron sized particles based on density and or size to detect the presence of a particular agent such as for example viruses in an environmental sample that is substantially compact lightweight cost effective and simple to implement while enhancing accuracy and reducing false positives. There is a need to develop a system or method for detecting the presence of a particular agent in the environment that enhances constant real time monitoring with minimal preparation and setup. There is a further need to develop a system and method that does not adversely affect or alter the particular agent upon isolation and detection in a manner which hinders further testing or confirmation.

The present invention relates generally to a system and method for sampling and separating submicron sized particles based on density and or size to detect the presence of a particular agent such as for example viruses in an environmental sample. Generally the system of the present invention includes collecting means for collecting a sample from the environment size separation means receiving the sample from the collecting means for separating or isolating submicron sized particles in the sample based on size and detection means for detecting particular agents which may be present among the isolated submicron sized particles. The system and method of the present invention is capable of sampling and separating submicron sized particles in the size range of from about 5 to 1000 nanometers. The system of the present invention can further include density separation means receiving the sample from the collecting means for separating or isolating the submicron sized particles based on density as a function of the density gradient. Automated control means can be utilized to control the flow of the sample through the system.

The size separation means generally includes a microscale compact field charger for placing a surface charge on the submicron sized particles and a microscale differential mobility classifier for separating the submicron sized particles based on size as a function of the electrical mobility. The size separation means can further include a filter apparatus for filtering the environmental sample to purify and concentrate the submicron sized particles. The detection means generally includes a microscale particle counter adapted for counting the size separated submicron sized particles received from the size separation means.

The collecting means include a collector which is adapted to collect fluid samples including liquid and air samples. The collector includes a liquid scrubber for scrubbing a fluid sample of aerosol and gaseous materials containing the submicron sized particles. The collecting means is intended to collect a sample containing submicron sized particles which may include viruses prions macromolecules proteins and satellites viral subunits viral cores of delipidated viruses plant viruses and other chemical and biological materials such as nanometer size portions of bacteria.

The method for detecting the presence of submicron sized particles in a sample taken from the environment includes the steps of collecting a sample suspected of containing submicron sized particles from the environment separating by size the submicron sized particles in the sample and counting the size separated submicron sized particles via a microscale particle counter comprising at least one cantilever each corresponding to submicron sized particles of a particular size range the cantilever being deflectable from a first to a second position to permit passage of the submicron sized particle therethrough wherein the corresponding deflection of the cantilever generates a count signal.

In one aspect of the present invention there is provided a system for sampling and separating submicron sized particles to detect the presence of an agent such as viruses in an environmental sample where the system includes 

collecting means for collecting a sample suspected of containing submicron sized particles from the environment 

size separation means receiving the submicron sized particles from the collecting means for separating the submicron sized particles based on size into at least one size range and

a microscale particle counter adapted for counting the size separated submicron sized particles received from the size separation means the particle counter comprising at least one cantilever each corresponding to submicron sized particles of a particular size range the cantilever being deflectable from a first to a second position to permit passage of the submicron sized particle therethrough wherein the corresponding deflection of the cantilever generates a count signal.

In another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for sampling and separating submicron sized particles to detect the presence of an agent such as viruses in an environmental sample where the method include the steps of 

counting the separated submicron sized particles according to size via a microscale particle counter comprising at least one cantilever each corresponding to submicron sized particles of a particular size range the cantilever being deflectable from a first to a second position to permit passage of the submicron sized particle therethrough wherein the corresponding deflection of the cantilever generates a count signal.

Accordingly an object of the present invention is to detect known and unknown or submicron sized particles.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method and apparatus for the efficient and rapid detection and identification of submicron sized particles based on the physical characteristics of the particles.

A further object of the present invention is to provide an automated system for the detection and identification of submicron sized particles.

These together with still other objects of the invention along with the various features which characterize the invention are pointed out with particularity in the appended claims.

The present invention relates generally to a system and method for sampling and separating submicron sized particles based on density and or size to detect the presence of a particular agent such as for example viruses in an environmental sample. In particular the method and system allows for the collection concentration purification and detection of viruses that are pathogenic to humans. Generally the system of the present invention includes collecting means for collecting a sample from the environment size separation means receiving the sample from the collecting means for separating or isolating submicron sized particles in the sample based on size and detection means for detecting particular agents which may be present among the isolated submicron sized particles. The system and method of the present invention is capable of sampling and separating submicron sized particles in the size range of from about 5 to 1000 nanometers.

The system of the present invention can further include density separation means receiving the sample from the collecting means for separating or isolating the submicron sized particles based on density as a function of the density gradient. Automated control means can be utilized to control the flow of the sample through the system.

The size separation means generally includes a microscale compact field charger for placing a surface charge on the submicron sized particles and a microscale differential mobility classifier for separating the submicron sized particles based on size as a function of the electrical mobility. The size separation means can further include a filter apparatus for filtering the environmental sample to purify and concentrate the submicron sized particles. The detection means generally includes a microscale particle counter adapted for counting the size separated submicron sized particles received from the size separation means. The incorporation of the microscale compact field charger microscale differential mobility classifier and microscale particle counter of the present invention greatly reduces the size and weight of the present system and lessens the time for implementing the detection process.

In one embodiment of the present invention there is provided a system for sampling and separating submicron sized particles to detect the presence of an agent such as viruses in an environmental sample. The system comprises collecting means for collecting a sample suspected of containing submicron sized particles from the environment size separation means receiving the submicron sized particles from the collecting means for separating the submicron sized particles based on size into at least one size range and a microscale particle counter. The microscale particle counter is adapted for counting the size separated submicron sized particles received from the size separation means. The microscale particle counter comprises at least one cantilever each corresponding to submicron sized particles of a particular size range. The cantilever is configured to be deflectable from a first to a second position to permit passage of the submicron sized particle therethrough wherein the corresponding deflection of the cantilever generates a count signal.

As used herein the term microscale is intended to refer generally to components on the scale of from about 1 to 100 micrometers in size and devices generally at least 20 micrometers including but not limited to microelectromechanical systems MEMS . Such microscale devices can be fabricated using modified semiconductor fabrication technologies including but not limited to molding and plating wet etching KOH TMAH dry etching such as reactive ion etching RIE and deep reactive ion etching DRIE xenon difluoride etching electro discharge machining EDM and other technologies capable of manufacturing very small devices as known in the art.

With reference to there is shown a system identified by reference numeral in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The system includes generally a sample collection section adapted for collecting and processing a sample containing submicron sized particles from an environment a sample separation section adapted for receiving the sample from the sample collection section to separate the submicron sized particles based on physical characteristics such as size and density and a sample detection section adapted for receiving the separated submicron sized particles corresponding to the size and or density of particular agents of interest from the sample separation section to detect the presence of the particular agents of interest. The system further includes a computer controller and analyzer to provide automated control of the flow of sample and implement the data analysis collected from the sample detection section .

Referring to the sample separation section includes a microscale compact field charger or unipolar aerosol charger adapted for placing a charge on the submicron sized particles. Referring to the charging efficiency of the compact field charger identified as Disk EAA charger is shown. A ten fold increase in efficiency is achieved relative to isotope diffusion charging i.e. Bipolar Fuchs . Advances in materials and geometry of the discharge electrodes allow the microscale compact field charger to operate at modest voltages of about 40V max. A suitable example of the microscale compact field charger is a corona discharge based unipolar mini charger or a unipolar corona discharge ionizer.

Referring back to the sample separation section further includes a microscale differential mobility classifier adapted for receiving the charged submicron sized particles from the compact field charger and separating the submicron sized particles based on size as a function of the electrical mobility as will be further discussed hereinafter. The differential mobility classifier can be tuned to a specific size range with the collected sample material representing a portion of the total particle population.

The total volume of the microscale differential mobility classifier is about 3 cm. The characteristic cutoff curves displaying the percent penetration versus applied voltage for various particle sizes are shown in . This performance is shown in reduced coordinates of Z the particle electrical mobility in . A suitable example of the microscale differential mobility classifier is a miniaturized disk type electrostatic aerosol precipitator.

Referring back to once the submicron sized particles of a certain size of interest are isolated or separated in the sample separation section the isolated submicron sized particles are conveyed to the sample detection section comprising a microscale particle counter . The microscale particle counter is adapted to physically interact with the isolated submicron sized particles passed from the microscale differential mobility classifier . This physical interaction with the isolated submicron sized particle alters or deflects the physical structure of the microscale particle counter . From this deflection a count signal can be generated therefrom.

In one embodiment of the present invention the microscale particle counter includes one or more microscale cantilevers as shown in each corresponding to a particular size or range of sizes that can bend upon receiving thereon a load i.e. submicron sized particle . The cantilever is a beam supported at one end by a fixed point or support and can move from a first position to a second position when encountering a load or stress thereon. The cantilever can be fabricated through micromachining techniques as known in the art of semiconductor fabrication technologies from any suitable material including but not limited to silicon polymers metals and the like. Preferably the cantilever is fabricated from silicon silicon nitride or polymers. The fabrication process generally involves undercutting the cantilever structure to release it often with an anisotropic wet or dry etching technique.

The microscale cantilevers can be arranged in a spaced apart array to measure the number of submicron sized particles for a range of sizes simultaneously. The deflection of the microscale cantilever can be sensed through any means including discerning changes in the beam as it bends including but limited to arrangement in space electroresistive properties vibrational resonance properties optical properties and the like. In another embodiment of the present invention the microscale cantilever can also be further adapted to measure the mass of the submicron sized particles based on changes in natural or applied resonance frequency.

The count signal generated by the microscale particle counter is communicated to the computer controller and analyzer which is generally a personal computer loaded with a corresponding software program. The computer controller and analyzer is used to scan the differential mobility classifier through its size range and record the resulting data stream from the microscale particle counter . The isolated and counted submicron sized particles are passed from the microscale particle counter into a corresponding particle holder for subsequent testing or confirmation as will be further described hereinafter.

In a further embodiment of the present invention it is desirable to separate in the sample separation section of the sample material based on density corresponding to the particular agent in addition to separating the sample material based on size as will be further discussed hereinafter.

Referring to the system includes the sample collection section the sample separation section the sample detection section and the computer controller and analyzer . The sample collection section includes a collector for aerosol or gaseous fluid sampling. The collector is adapted to sample airborne particles in the approximate size range of from about 2 to about 10 microns and which may carry viruses and virus like particles having a size range of from about 10 to about 1000 nanometers. Normal collection rates would be from about a hundred to several thousand liters min of air. Collection of the submicron sized virus particles in the collector is facilitated by the fact that airborne viruses generally travel in or on aerosol particles which measure larger than a micron. In exceptional cases where the virus is not rafting on a supermicron fomite the danger of transmission by inhalation is generally reduced because of the distribution of submicron sized particles in the atmosphere and the difficulty in capture by the lungs.

The collector further includes a water inlet which is connected to a water source such as tap water or a water purification system. The collector scrubs the collected particles with the incoming water from the water inlet . Examples of the collector are the U.S. Army s XM2 or the SPINCON collector made by Midwest Research Institute of Kansas City Mo.

In many applications other than aerosol sampling samples which may contain viruses for example are obtained without need for what would be considered a formal collection process such as when the samples are already in the liquid form. These include for example blood samples obtained by ordinary means familiar in clinical settings as well as other body fluids such as mucus semen feces lymph saliva and the like. Also in this category are situations involving sampling of bodies of water such as municipal water supplies rivers and lakes beverages and high purity water used for microelectronics manufacture.

The collector further includes tubing which connects the collector to a holding tank containing a blender or homogenizer . The collector has an aqueous stream output on the order of 1 to 10 ml minute containing the scrubbed particles which is pumped through the tubing preferably of TEFLON or polysiloxane coated to reduce adsorptive losses. The tubing is connected to a one liter holding tank . Alternatively the tubing can be connected directly to the separation section .

In the holding tank solids in the aqueous stream are broken up by using the homogenizer or alternatively by forcing the aqueous stream through an orifice. The homogenizer has a bladed section . Surfactant or amphiphile is added at the inlet which preferably is mixed with water prior to entry into the holding tank . The surfactant or amphiphile breaks down the structures in the aqueous stream. Preferably the amphiphile has a low boiling point which allows easy removal of the amphiphile in a later stage. Most preferred the amphiphile is diethylene glycol monohexyl ether. Base is also preferably added to increase the pH of the homogenized liquid which tends to decrease aggregation. Examples of the homogenizer are the Lightnin Closed Tank Model general purpose stirrer model G2S05R available from Lightnin a unit of General Signal of Avon N.Y. Catalog No. 869435 or the PC controllable stirring motor RE162 analog ID No. 8000700 and rotor stator S 50 N W 65 SK ID No. 8005100 from IKA Works Inc. of Cincinnati Ohio which serves as part .

In leaving the holding tank the aqueous stream passes a screen filter which regulates the output of the holding tank . The screen filter is preferably 10 micron mesh and made of stainless steel or other corrosion free material. A pump which is designed for pumping liquids through the tank draws the aqueous stream from the holding tank and through the screen filter .

Beyond the pump a three position PC controlled switch is used to allow the discharge from pump to flow into a centrifuge rotor in a first position. To understand the function of the second and third positions of this switch it is necessary to realize that after centrifugation the gradient imprisoned in the rotor can be divided into two parts the useful part which contains that range or in some cases those ranges of densities in which the particles to be detected are expected to lie and the remainder which will generally be discarded and not sent on to the next stage. Thus for example in the detection of viruses pathogenic to humans this useful part could be that part of the gradient corresponding to densities of 1.175 to 1.46 g ml as discussed elsewhere herein alternatively a subset of this range could constitute the useful range if only certain viruses are being analyzed for.

Thus the second position of switch allows the useful part of the gradient to flow on to part in particular to the first position of part as discussed below and the third position of the switch allows the discarded portion of the gradient from the rotor to flow out through a port if desired port can incorporate means to recycle density gradient material if desired. In the first position as the screen filtered sample from the pump travels past the switch it enters into the sample separation section .

In the sample separation section the aqueous stream enters a liquid cooled coaxial seal . After passing the coaxial seal the aqueous stream enters at the upper shaft of the rotor . The rotor is a zonal ultracentrifuge rotor such as a Beckman s CF 32 rotor or Z 60 rotor which is inserted into and spun by a centrifuge such as a Beckman Optima XL 100K Preparative Ultracentrifuge. For large sample volumes with small quantities of viruses for example monitoring of bodies of water such as drinking water sources the present invention preferably uses continuous flow density gradient ultracentrifugation using for example the Beckman s CF 32 rotor. For other applications ordinary zonal centrifugation is preferred with rotor being a Beckman s Z 60 rotor. In a special seal and bearing assembly fluid inlet and outlet streams access an annular space between a core and rotor wall through the coaxial seal assembly and via port . Density gradient solutions sample liquid and the displacement fluid are sequentially pumped into the annular space . Density gradient solutions are loaded from port through inlet . From the pump sample liquid is added. A density gradient solution is any liquid which permit the separation of viruses such as a sucrose or preferably cesium chloride solution.

In continuous flow operation the virus containing liquid stream is pumped in from the sample collection section and flows continuously over the density gradient in the rotor and virus sediment out of the stream banding into the density gradient according to buoyant density. This pumping of sample into and out of the rotor can be performed with the centrifuge spinning at high speed. The continuous stream allows a large volume of fluid to flow through the annular space which permits virus material to be captured in the gradient even with small concentrations of viruses in the fluid.

In ordinary zonal operation not continuous flow the sample does not flow continuously into the rotor for long periods of loading but rather the entire sample volume which must be less than the annular volume in the rotor is loaded and enclosed in the rotor . The rotor volume is then closed off before acceleration to high speed. In either case this is called the loading phase of the isopycnic banding separation. After loading and centrifuging to achieve banding the virus containing bands are recovered by displacing the bands sequentially with lowest density bands exiting first and highest density last. As the density of each virus uniquely determines the position of that virus or particle in the exiting stream the timing of the detection of specific virus particles provides particle density information.

A fresh gradient is loaded into the rotor by pumping a low density fluid containing no cesium chloride into the rotor . As illustrated schematically by the presence of two fluid tanks and a mixing valve in part of a high density fluid typically containing about 60 cesium chloride is mixed with the low density fluid at a variable high low ratio which via PC control increases with time until the loading is complete. The fluids pass through the fluid entry ports at the top of the annular space . Concurrently the rotor is spinning at a low speed of about 4 000 rpm with the speed being controlled by the timer control system in tandem with the fluid entry and displacement.

After the fresh gradient is loaded the control system actuates valves which flow fluid through the rotor in the opposite direction pumping sample from the holding tank through switch in the first position through the bottom entry port and upward through the annular space entering at the bottom end and displacing fluid out at the top of the rotor through the fluid entry port and out discharge port . After establishing flow reversal the control system initiates and regulates the centrifuge to a preferred rotational speed of about 60 000 rpm for a B series rotor. In extremely dry environments water exiting the centrifuge may be recycled back into the system by pumping it back into the collector where it can be used for air scrubbing. At a rotational rate of 60 000 rpm and flow rate as high as 6 liters hr over 90 of all viruses enters the gradient from the sample fluid stream where it remains imprisoned. After on the order of 10 to 30 minutes of operation which allows as much as 3 liters of sample fluid to pass through the rotor the inflow and effluent flow are shut off and the high speed rotation continues for an additional 30 minutes to band the viruses. The viruses become banded in the gradient. The centrifuge controls are actuated by a timer regulated control system which is preferably a standard PC computer interface.

In operation sample liquid is introduced into the density gradient within the centrifuge rotor at the low density end of the gradient and each particle or molecule penetrates into the gradient at a rate that increases with the mass of the particle and with the density. In the case of a protein molecule the mass is much smaller than that of a virus by at least an order of magnitude and the density is about the same as that of a relatively low density virus. Accordingly the rate of banding for proteins is much slower than for viruses. The centrifugation is run just long enough for the smallest virus particles of interest to have enough time to band to the desired resolution in the gradient. This is typically within about 1 to 5 of the equilibrium position. The proteins will then primarily be to the low density side of their equilibrium positions as they started on that side. Since the equilibrium position of most proteins in a gradient is nominally about 1.3 g ml at the end of this shortened operating time most proteins are positioned considerably lower than 1.3. The proteins are at positions which are not collected and not sent on to the next stage as they are outside of the virus window . Accordingly the density gradient centrifugation step takes on some of the properties of a combined two stage density gradient sedimentation coefficient separation.

Once the viruses are banded the centrifuge is decelerated to low speed and the gradient is recovered by pumping the dense fluid of preferably 60 CsCl from the gradient supply system to the outer edge of the annular space through the fluid entry port . The dense fluid displaces the gradient with low density bands exiting first followed by high density bands. After gradient removal the high density material in the rotor is displaced by low density fluid which enters from the inner rim of the annular space at point and displaces the high density material from the outer edge of the annular space . The procedure is complete in a few minutes and the cycle repeats again beginning with the loading of the density gradient at low speed.

Ultracentrifugation provides the advantages of desorption of viruses from fomites and universal capture of all catalogued and non cataloged viruses with high capture efficiencies of greater than 95 . Ultracentrifugation also is not dependent on biochemical reagents and provides a high degree of virus separation from the background components. Additionally density information of the viruses is provided by the ultracentrifugation providing the y coordinate in the Virus Window plot discussed herein. The coaxial seal is commercially available as a Beckman s Zone Assembly Part No. 334241. Examples of the centrifuge rotor are the U.S. Army s B VIII B IX and B XVI or preferably the Beckman Spinco CF 32 Ti Continuous Flow Rotor or Beckman s Z 60 rotor for ordinary zonal centrifugation. For the centrifuge itself the Beckman Optima XL 100K Preparative Ultracentrifuge is well suited for all of these rotors.

The results of the extraction of the ultracentrifugation of the centrifuge rotor are analyzed from biological background by means of a Virus Window . The Virus Window is a density size r d or density sedimentation coefficient r S plot of biological components which are pathogenic to humans with the x axis showing either size d or sedimentation coefficient S and the y axis showing density r as shown in . is a table providing the densities g ml and size nm for known viral families containing species pathogenic to man. Most Mammalian viruses are approximately between 1.175 and 1.46 gm ml density and have a diameter between about 22 and 200 nanometers or alternatively rephrasing this size range with sedimentation coefficient between 120 and 6 000 Svedberg units . The Virus Window for plant viruses will be different.

The Virus Window of is an extremely useful concept not only because it shows how viruses can be separated from other non viral background but also because the different virus families are substantially separable from each other. Within the Virus Window each virus family is distinguished by a particular rectangle with little overlap between the 20 family rectangles. Accordingly with a known density and size the detected virus particle is pinpointed to its particular family in the Virus Window. In any case particles with densities and sizes that both fall in the Virus Window ranges can with high confidence be presumed to be viruses thus when counts are registered in the system of the present invention having previously been selected by centrifugation for density in the range of about 1.175 to 1.46 and further selected by the differential mobility classifier for size between about 22 and 200 nm then it can be concluded with a high degree of confidence that these indicate the presence of viruses in the sample.

Furthermore this confidence level is further increased if the density and size fall into a particular region of the Virus Window known to correspond to a virus. Similarly other particles of potential interest in detection such as prions other virus like particles and other natural or artificial particles colloids cell structures or macromolecules will frequently have unique positions in the density size plot that may allow them to be separated from other components and thereby be detected in the system of the present invention.

Although to a very large degree only pathogenic viruses fall within the Virus Window other background components fall close to the Virus Window. These components are microsomes and similar sub cellular structures. These components can be effectively eliminated by adding nonionic surfactant such as diethylene glycol monohexyl ether to the sample collection section exit stream at inlet . The surfactant solubilizes the microsomes and membrane fragments. Where recovery of viable viruses is not necessary release agents can be used. The release agents are preferably organic solvents and surfactants more preferably amphiphiles and most preferably low molecular weight amphiphiles such as diethylene glycol monohexyl ether. The release agents provide several useful effects.

First they act to break up and even dissolve cellular substructures such as microsomes ribosomes lysosomes peroxisomes and mitochondria which have sizes and densities similar to viruses and set the limit on the required resolution in the case of detection of viruses. Second upon dissolution of the lipid envelope with such agents the increase in the virus density is significant the density of the viral core which is the virus minus its lipid envelope is in general significantly higher than that of the enveloped virus . In the case of hepadnaviridae for example this may be from about 1.25 to 1.36.

Both effects serve to further differentiate viruses from particularly microsomes in the Virus Window plot the first by acting to eliminate the microsomes and the second by increasing the difference in density between the viruses and the background microsomes. Third release agents enhance the desorption of viruses from solid matter which is particularly important in the detection of airborne viruses. Release agents can also break up aggregates of viruses especially aggregates of encapsulated viruses. The present invention minimizes this aggregation problem in other ways besides the use of release agents. The centrifugation can be performed without pelleting.

Consequently buoyant density and thus isopycnic banding is not greatly affected by aggregation under these circumstances. Indeed banding times are favorably reduced in the case of aggregation and techniques can be applied that take advantage of this within the broad context of the present invention . Any aggregation will generally produce only a small shift in and or broadening of resulting virus bands. The portion of this exiting stream that contains the Virus Window is pumped to the sample separation section with the position of a particle along this stream giving the density of that particle. The useful part of the stream in the case of general virus detection where the range 1.175 to 1.46 is passed to the next stage is in the preferred embodiment on the order of about 10 ml thus this section does not effect a large increase in virus concentration though it does effect a very large increase in the concentration of viruses relative to other non viral components.

Although feasible a separate centrifugation to separate particles by sedimentation coefficient for Virus Window x coordinate information is not necessary. The differential mobility classifier DMC which is described below provides rapid analysis of particle size. Additionally separation of viruses from soluble proteins can also be done in the separation section . The centrifuge dimension and rotor speed for optimal centrifugation can be calculated. Optimal times are preferably thirty minutes or less and resolutions are preferably 0.02 density units 0.02 gm ml or better.

The sample fluid passes from the centrifuge into a filtration portion of the separation section . Typically this could be in the form of 15 pulses each on the order of 1 10 ml in volume and each corresponding to a density slice with a width on the order of 0.02 gm ml. In the filtration portion a membrane filter separates the viruses from soluble proteins removing the need for a second sedimentation rate centrifugation in the centrifuge and concentrates particles with sizes greater than the pore size into a very small volume of liquid additionally in this stage soluble salts including those from the sample as well as the density gradient material e.g. cesium chloride are greatly reduced in concentration. The membrane filter may be Millipore s VIRESOLVE Membrane an AMICON P membrane or preferably a Pall FILTRON OMEGA Series membrane with a 1 000 000 molecular weight cutoff. The water permeability of the membrane filter is on the order of 0.01 ml cm sec psi so that a membrane area of 0.1 cmyields a flux of order 6 ml min at 100 psig transmembrane pressure.

The membrane filter is incorporated into a housing which is designed to allow flow rates on the order of 0.1 to 20 ml min during filtration which results in loading of the filter with particles larger than about 15 nm which includes all virus particles after which the particles are confined within a small front face side collection volume. A small volume filtration filter holder such as Schleicher Schuell s SELECTRON is used to hold the membrane filter . More preferably a filter holder with a design like that of the SELECTRON but made out of an alternative material which does not degrade electrolytically under high voltage is used.

A four way positioner in the filtration portion allows automated processing of particles in the membrane filter . The positioner is driven by a computer controlled motor which positions the filter holder in one of four ports.

In the first position the positioner positions the membrane filter to accept the sample flow outputted from the centrifuge . Each 0.02 gm ml density slice from the output of the centrifuge is after passing through switch in the second position loaded through the membrane filter in less than about 2 minutes alternatively larger density slices can be filtered requiring appropriately longer times. A standard 0.2 micron pore size filter such as available from Corning Costar is preferably incorporated in the connection between the output from centrifuge and the input to filtration portion in order to remove any remaining particles greater than about 200 nm in size.

When the positioner is switched to the second position a valve closes off the sample flow and CsCl free water from pump out of tank which has an inlet is passed across the membrane filter using on the order of 5 ml of water with a flux time of order 1 minute. This reduces the 30 CsCl aqueous solution surrounding the particles to less than 100 ppm CsCl and allows recovery of the CsCl for recycling. Additionally the amphiphile viscosity additives and buffer components are reduced in the membrane filter . More preferably ammonium acetate solution with on the order of 20 mM concentration in water is used for this operation preparing the liquid for the downstream detection operation.

On switching the positioner to the third position the pure water or ammonium acetate solution is shut off and a final filtration is performed in order to reduce the volume of liquid on the retentate side of the membrane thereby greatly increasing the concentration of viruses and reducing the volume of liquid to the small quantities required for operation of the further size separation in the differential mobility classifier the filtrate in this step passes out through port . More precisely the filtration portion is integrated with the compact field charger by a punctured disk fitting. The fitting has a 150 micron hole drilled through a tubular stub in its center. When positioner is in the third position this hole allows the filtrate to pass out through port .

When the positioner is in the fourth position the inlet end of an electrospray capillary the end opposite the spray tip of the compact field charger is inserted into this 150 micron hole. This fits in a piston like manner into the stainless steel cylinder of the SELECTRON or SELECTRON like filter holder. The cylinder slides over the steel disk and is positioned with a gap between the steel disk and the ultrafilter surface on the order of 100 microns.

In the fourth position in accordance with the above the membrane filter is positioned for entry of the virus containing retentate into the electrospray capillary of the compact field charger . Alternatively instead of fluid passing directly from the filtration portion to the electrospray capillary an intermediate component may be used to accomplish a further purification and or concentration . A platinum wire may be run from the voltage source of the compact field charger to the interior of the liquid inside the volume on the retentate side of the membrane filter in order to establish a current return for the electrospray operation.

The compact field charger and the differential mobility classifier provide a final purification based on size of the submicron sized particles. As discussed above the size separation portion of the system includes three major components the microscale compact field charger the microscale differential mobility classifier and the microscale particle counter . The microscale compact field charger and differential mobility classifier units may be combined as a single integrated unit which can be accompanied by an IBM PC with associated software. This allows for an inexpensive set up compared to a mass spectrometer. The detection section can conduct measurements concurrently with the collector obtaining the next cycle s collection.

Passing from the filtration portion the retentate enters the size separation portion at the inlet of the electrospray capillary of the compact field charger in the fourth position of the positioner . Entry into the electrospray capillary is done without passing the retentate through piping which might cause sample losses. The electrospray capillary is on the order of 25 cm in length and the inlet of the electrospray capillary is positioned to the small front face side collection volume of the UF membrane as described above. The electrospray capillary is then positioned to sample liquid from the retentate side of the filter and the sample liquid enters the compact field charger .

In the compact field charger the liquid sample solution is passed into an orifice or jet of 50 micron diameter and droplets are ejected under the influence of an electric field. The droplets are typically between 0.1 and 0.3 microns in size with a fairly narrow size distribution. At a droplet size of 0.3 micron sampling rates are 50 nl min 50 nanoliters minute allowing the compact field charger to spray the collection volume in on the order of 20 minutes per microliter.

From the compact field charger the sample passes to a charge neutralizer . The charge on the droplets is then rapidly recovered using an ionizing atmosphere to prevent Rayleigh disintegration. The neutralized charged droplets are then dried in flight leaving the target virus molecules and or dried residue of soluble impurities. From the charge neutralizer the target virus molecules and or dried residue enter the differential mobility classifier .

The differential mobility classifier uses electrophoretic mobility of aerosol particles to classify the particles by size using the inverse relationship between the mobility of a particle to its size. In the differential mobility classifier particles are carried by an air stream at a set velocity through an electric field created by a charged rod. If the particle is singly and positively charged it experiences an electrostatic attraction to the rod which competes with the inertial force of the flow. When the electrophoretic mobility falls in a certain range the particles pass through a narrow exit port at the end of the charged rod. The particle size range which is generally 0.01 to 1 micron is divided into 147 size channels. The entire range is automatically scanned in 1 to 10 minutes generally 3 minutes. The differential classifier has only a possible 3 instrumental error for virus size determination. Additionally there is a possible size increase due to the covering of the virus particle with impurity residue which at an impurity level of 100 ppm a typical 40 nm virus has a possible error of up to about 2 in effective size. If the impurity levels are less than 20 ppm the error becomes smaller than 1 .

When the primary droplets from the compact field charger are 0.3 micron a 1 ppm soluble impurity creates a 3 nm residue particle and a 125 ppm soluble impurity creates a 15 nm particle. Particles which are 15 nm in diameter can be separated in the differential mobility classifier from viruses which are at least 22 nm in diameter. Accordingly soluble impurities must be reduced to less than 100 ppm 0.01 to avoid background interference with virus signals.

Detection of proteins at levels of 10to 10molecules ml indicates that a sensitivity level for viruses of 10 particles ml can be achieved and possibly 10particles ml particularly by combining the differential mobility classifier selection with an adjustment of the Kelvin radius of approximately 10 nm. Impurities of 1 ppm yield a 3 nm residue particle which can overlap protein sizes. Impurity levels of 100 ppm or less are acceptable in the detection of viruses since viruses are several times larger than proteins. Sensitivities of 10molecules ml and possibly 10molecules ml are projected based on documented results using proteins.

The differential mobility classifier validates against false positives by changing the dilution and seeing whether the particle size also changes. Additionally the differential mobility classifier can be used to provide another layer of protection against interference from impurities up to the 100 ppm level. The level of 10molecules ml corresponds to 2 10viruses in a 2 microliter collection volume of the filtration portion and 10molecules ml correspond to 2 10viruses. At a collection volume of 10viruses of the present invention or minutes of XM2 sampling 20 000 liters 20 m3 of air are sampled. Accordingly the sensitivity of the system of the present invention is on the order of 500 viruses per liter of air. With impurity levels of 100 ppm or less virus size can be determined by the differential mobility classifier to within about 4 . The size separation portion requires on the order of 5 to 40 minutes including the differential mobility classifier size determination and can be preformed concurrently with centrifugation for a subsequent cycle.

From the differential mobility classifier the sample draws toward the microscale particle counter forming part of the detection section . The aerosol sample sorted by the differential mobility classifier contacts the cantilever of the microscale particle counter for receiving submicron sized particles of a particular size or size range. The weight or momentum of the submicron sized particle causes the cantilever to deflect which allows the particle to pass therethrough. The deflection of the cantilever is detected and a count signal is generated therefrom. The count signal is then recorded and analyzed via the computer controller and analyzer .

The filtration portion has an output volumetric rate which is very well suited for input into the microscale compact field charger microscale differential mobility classifier and the microscale particle counter which addresses the strict requirements and narrow range of operating parameters for the overall unit. In recognizing the high value of this molecule counting and molecule sizing unit filtration provides excellent samples for the size separation portion prior to detection.

The system is controlled via the computer controller and analyzer . When data collection and instrument control are handled via the same computer the computer may vary the mode of operation in response to virus detection. Initially before viruses have been detected the system places the entire 300 ml of density gradient from the centrifuge through the membrane filter to scan all virus sizes from 22 to 200 nm. The differential mobility classifier operates to indicate the sizes of the viruses detected. The computer can then trigger the output of the centrifuge to be sampled piecewise in the filtration portion . By breaking the range of virus densities which is about 0.3 gm ml into 10 or 15 slices the density of the detected virus is within about 0.02 to 0.03 gm ml which is sufficient to narrow most viruses down to a single family. Following this the region in the centrifuge output stream surrounding this density can be divided still finer to provide better accuracy on the viral density.

Through data base comparison the system identifies the viral families from the measured densities and sizes and provides output of detected viruses by density size concentration apparent changes in concentration over time and if desired audible and or visual alarms in the presence of detected viruses. Being automated the system of the present invention can run continuously for long periods of time without an operator. In addition to making continuous virus monitoring possible at a large number of sites simultaneously without the need for scores of virologists the automation afforded by the system of the present invention also limits the risks of viral infection of technicians.

Other potential physical means of separating viruses and other particles from background and or enriching their concentration may involve capillary electrophoresis purification and concentration enrichment sedimentation rate centrifugation primarily purification hydroextraction mainly concentration dialysis purification and concentration organic inorganic flocculation purification and concentration and capillary chromatography which can size exclusion hydrophobic interaction or ion exchange chromatography purification and concentration .

Referring to a simplified representation of the microscale differential mobility classifier is shown. As discussed above the microscale compact field charger generates a single charge on each of the submicron sized particles prior to passage to the microscale differential mobility classifier . The microscale differential mobility classifier receiving the charged submicron sized particles separates the particles based on size as a function of electrical mobility. The microscale differential mobility classifier operates on the basis that larger particles require more force to deflect than smaller ones.

The microscale differential classifier includes a first inner surface a second inner surface parallel to the first inner surface a space defined by the first and second inner surfaces and with an air stream flowing therethrough and an inlet for supplying the charged submicron sized particles from the microscale compact field charger . The inlet is positioned proximate the source of the air stream and the first inner surface . The first and second inner surfaces and are charged to produce an applied electric field therebetween that causes the charged submicron sized particles downward toward the second inner surface .

As the charged submicron sized particles are introduced through the inlet they become entrained in the air stream moving horizontally from left to right. The intermediate submicron sized particles experience a greater rate of descent towards the second inner surface than the larger submicron sized particles and lesser rate of descent than the smaller submicron sized particles . In this manner the submicron sized particles are classified or segregated with each size hitting a specific location on the second inner surface . The microscale differential mobility classifier further includes at least one aperture or opening in the second inner surface that is appropriately positioned downstream from the inlet to receive submicron sized particles of a corresponding size or range of sizes.

The size of the submicron sized particles captured by the apertures can be adjusted by modulating the strength of the applied electric field . When a relatively weak electric field is applied the larger particles are able to overshoot the apertures before hitting the second inner surface . As the strength of the applied electric field is increased the smallest particles hit the second inner surface before reaching an aperture while the larger particles and travel the precise distance to fall through the apertures .

Referring to a simplified representation of the microscale differential mobility classifier integrated with the microscale particle counter is shown. The apertures in the second inner surface each include a microscale particle counter with a cantilever positioned at the corresponding aperture . The cantilever is deflectable from a first position to a second position to permit passage of the submicron sized particles through the aperture . The system further includes a particle holder for collecting the separated and counted submicron sized particles for subsequent testing or confirmation.

The corresponding deflection of the cantilever produces a count signal via a suitable deflection detection means. Such deflection detection means can include for example a laser to track the movement of the cantilevers . Alternatively the count signal can be generated based on changes in the natural resonant frequency of the cantilever when a particle lands on the cantilever . The latter method can be used for precisely measuring the weight of the particle as it passes through the aperture . Since the microscale compact field charger and the microscale differential mobility classifier are extremely small the number of particles passing through will also be small. The microscale particle counter is sufficiently sensitive to effectively detect the passing of the particles while maintaining the natural state of the particles for further testing.

The forgoing discussion discloses and describes merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from such discussion and from the accompanying claims that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

