---

title: 40 mm low drag extended range projectile
abstract: A 40 mm ammunition projectile for firing without significant spin in an M203 or an M320 grenade launcher. The ammunition includes a projectile body having hollow inner cavity therein for an explosive warhead; a projectile fin assembly; a projectile nose element having a conically shaped front area thereon; a decoupled projectile sabot in two or more joining sabot petals enclosing the body; a base cartridge case having vent holes, a bowl area for placement of a copper closure cup containing propellant therein, and a closure plug for threading into the rear of said cartridge case. The projectile fin assembly may provide a canted angle on each fin blade to (relatively very slowly) spin up the round at less than 30 Hz. Projectiles with body length less than five inches may be launched in an M203 grenade launcher while projectiles with body length up to eight inches may be launched in an M320 grenade launcher.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08887641&OS=08887641&RS=08887641
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08887641
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130207
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 599 580 filed on Feb. 16 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

Projectiles currently used for the M203 M320 include the M433 High Explosive Dual Purpose Round M406 High Explosive Round M583A1 Star Parachute Round M585 White Star Cluster Round M713 Ground Marker Round M781 Practice Round M651 CS Round and M576 Buckshot Round. The M203 is not a standalone gun. It must be attached to an M16 or M4 rifle for instance and fires a family of 40 mm low velocity projectile rounds. In order to load a 40 mm round into an M203 the forward sleeve of the gun tube is slid forward and a 40 mm round is pushed into the sleeve. The sleeve is then slid backwards and locked into position ready to fire. The barrel of the M203 is rifled which spins up the projectile as it travels down the barrel tube and the projectile leaves the gun tube with a high spin rate.

The 40 mm cartridge case is typically not reused or recycled after firing. If the cartridge case gets stuck in the gun tube there is a tool to help the war fighter push it from the tube. The M320 fires the same 40 mm low velocity ammunition as the M203. There are several improvements that the M320 has compared to the M203. The M320 has stand alone single shot capability and may be fired by the war fighter without attaching to a gun. It also has the capability to be attached to and fired from the M16 M4 rifle similarly to the M203. A major improvement of the M320 is the ability of the firing tube to open sideways. By opening sideways longer ammunition can be loaded into the M320 gun tube as compared to loading in an M203. While the approximate maximum length of the projectile is approximately five inches in the M203 projectiles several inches longer can be loaded into an M320. Both M203 and M320 have rifled barrels which induce spinning in the projectile as it travels through the gun tube.

There exists a great need to eliminate projectile spinning when fired from M203 or M320 Grenade Launcher guns. To permit increased accuracy and precision hits on targets as far range as beyond 1000 meters a goal which is sought it is necessary to provide projectile guidance navigation and or control subsystem components within the projectiles. However guidance navigation and control subsystems cannot function properly if the projectile were spinning at any appreciable revolution rate. Guided ammunition would need to have no spin or very little spin so that the seeker or camera therein e.g. can see the target clearly while in flight. The conventional M203 or M320 Grenade Launcher guns launch spinning low velocity 40 mm projectiles because the Grenade Launcher tube barrels have internal rifling intended to spin up the projectiles at approximately 1800 revolutions per second for stabilization of flight. Clearly then a way must be found to avoid this spin which is inherent in conventional M203 or M320 Grenade Launcher guns.

An entirely new projectile is presented for use in the M203 or M320 Grenade Launchers which will not be appreciably spun up by the launcher barrel rifling at all because the projectile body is decoupled from the sabot petals and the slip type obturator means the latter are the only two projectile elements which might have engaged the rifling in the Grenade Launcher tube barrel. Even if either or both of these two elements were at all spun up by the rifling they are decoupled from the projectile body and thus will not appreciably spin up the projectile body.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide means for an ammunition projectile to be launched without spin on the launched projectile in flight from a conventional M320 grenade launcher gun.

Another object of the present invention to provide means for launching a guided munition in an M320 grenade launcher gun.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide extended range for an ammunition projectile fired from an M320 grenade launcher gun through effectively providing a longer gun tube path during firing.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile for firing in either of or in both of an M203 or an M320 grenade launcher.

It is a yet further object of the present invention to provide a new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile for firing in either of or in both of an M203 or an M320 grenade launcher which will dramatically improve the range and accuracy of the fired projectile.

It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile for firing in either of or in both of an M203 or an M320 grenade launcher which will dramatically increase the velocity of the fired projectile.

It is still another object of the present invention to provide a new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile for firing in either of or in both of an M203 or an M320 grenade launcher with more lethality where the new projectile carries more energetic material or more fragmentation projectiles as cargo due to an enhanced length of the new projectile.

It is a yet further object of the present invention to provide a new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile with an improved cartridge case that can be reused again and again resulting in cost benefits with less environmental impact thereby.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here just for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The invention for example could be used on grenade launchers other than an M320 including stand alone devices to receive a grenade launcher other types of shoulder launched weapons or weapons other than grenade launchers and for ammunition other than necessarily the caliber or types shown here where the principles of the invention might be beneficially employed.

Shown in is new 40 mm low velocity ammunition for the M320 and M203 which can be fired without a sleeve to provide extended range and higher accuracy and precision on target with improved lethality. This 40 mm low drag extended range projectile has been designed to fit into the M203 and M320 low velocity guns. The length of the projectile can be varied from 4 inches up to 8 inches by changing the length of body and or possibly of the nose . This 40 mm low drag extended range projectile can be loaded into new cartridge case see or even into a 40 mm M320 full length type gun sleeve cartridge case see . Cartridge case is restricted to fit just into the smooth part of the M320 gun tube section which is encountered right before the rifled section of the gun tube barrel . Closure plug can be threaded or pressed into cartridge case . Propellant bowl area of cartridge case has a much larger volume than known used before now. Propellant bowl area has a new shape which allows for more propellant and therefore higher velocity of the projectile with efficient burn for higher velocity per pressure output. Copper closure cup see has a lip that mates with closure plug see and and prevents propellant from coming out of the cup through vent holes a possible number of vent holes could be six . This allows for the round to be rough handled without the threat of propellant being lost through vent holes which might affect velocity and pressures of the projectile. Upon firing of the propellant the copper cup will immediately melt away and the pressure of expanding gases caused by the burned propellant approximately 4000 psi e.g. will be of sufficient pressure approximately 300 psi e.g. needed to blow through vent holes and propel a round thereby. Cartridge case has been reused in government testing over at least six times. It is therefore considered a re useable part for these rounds. is an exploded view of the 40 mm low drag extended range projectile . The round is assembled as follows cup plastic composite or metal is placed on a table with the cup s open end faced up. Spacer is placed in the cup with the spacer s nipple faced up. Obturator is then also placed on cup . Fin is threaded into body . Explosive warhead liner not shown here is filled into cavity . Nose possibly containing a fuze or a stab detonator not shown here is threaded into body . Projectile assembly fin body and Nose are placed into sabot petal s as shown in cutaway drawing. Sabot s 2 or 3 petals are closed. The assembly of fin body nose sabot s is pressed into cup assembly cup spacer obturator to form the projectile assembly. The projectile assembly is then pressed into the improved new cartridge case . Break ring is optional it holds the parts of the projectile in place before ready for use and is broken off before use ordinarily but launching would break it off anyway . The projectile assembly is turned with bottom of the new cartridge case facing up. Copper closure cup is placed into bowl area of cartridge case . Propellant is added to copper closure cup and closure plug is closed. The 40 mm low drag extended range projectile is ready to be stored or fired. shows the assembled 40 mm low drag extended range projectile with the improved cartridge case ready to be loaded and fired. At the same initial service velocity approximately 78 meters second the 40 mm low drag extended range projectile flies a flatter trajectory greater distance extended range compared to conventional 40 mm low velocity projectile s . This is due to the fact that the 40 mm low drag extended range projectile discards the sabot s upon exiting the M203 or M320 tube. The projectile then has a reduced drag and better aerodynamic flight profile. This profile includes less coning reduced pitch and yaw and less velocity decay. Due to this improved cartridge case more propellant can be added and will provide extra velocity to the projectile. Testing has shown an increase in velocity from 78 meters second to 120 meters second while still being safe to fire in an M203 or M320 gun. Due to the improved aerodynamic flight profile and improved velocity the new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile will be able to accurately hit targets out to more than 500 meters compared to existing 40 mm low velocity rounds that are accurate out to just 400 meters. As was mentioned obturator is designed to decouple any appreciable obturator spin from a projectile body when fired in an M203 or M320 gun barrel notwithstanding the barrel s rifling. And as was mentioned the projectile body is also decoupled from sabot s to decouple any appreciable sabot spin from the projectile body when fired in an M203 or M320 gun barrel notwithstanding the barrel s rifling and therefore aids in the projectile not spinning after gun exist. The sabot air scoops catch the air upon gun exist and this opens the sabot s which separate from the in flight projectile which consists of the fin body and nose . The projectile fin body and nose might be only very slowly spun up less than 30 Hz spin rate by the fins where some each of the fin blades could have a cant angle of 2 degrees for example there upon a fin blade. Such a low spin rate would therefore allow guidance sensors to be used with the projectile as was mentioned which were not feasible for a high spin rate. This provides an extremely accurate projectile with extremely efficient aerodynamic properties as aforementioned. Longer body lengths can allow for more payloads and more lethality than current 40 mm ammunition. This 40 mm low drag extended range projectile can form rounds that are less than 5 inches and can be used in the M203 and rounds made up to eight inches can be used in the M320. The many benefits of the new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile according to this invention further include the following. The new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile as compared to current low velocity ammunition fired in a M203 or M320 can increase range from 400 meters to over 500 meters. The new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile can increase maximum service velocity from 78 meters second to over 120 meters second depending on quantity of propellant loaded and is safe to fire in an M203 or M320 gun. The new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile will fly a more straight trajectory compared to conventional low velocity ammunition and therefore could provide accurate lethality out to more than 500 meters compared to conventional 40 mm ammunition that is accurate only out to 350 meters. The new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile can have more lethality than current 40 mm low velocity ammunition due to the increased length of the new round and the new round also could carry more energetic material and carry more fragmentation projectiles as cargo at larger sizes lengths and calibers. The new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile can be varied in length from four inches to eight inches by changing the body length. The new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile could be fired in either an M203 at 4 5 inch length or in an M320 at 4 8 inch length . The 40 mm low drag extended range projectile could be fired in an ordinary M320 gun. The new 40 mm low drag extended range projectile is decoupled from spin in the M203 or as in the M320 by the effect of slip obturator and by the effect of body free spinning from the sabot . The new cartridge case has a copper closure cup and case base plug with a design which locks the propellant in closure cup and case base plug so that propellant cannot get into the new improved cartridge case projectile area through vent holes . The improved cartridge case holds more propellant and allows for more efficient propellant burn than a standard M203 M320 low velocity 40 mm cartridge case. Due to increased propellant and efficient burning the 40 mm low drag extended range projectile can have higher velocity and still be safe to fire in an M203 or M320. Further the improved cartridge case can be reused again and again resulting in cost benefits thereby.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

