---

title: Jumping robot
abstract: A jumping robot is provided. In another aspect, a jumping robot weighs less than 50 grams, jumps at least 20 cm high and has a maximum linear dimension of 10 cm. A further aspect provides a robot that employs an electromagnetic actuator that actuates at least two of: jumping, steering, self-righting, and/or mid-air orientation control.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09004201&OS=09004201&RS=09004201
owner: Board of Trustees of Michigan State University
number: 09004201
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 625 881 filed on Apr. 18 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with government support under CNS0721441 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Many robots with jumping ability are known. For these traditional designs jumping is accomplished by an instant release of the energy stored in the robot. As a result all the robots with jumping ability can be classified by their energy storage methods. The most popular conventional method to store the energy is based on traditional springs such as compression extension or torsion springs. One exemplary jumping robot uses a motor driven ball screw to charge and release a compression spring. In another example the energy in an extension spring is stored and released through a geared six bar mechanism. Yet a further example utilizes a slip gear system to store and release the energy in an extension spring via a four bar mechanism.

Still another conventional robot employs a planetary gear train and a one way clutch where a conical spring directly strikes the ground. Prior prototype robots employ a motor driven eccentric cam to charge a torsion or two extension springs that actuates rear legs. A wheel based stair climbing robot with soft landing ability has a jumping mechanism based on four compression springs. Another exemplary version known as the EPFL jumper can achieve a jumping height about 1.4 m with torsion springs charged and released by a motor driven cam system see Kovac M. et al. A Miniature 7 g Jumping Robot Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. 2008 at 373 378. This robot was later modified to add self recovery capability and jumping direction changing ability see Kovac M. et al. Steerable Miniature Jumping Robot Auton. Robots Vol. 28 No. 3 2010 at 295 306 and Kovac M. et al. A Miniature Jumping Robot with Self Recovery Capabilities Proc. IEEE RSJ Int. Conf. Intell. Robots Systems 2009 at 583 588. In another construction a multimodal robot can jump up to 1.7 m based on two symmetrical extension spring actuated four bar mechanisms.

A second traditional method for energy storage is based on elastic elements such as customized special springs. A scout robot employs a motor driven winch to charge a single bending plate spring and release it to directly strike the ground for jumping. A conventional compact jumping robot utilizes an elastic strip to form closed elastica which is actuated by two revolute joints. With two symmetrical power springs made of carbon fiber strips as legs another conventional microbot charges its springs with dielectric elastomer actuators. In another example known as the Jollbot a spherical structure formed by several metal semi circular hoops is used to store energy in the hoops by deforming its spherical shape. A similar conventional idea is utilized in a deformable robot but the material for hoops is replaced by shape memory alloy.

A third conventional method to store energy for jumping is based on compressed air. In this method a robot usually carries an air tank and a pneumatic cylinder. The sudden release of air in the tank will force the cylinder to extend. A traditional rescue robot and a patrol robot employ cylinder extension to strike the ground for jumping. Instead of striking the ground the jumping ability of another traditional robot known as a quadruped Airhopper is accomplished by several cylinder actuated four bar mechanisms. With a biped structure another exemplary robot different from other pneumatic based jumping robots uses several pneumatic artificial muscles for jumping.

In addition to the preceding there exist several other known devices. A pendulum jumping robot is based on the principle that momentum will be generated from swinging arms during human jumping. Furthermore a jumping robot developed by the Sandia National Labs uses the energy from hydrocarbon fuels and can achieve a significant jumping height. Another robot is based on microelectromechanical MEMS technology and has a small jumping height. Finally an additional robot uses a voice coil actuator to charge energy into an electrical capacitor instead of a mechanical structure.

It is noteworthy however that traditional jumping robots are either too heavy too expensive or too large. Furthermore most conventional robots disadvantageously require multiple actuators which quickly use considerable battery power. While such robots may be needed for space exploration their weight and size prevent them from achieving desired jumping heights and distances.

In accordance with the present invention a jumping robot is provided. In another aspect a jumping robot weighs less than 50 grams jumps at least 20 cm high and has a maximum linear dimension of 10 cm. A further aspect provides a robot that employs a single electromagnetic actuator that actuates at least two of jumping steering and or self righting. Still another aspect employs multiple jumping robots that communicate with a remote communications station and or each other either airborne or on the ground.

The present jumping robot is advantageous over traditional devices. For example the present jumping robot is light weight and of small size thereby allowing it to achieve long jumping distances or large jumping heights. Furthermore the present jumping robot is multifunctional in its movements driven by a single actuator this assists with realizing the light weight small size and low cost while requiring minor battery power such that more than 100 jumps can be made on a single battery charge. The present jumping robot is ideally suited for mass production so many of them can be used at a natural disaster site or in a war zone to locate victims or targets respectively. The low cost nature avoids the need for recovery of the robot after use while allowing for many robots to be employed at a single site. Moreover the significant jumping height allows for line of sight and or airborne sensing and communications over rubble and other ground obstacles. The height of the jump provides a greater sensing and communications coverage area as well. Additional advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description and appended claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The preferred embodiment of a jumping robot as shown in includes a body a jumping mechanism a steering and transmission mechanism a self righting mechanism and a single actuator . An accessory assembly is also mounted to body and includes solar panels for generating electricity sensors a communications transmitter and receiver an antenna a battery and a microprocessor based controller . The robot employs four mechanisms. The first one is jumping mechanism that transforms stored energy into the kinetic energy for take off. The second one is an energy or crank device that charges the energy and releases it instantly. The third one is self righting mechanism to have the robot stand up from any landing posture. The last one is steering mechanism that changes the jumping direction of robot .

Reference should be made to and . Torsion springs are used to store energy since they can be implemented in a small size and light weight they are off the shelf components which can be easily obtained at low cost and good performance can be achieved. A spring actuated six bar mechanism includes a pair of legs coupled to body by pivot pins at hip joints and to foot by pivot pins at ankle joints. Each leg is divided into two parts an upper leg or femur and a lower leg or tibia . The femur and tibia are joined at a knee joint via a pivot pin such that knee joints bend outwardly away from each other. Each pair of adjacent leg parts act as elongated links connected by articulated revolute joints and they can rotate relative to each other. Therefore jumping can be modelled by a planar parallel mechanism with foot functioning as a fixed base body as the moving platform and the two legs as kinematic chains connecting the fixed base and moving platform.

The jumping mechanism shown in is symmetric with respect to a vertical line . Six revolute joints are placed at A B C D E and F. A coordinate frame is established with an X axis along right arrow over ED and a Y axis along right arrow over 00 . The link lengths are denoted as and . 1 A vertical distance y is between AB and ED and the angle is between right arrow over AB and right arrow over BC and an angle is between right arrow over DC and X. The mechanism has three planar degrees of freedom from the Kutzbach Gr bler mobility formula. Nevertheless if eight torsion springs with spring constant k are placed at A B E and D two springs for each place then the springs can be charged to store energy if a vertical downward force F is applied at point O and the energy is released once F is removed.

For energy storage an analysis of how much force F varying with y is needed to charge the spring is as follows. Since the mechanism is symmetric with respect to OO a static analysis for one side is sufficient. Free body diagrams for links AB BC and CD are illustrated in where all the forces are decomposed along the coordinate frame axes. Note that all of the component forces along the same axis except F have the same quantity although the directions may be opposite. Fand Fdenote the same quantity along the x axis and y axis respectively. The static equations for the three links are 

where e l 4 yand l l l. In fact there are two intersection points for those two circles but the point corresponding to the configuration shown in is unique. Once yis obtained and are solved 

Based on the jumping mechanism another energy mechanism is needed to store energy in the spring and release it when necessary. Referring to FIGS. and a single direction rotation of actuator which is an electric motor is used for energy storage and release leading to a short cycle time. This can be achieved by a slip gear system an eccentric cam or a variable length crank mechanism. Preferably a one way bearing is employed. The energy mechanism shown in an intermediate position in can apply force F in and remove it instantly. A rotating link or crank arm is connected to an output shaft of a speed reduction transmission having rotating gears driven by actuator via a one way bearing therefore it can only rotate in the counterclockwise direction as illustrated. A cable or other flexible member connects the end of rotation link to the base or foot of the robot and two pulleys are used for cable guidance. When crank rotates counterclockwisely as illustrated from a bottom vertical initial position cable will be pulled up and body will be forced to move towards base or foot into a cocked and retracted position as shown in . Once crank passes a top vertical position shown in the energy will be released due to one way bearing which has internal compression spring biasing.

With such a mechanism a vertical downward force is applied for energy storage. For optimization this force is related to torque generated by a speed reduction system. This can be achieved by static analysis for crank . As can be observed in lis the length of crank lis the vertical length from the end of crank to a center of pulley and 0 is the rotation angle. Then the required torque T at angle should be equal to the torque generated by F with respect to pivot point O 

With the above two mechanisms the robot can jump if the robot initially stands with its foot on the ground. Nevertheless after the robot jumps into the air and lands on the ground this optimal orientation may not occur due to the landing impact. Therefore as illustrated in and self righting mechanism is needed to make robot recover from possible side landing orientations. The active self righting mechanism is based on two active self righting arms . The robot has a generally rectangular external shape and two side surfaces are significantly larger than the other four end top and bottom surfaces. As a result most of the time the robot will contact the ground with one of these two large surfaces after landing. Without a loss of generality a landing posture as shown in can be assumed. Self righting arms are coupled to body and nominally retracted initially parallel to the robot s two largest side surfaces . When actuated arms rotate simultaneously in opposite directions such that an end of the lower arm pushes against ground . After a certain amount of arm advancing rotation the robot can stand up and be ready for the next jump. The final position when both arms are fully extended is shown in .

The details of a driving device are shown in . Each arm is connected to body via a revolute joint . One arm has an elongated and straight groove or enclosed slot and a follower pin projects adjacent an end of the other mating arm such that pin slides along groove in a slave like manner. In this way if an upward force is applied on pin both arms will rotate but in opposite directions. A torsion spring has one end fixed to body and the other end attached to the adjacent arm . If the upward force is removed then both arms will return to their retracted original positions due to the biasing torque from the single torsion spring .

Referring now to robot applies an upward force without using another actuator. Note that body moves towards foot during the energy storage process. With this motion a protrusion upwardly projects from foot and beneath pin and the upward force will be generated once protrusion contacts pin . If the energy is released the body will move away from the foot consequently the upward force is removed when the body is a far enough distance away from the foot. Accordingly the charge of the spring and the self righting mechanism can be performed simultaneously because the motion from the charge of the spring is used for self righting. This coupling motion advantageously reduces the cycle time for jumping. Again all the motion can be advantageously accomplished with one directional rotation of single electromagnetic actuator .

The final mechanism to realize the jumping motion sequence is steering mechanism which can change the jumping direction without requiring an additional actuator. The steering mechanism is based on the speed reduction transmission in the energy mechanism. Since all the above mentioned motions can be achieved using one directional rotation the steering mechanism can be actuated by the same multi functional motor actuator but with rotation in another direction.

Alternately a single large gear at the end of the speed reduction transmission acts as the steering gear. Due to its large diameter the alternate steering gear touches the ground beyond the outer robot surfaces regardless of which largest surface of the robot contacts the ground. This method although simpler has a slow steering speed because the angular velocity of the large gear is small. The preferred design however solves this disadvantage by using two gears next to the motor output pinion gear so that their angular velocities are larger.

With the jumping mechanism and the energy mechanism if the same energy in the spring can be charged with a small peak value of torque T generated by the speed reduction system then the weight and size for the speed reduction system can be reduced. Therefore mechanism optimization is desirable to minimize the peak value of T. The optimal design calculations are set forth as follows. The optimization is achieved following the procedure of identifying the optimization variable formulating the objective function obtaining the constraints and solving the constrained optimization problem. To perform an optimal design the optimization variables should be first identified. Substituting force equation 4 into the torque equation 8 

Among the above eight parameters the variables will be only l l l l and . In other words k l and y are either constants or can be obtained from l l l l and . Furthermore the torsion springs are chosen to have a constant k 58.98 Nmm rad preferably obtained from McMaster Carr as part no. 9287K77 . Moreover lis represented as a function of l l and las will be shown in what follows. Let ybe the final minimum distance for y when the spring is fully charged then l y y 2. Since yis related to l l and las shown in equation 7 ycan also be expressed as a function of them if the initial energy Eis known. Based on the simulations to achieve one meter jumping height with a 75 take off angle the initial energy should be 0.3 J. But to leave some margin let the initial energy be E 0.4 J. Then ycan be obtained from 

Having identified the optimization variables the next step is to formulate an objective function. Given l l l and la torque curve as running from 0 to can be plotted. The goal is to find the optimal l l l and lsuch that the resulting curve has the property that the largest torque in the curve is minimum among all possible curves. In this case the objective function is the peak torque in the curve for given l l l and l which can be defined by 

The next step is to obtain the constraints for the optimization variables. The lengths of land lshould not be too small otherwise it cannot hold the torsion springs. At the same time they cannot be too large because of the size limit of the robot. Therefore with practical consideration assume 15 mm l l 20 mm. With similar implementation reasons other linear constraints for land l and the optimization can be formulated as minimize subject to 7 12 5 5 15 20 15 20 13 where the omitted length unit is millimeters. To solve the constraint optimization problem the numerical method is implemented in Matlab because the analytical expression for g l l l l cannot be obtained. The optimization is performed by dense discretization of and evaluating the value at the resulting points. The constrained nonlinear multivariable function in the Optimization Toolbox is employed to find the optimal value. Since the method can only obtain the local minimum various random initial points are chosen to run the optimization. The optimization results are the same for these initial points and the optimal values for the mechanisms are l 7 mm l 1.2 mm l 15 mm and l 20 mm. The other parameters can be calculated accordingly y 33.3 mm y 11.7 mm and l 10.8 mm. To avoid interference between the two revolute joints at the foot let l 18 mm then l l l 19.2 mm.

The self righting mechanism is designed to successfully recover from any landing posture. The design variables include the arm length and the range of arm rotation angle. The initial and final positions for both recovery arms are shown in . The initial positions shown in solid lines are parallel to body and the final positions shown with dashed lines contact ground with arm ends A and B . The ranges of arm rotation angle are denoted by and v for the left and right arms respectively. O is the middle point for AB. Moreover AB OD and ODB 75 is the robot take off angle. The relation between the arm length and range of arm rotation angle can be obtained as 

The next step is to design the length of AC shown in so that the desired angle ranges can be achieved. The mechanism can be simplified as shown in where Cto Care different locations for the end point C of crank AC. Cand C symmetric with respect to AB are the limit position for crank AC and CAC 135 . Cand C symmetric with respect to AB as well are the tangent points from point B to the circle formed by crank AC and CBC 105 . Right angled triangle ABCproduces AC AB sin 2 . The parameters for the right arm can also be derived accordingly. For example the maximum length of the right arm is square root over 2 cos 2 . 16 

Turning to and the bottom of base is designed with a tilt angle m of 15 to provide a 75 take off angle however an angle m of between 5 45 may also be suitable. The major part of the energy mechanism is the motor actuated gear train for the speed reduction transmission. The motor preferably obtained from Gizmoszone as part no. GH810136V3 has a no load rotational speed of about 100 RPM for 3 volts.

A three stage gear train connects an output shaft of motor actuator to crank . The gear train is made up of output pinion gear with 8 teeth compound steering gear with 28 8 teeth another compound gear with 28 9 teeth and spur gear with 35 teeth. Therefore the preferred total speed reduction ratio is 47.6. At both ends of each shaft a set of miniature ball bearings are used to reduce the friction of the associated gears. Moreover guidance pulleys are also a set of miniature ball bearings. The robot is preferably powered by a 50 mAh FullRiver LiPo battery see with 3.7 voltage output. Since the energy mechanism is placed on one side of the body the battery is placed on the other side to balance the weight. Most of the parts of the robot are fabricated using a 3D printing technology called Selective Laser Sintering SLS . The material for SLS is preferably a DuraForm HST composite from 3D Systems which is fiber reinforced and can be used for functional prototypes. Alternately other engineering grade polymers or mechanical manufacturing methods can be used to produce the robotic components such as the body arms legs foot and gears.

Comparing the jumping performance considering air resistance is at least 20 cm high h and more preferably h at least 55 cm and d 78 cm and most preferably h 98 cm and d 103 cm. It is envisioned that the present robot will also have the following characteristics a a mass or weight of less than 50 grams and more preferably 23.5 grams b a maximum linear dimension L less than 10 cm and more preferably 6.5 cm see and c can jump more than 100 times and more preferably approximately 285 times on a single 50 mAh battery charge. The entire motion cycle for each jumping is summarized in the flow diagram of .

Referring to a tail includes an elongated rigid link or rod member with negligible mass and an enlarged weight or ballast attached adjacent a distal end thereof. The other end of rod is rigidly connected to a rotor or tail gear for movement therewith which engages and is driven by a smaller diameter motor output gear . A small fractional horsepower electric tail motor drives motor gear through its central axis. In this way movement of tail is controlled by controlling the motor s rotation. If the air resistance is negligible the angular momentum of robot in mid air is a constant. Therefore if tail rotates robot body will also rotate to conserve the angular momentum. Accordingly a pitch angle of jumping robot is automatically controlled by rotating tail .

A schematic diagram of robot in the air is shown in where robot is represented as body or B and tail or A is connected at an active revolute joint at point C . The mass for body and tail are denoted as mand m respectively. Furthermore the body angle and tail angle with respect to a horizontal line are labeled as and respectively. The center of mass for the tail body and whole robot are at points A B and O respectively. Moreover a length for link AC and link BC are land l respectively. As shown a coordinate system OXY is established with the origin at the robot s center of mass X axis along the horizontal direction and Y axis along the vertical direction. The moment of inertial is designated as land lfor the tail and body respectively. During the jumping motion the system s angular momentum will be reserved. Thus if tail rotates in a clockwise direction then body rotates in the counterclockwise direction to conserve the angular momentum. In other words the pitch angle is automatically controlled by swinging tail .

Using a Lagrangian formulation a dynamics equation is obtained for jumping robot illustrated in as follows cos umlaut over sin dot over 17 cos umlaut over sin dot over 18 where

A dynamics equation is also used to analyze the required time to reach a desired angle. In this case the motor is considered to be under a constant voltage supply. Then the dynamics equation can be rewritten as 

To control the robot with the tail option an embedded and automated control system is designed with the schematic of . The whole system can be divided into four parts a central processing unit a sensing unit an actuation unit and a power supply unit . Central processing unit includes a microcontroller for example part no. ATmega128RFA1 from Atmel Corp. which is integrated with a 2.5 GHz Zigbee transceiver. The two way data transmission between a base station and robot can be ensured with this microcontroller. The power consumption for such transmission will be low because a Zigbee protocol is employed. Moreover the set of robots as shown in will be able to communicate to each other to form a mobile sensor network.

Sensing unit includes a three axis accelerometer a three axis gyroscope and a three axis magnetic compass . A single chip is employed for the preceding two sensors for example Model No. MPU 6050 from InvenSense Inc. while compass is another chip such as Model No. HMC5883L from Honeywell Inc. . With the accelerometer and gyroscope a closed loop and automated real time feedback control for mid air maneuvering can be achieved. Specifically accelerometer detects the free fall while gyroscope provides feedback of the body s angle to controller . Compass is employed to determine the robot s heading direction when the robot lands on the ground.

Actuation unit includes one or more motor drivers with pulse width modulation PWM ability. In the preferred version a dual H Bridge DC motor driver Model No. MC34933 from Freescale Semiconductor Inc. controls both jump motor and tail motor . With the PWM ability commands from the microcontroller control the voltage on the motors thereby dictating the motor speed.

Robot is powered by a small battery also shown as in such as the FullRiver 50 mAh LiPo battery. The voltage from the battery is regulated to 3.3 V by a regulator to power the entire robot . Although the embedded control system has all the required functions all of the components are contained in a small package with a printed circuit board size of 22.8 mm by 24.8 mm or less. Furthermore the total weight for this circuit board is less than three grams. The closed loop control for the mid air maneuvering can be accomplished with the embedded control system. The detailed closed loop system is illustrated in and a proportional derivative PD controller or other nonlinear controllers can stabilize the angle at a desired value.

The tail can only rotate about one axis to control the robot s pitch angle in the illustrated design however an alternate design is also envisioned to control the robot body s orientation this is represented by roll pitch and yaw angles. In this alternate case two motors instead of one need to be employed for the tail function so that the tail can rotate about two axes. It should be appreciated that the present tail assembly may be optionally used in combination with the jumping steering and self righting features of the robot shown in .

The remote communications device further sends a movement signal to each robot to cause the on board microprocessor to energize the actuator motor to cause jumping steering and or self righting movements. The on board microprocessor controller and or the remote communications device are connected to non transient memory such as ROM RAM a disk or a removeable memory chip within which are programmed software instructions . The software instructions as depicted in allow the robots to use the accelerometer compass and communications signals such as through triangulation between known locations to move the robots to optimum locations with respect to each other. Furthermore the jumping height enhances the ability of each robot to send and receive line of sight communications signals over obstacles . Moreover a parachute or helical spinner can optimally be deployed above robot when it is airborne or wings attached to the self righting arms which are extended after jumping in order to slow down descent of the robot to assist in sensing or communicating for a longer period of time.

While various features of the present jumping robot have been disclosed other variations can be employed. For example while two outwardly bending jumping legs have been disclosed three four or more bending legs can alternately be used although some of the light weight and thus jumping height advantages may not be achieved. Furthermore cable and pullies may be replaced by one or more chains or rigid articulated links although certain advantages may not be realized. Additionally alternate gearing combinations steering wheels instead of gears biasing members and leg and arm shapes may be utilized but certain advantages may not be found. Moreover it is alternately envisioned that the robot can be peripherally coated with a hydrophobic polymer and provided with larger ground contacting surface areas e.g. at the foot allowing for jumping from a surface of water upon which it rests. Accordingly such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the disclosure and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.

