---

title: Providing notification of computing resource availability for on-demand allocation
abstract: Technologies are described herein for providing notifications of computing resource availability for on-demand allocation. A resource request is received from a requesting application indicating the type, size, number, and other parameters of the computing resources desired. Upon determining that the requested computing resources are not immediately available, suitable alternative resources are determined based on the parameters of the requested resources. The availability of computing resources at the service provider is monitored, and when the requested resources or suitable alternatives become available, the requesting application is sent one or more resource availability notifications describing the available resources. The requesting application may then allocate the available resources from the service provider on-demand.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407569&OS=09407569&RS=09407569
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09407569
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131206
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 789 503 entitled PROVIDING NOTIFICATION OF COMPUTING RESOURCE AVAILABILITY FOR ON DEMAND ALLOCATION filed May 28 2010 which is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A service provider may provide remote computing resources available over the Internet or other network for use by customers for various information processing needs. An individual customer may request and have allocated processing resources storage resources database resources communication resources and the like. The computing resources may be allocated for continuous use by the customer or for a specific period of time. The number type size and configuration of the requested computing resources may vary by application. For example a university may require a large number of processing resources for a few hours to solve a complex mathematical problem while an online merchant may require highly available web services that the merchant may scale up or down on a real time basis to coincide with the demand for a new product being made available for purchase online.

The service provider may provide computing resources in different types sizes and configurations to meet the various demands of its customers. In addition the service provider may provide an application programming interface API such as a web service that allows the customer to allocate and manage the various available computing resources on demand. Allowing on demand allocation of remote computing resources may eliminate the need for the customer to make large and expensive hardware purchases and reduces the need of customers to forecast future resources requirements or network traffic because the customer is able to immediately deal with changes in requirements or spikes in popularity related to their application or service. However because availability of the computing resources is not within the customer s control the requested resources may not always be available in the amount or at the time that the customer requires.

The following detailed description is directed to technologies for providing notifications of computing resource availability for on demand allocation. Utilizing the technologies described herein a service provider providing remote computing resources may receive a request for the allocation of resources from a requesting application. If the requested computing resources are not immediately available suitable alternative resources that satisfy the request may be suggested to the requesting application. In addition the requesting application may receive subsequent notifications when the requested computing resources or suitable alternatives become available to satisfy the request. In this way the requesting application remains engaged with the service provider to ultimately fulfill the request for resources instead of simply receiving an error message indicating that the requested computing resources are unavailable. These and other advantages and features will become apparent from a reading of the following disclosure and a review of the associated drawings.

It should be appreciated that the subject matter presented herein may be implemented as a computer process a computer controlled apparatus a computing system or an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute on one or more computing devices those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced on or in conjunction with other computer system configurations beyond those described below including multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers handheld computers personal digital assistants e readers cellular telephone devices special purposed hardware devices network appliances and the like. The embodiments described herein may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and that show by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. The drawings herein are not drawn to scale. Like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures.

The computing resources may include various types of resources such as data processing resources data storage resources communication resources and the like. Each type of computing resource may be general purpose or may be available in a number of specific configurations. For example data processing resources may be available as web servers application servers media servers database servers and the like while data storage resources may include file storage devices block storage devices and the like. Further each type or configuration of computing resource may be available in different sizes such as large resources A C consisting of many processors large amounts of memory and or large storage capacity and small resources B D consisting of fewer processors smaller amounts of memory and or smaller storage capacity. Customers may choose to allocate a number of small processing resources B as web servers and or one large processing resource A as a database server for example.

The customer and other consumers of the allocated computing resources may access the resources over a network . The network may represent one or more of a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or any other networking topology known in the art that connects the computing resources to remote consumers of the resources. According to one embodiment the computing resources may be divided into a number of zones A B referred to herein generally as zone . The zones may correspond to specific regional data centers for example.

The customer may desire to allocate computing resources in a particular zone in order to have the resources geographically close to the consumers of the resources for example or the customer may require computing resources to be allocated and operated in a particular zone for geopolitical reasons. Further data exchanged between computing resources within the same zone may be free while data exchanged between computing resources in different zones may incur additional costs for the customer. Additionally or alternatively the zones may represent levels of reliability of the included computing resources security of the resources availability of the resources and the like.

A resource availability module may execute within the service provider system that is responsible for monitoring the availability of the various computing resources and responding to requests to allocate resources from customers. The resource availability module may execute on a single server computer or in parallel across multiple server computers in the service provider system . In addition the resource availability module may consist of a number of subcomponents executing on different server computers or other computing devices in the service provider system . The resource availability module may be implemented as software hardware or any combination of the two. The resource availability module may monitor available computing resources in the service provider system over an internal management network for example.

The resource availability module may receive and respond to requests to allocate computing resources received from a customer computing system . The customer computing system may represent one or more server computers personal computers PC desktop workstations laptops notebooks wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDA e readers game consoles set top boxes consumer electronics devices and the like. A requesting application may execute on the customer computing system that allocates and manages computing resources provided by the service provider. The requesting application may be implemented in hardware or software.

According to embodiments the requesting application may send a resource request to the resource availability module to request allocation of computing resources in response to a need for the resources by the customer. For example customer personnel may indicate to the requesting application that a number of processing resources are needed for a research project over the next several days. The requesting application may in turn send a resource request to the resource availability module to allocate the needed computing resources on demand. The resource request may be a data structure indicating the number type zone size and configuration of the desired computing resources as will be described in more detail in regard to .

In one embodiment the requesting application utilizes a specific requesting application programming interface API such as a Web service provided by the resource availability module to send the resource request . It will be appreciated that the requesting application may utilize other methods known in the art to transmit the resource request to the resource availability module such as via an e mail message via a short message system SMS text message through a web based user interface UI via a proprietary client server protocol and the like. It is intended that this application include all such methods of transmitting the resource request between the requesting application and the resource availability module .

As will be described in more detail below in regard to upon receiving a resource request from a requesting application the resource availability module evaluates the request and determines the availability of the requested computing resources within the service provider system . In a traditional implementation if the requested computing resources were not available the resource availability module may simply respond with an error indicating the requested computing resources were not available for allocation. According to embodiments described herein however the resource availability module may provide alternative suggestions for number type size zone and configuration of available computing resources that may satisfy the resource request . In addition the resource availability module may store the pending resource request in a database or other storage mechanism. When the requested computing resources or suitable alternatives become available in the service provider system the resource availability module may inform the requesting application of the available resources.

The resource availability module may inform the requesting application that the requested computing resources or suitable alternatives are available by sending a resource availability notification to the application. The resource availability notification may be a data structure that describes the number type size zone and configuration of available computing resources that may satisfy the corresponding resource request as will be described in more detail below in regard to . In one embodiment the resource availability module sends the resource availability notification in conjunction with an error message returned to the requesting application in response to a resource request for which the requested computing resources are not currently available. In another embodiment when the computing resources requested in a pending resource request or suitable alternatives become available the resource availability module sends a resource availability notification describing the available resources to a communication endpoint specified in the corresponding resource request.

The communication endpoint may be a Web service an e mail box a publish subscribe type notification service a proprietary service or other communication endpoint reachable by the resource availability module across the network . The communication endpoint may be implemented by the requesting application or another application executing in the customer computing system . Upon receiving the resource availability notification at the communication endpoint the requesting application or other application may determine if the available computing resources described adequately satisfy the needs of the customer that originally generated the corresponding resource request . If the needs are satisfied the requesting application or other application may then allocate some or all of the available computing resources on demand through the requester API provided by the resource availability module for example.

Turning now to one or more data structures containing a number of data elements will be described. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the data structures shown in the figures may represent rows in a database table objects stored in a computer memory programmatic structures or any other data containers commonly known in the art. Each data element included in the data structures may represent one or more fields or columns of a database row one or more attributes of an object one or more member variables of a programmatic structure or any other unit of data of a data structure commonly known in the art. The implementation is a matter of choice and may depend on the technology performance and other requirements of the computing system upon which the data structures are implemented.

In particular shows one example of data elements that may be stored in the resource request according to embodiments. As described above the resource request contains information indicating the number type size zone configuration and other parameters of the desired computing resources . The resource request may contain a resource request ID that uniquely identifies the resource request . The resource request ID may be supplied by the requesting application upon submission of the resource request or may be generated by the resource availability module when the request is received and then returned to the requesting application. The resource request ID may be utilized by the resource availability module to track the request and will be included in any corresponding resource availability notifications as described below allowing the requesting application to associate the notifications with the corresponding resource request .

The resource request may contain a requester ID that identifies the customer requesting the computing resources . In one embodiment the resource availability module may utilize the requester ID in determining suitable alternatives for number type size zone and configuration of available computing resources that may satisfy the corresponding resource request . For example the resource availability module may consider the resource utilization history or recent activity of the customer identified by the requester ID to determine the types of computing resources required.

In another embodiment the service provider may configure the resource availability module to respond to a resource request with a resource availability notification indicating subsequently available computing resources or suitable alternatives only for a subset of the service provider s customers. This may prevent new customers or potential competitors from fishing for availability of computing resources in the service provider system . The resource availability module may utilize the requester ID in the resource request to determine whether the requesting customer is among the customers for which resource availability notifications may be generated. If the requester ID indicates the customer is not to receive suggestions of alternative computing resources then the resource availability module may simply respond with an error message when the requested computing resources are not available for example.

The resource request may contain a valid from datetime and or a valid to datetime . The requesting application may set the values of the valid from datetime and a valid to datetime to indicate a period of time for which the resource request is valid. According to one embodiment the resource availability module may only respond with a resource availability notification indicating that the requested computing resources or suitable alternative are available if the resources become available within the indicated period of time.

The resource request may also contain a resource type indicating the type of computing resources being requested. For example the resource type may indicate that the resource request is for processing type resources storage type resources communication type resources and the like. Similarly the resource request may contain a resource size indicating the size of the resource requested. The resource size may indicate the number or speed of the central processing units for processing type resources a storage capacity for storage type resources a bandwidth capacity for communication type resources and the like. For example a small processing resource may refer to a computing unit with relatively lesser processing capabilities while an extra large processing unit may refer to a computing unit with relatively greater processing capabilities.

The resource request may also contain a quantity requested indicating the number of computing resources of the resources type and resource size desired. For example 100 small Web servers may be desired by a customer to provide payment processing software downloading and activation services in conjunction with the roll out of a new consumer electronic device. In one embodiment the resource availability module may utilize the combination of resource type resource size and quantity requested from the resource request in determining suitable alternatives for number type size zone and configuration of available computing resources that may satisfy the request. For example in the case of the request for 100 small Web servers by the customer described above the resource availability module may suggest five extra large Web servers as a suitable alternative. In another embodiment if the quantity requested is above some threshold value the resource availability module may deny the resource request and instead return instructions for the requesting customer to initiate an off line request with service provider personnel in order to allow the service provider to schedule the allocation of excessively large numbers of resources.

According to one embodiment the resource request also contains a zone requested indicating the desired zone from which the requested computing resources are to be allocated. The requesting application may specify a particular zone requested in the resource request in order to have the requested computing resources located geographically close to the consumers of the resources or for geopolitical reasons for example. Alternatively the requesting application may specify a zone requested indicating a zone in which existing computing resources currently allocated to the customer reside in order to avoid additional costs that may be incurred with data exchanged between computing resources in different zones. In a further embodiment the zone requested may specify a list of desired zones for the requested computing resources in a priority order. The resource availability module may utilize the list of zones in determining suitable alternatives for number type size zone and configuration of available computing resources that may satisfy the resource request .

The resource request may further contain a number of additional parameters describing other factors related to the request for computing resources . For example additional parameters may be included in the resource request that specify a configuration of the computing resources desired such as an operating system OS or application server software desired for processing resources whether the resources are to be monitored or not a maximum price the customer will pay for the requested resources and the like. The resource availability module may utilize the additional parameters in determining suitable alternatives for number type size zone and configuration of available computing resources that may satisfy the resource request .

In one embodiment an additional parameter may contain an indication of whether the requesting application desires the suggestion of suitable alternative computing resources that may satisfy the resource request in cases where the requested resources are not currently available. If the additional parameter indicates that alternative resources are not desired the resource availability module will not send a resource availability notification describing suitable alternative resources in conjunction with the error message returned to the requesting application indicating that the requested computing resources are not currently available. However the resource availability module may still send resource availability notification s describing available resources to the requesting application when the computing resources requested in the pending resource request subsequently become available.

In another embodiment an additional parameter may contain a minimum quantity value indicating a minimum quantity of the requested computing resources for which the requesting application wishes to be notified of availability. The resource availability module may utilize the minimum quantity value to determine when to send resource availability notifications to the requesting application regarding available computing resources for the request. For example the resource request may specify a quantity requested of 100 small Web servers with an additional parameter specifying a minimum quantity value of 20. The resource availability module may send a resource availability notification to the requesting application each time 20 or more small Web servers become available.

Further the resource availability module may continue to send resource availability notifications of 20 or more small Web servers being available until the entire quantity requested specified in the resource request has been allocated by the requesting application or until the requesting application fails to respond to a resources availability notification within a timely manner. Other additional parameters describing the configuration limitations and or other factors regarding the request for computing resources may be imagined beyond those described above and it is intended that this application include all such parameter values.

In a further embodiment the resource request contains a communication endpoint address . The communication endpoint address specifies a communication endpoint to which the resource availability module may send a resource availability notification when the computing resources specified in resource request or suitable alternatives become available as described above in regard to . The communication endpoint address may be a uniform resource locator URL an e mail address an Internet protocol IP address and port specification or any other address of a communication endpoint known in the art. It will be appreciated that the resource request may contain additional data elements describing the requested computing resources beyond those shown in and described above. The resource request may also contain fewer or different data elements than those shown in the figure. It is intended that all such data elements contained in the resource request be included in this application.

The resource availability notification may contain a timestamp indicating the time that computing resources became available. In one embodiment the resource availability module may hold the computing resources described in the resource availability notification reserved for some period of time. The timestamp in the resource availability notification may be utilized by the requesting application to determine how long the computing resources may be available. In another embodiment the computing resources described by the resource availability notification may not be reserved or guaranteed and a subsequent request to allocate the resources by the requesting application may still fail due to unavailability.

In a further embodiment the resource availability module may utilize the timestamp of the last resource availability notification sent to the requesting application to determine if the corresponding resource request should remain pending. If the requesting application does not respond to the resource availability notification with an allocation of computing resources in a specific period of time then the resource availability module may assume the resources are no longer desired and may mark the corresponding resource request in the database as no longer pending even if the valid to datetime of the request has not been reached.

The resource availability notification also contains the resource type resource size zone and other parameters describing the available computing resources . As described above the values for the resource type resources size zone and other parameters may be the same as the corresponding elements in the corresponding resource request indicating the requested computing resources have become available at a point subsequent to the original request. The values for the resource type resources size zone and other parameters may also describe different computing resources determined by the resource availability module to be suitable alternatives that satisfy the corresponding resource request . As will be described in more detail below in regard to suitable alternative computing resources may be suggested based on the history of the customer identified by the requester ID the combination of resource type resource size and quantity requested the requested zone or list of requested zones and or the additional parameters from the corresponding resource request for example.

The resource availability notification may further contain a quantity available indicating the number of the computing resources of the indicated resource type and resource size available in the indicated zone . Just as described above the quantity available may be the same as the quantity requested specified in the corresponding resource request indicating the requested quantity has become available or the quantity available may be less than the quantity requested. The quantity available may be less than the quantity requested when the resource availability module is suggesting alternative computing resources of a larger resource size and or different resource type for example.

In one embodiment the quantity available may be less than the quantity requested when a subset of the requested computing resources is available. As described above in regard to the resource availability module may send multiple resource availability notifications describing lesser quantities of available computing resources that partially satisfy the corresponding resource request as long as the request remains pending. It will be appreciated that the resource availability notification may contain additional data elements describing the available computing resources beyond those shown in and described above. The resource availability notification may also contain fewer or different data elements than those shown in the figure. It is intended that all such data elements contained in the resource availability notification be included in this application.

Turning now to additional details will be provided regarding the embodiments presented herein for providing notifications of computing resource availability for on demand allocation. It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in parallel or in a different order than those described herein.

The routine begins at operation where the resource availability module receives the resource request . For example the resource request may be received through the requester API described above in regard to . In one embodiment the resource request consists of an on demand allocation request received from the requesting application through the requester API . The resource availability module may check availability of the computing resources specified in the allocation request and determine that insufficient resources are available to satisfy the request. The resource availability module may return an error message to the requesting application indicating that the requested computing resources are unavailable.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the resource availability module determines suitable alternative computing resources that may satisfy the resource request . In one embodiment the resource availability module may determine the suitable alternative computing resources based on the combination of the resource type resource size and quantity requested specified in the resource request . For example in the case of a resource request for 100 small Web servers by the customer described above in regard to the resource availability module may suggest five extra large Web servers as a suitable alternative.

In another embodiment the resource availability module may select an alternative zone in which the requested computing resources are available. The alternative zone may be selected from a list of zones specified in the zone requested element of the resource request for example. In further embodiments the resource availability module may consider the resource utilization history or recent activity of the requesting customer unutilized or under utilized resources currently allocated to the customer that may be converted to the requested type and configuration alternative configurations that could be utilized differently sized resources that satisfy a price parameter specified in the request and the like in determining suitable alternative computing resources that may satisfy the resource request .

According to one embodiment the resource availability module may include a resource availability notification suggesting any available alternative computing resources with the error message returned to the requesting application . Additionally or alternatively the resource availability module may store the resource request in the database as a pending request. The resource request may remain pending for the period of time specified by the valid from datetime and valid to datetime values in the request until the requesting application has requested allocation of computing resources sufficient to satisfy the entire resource request or until the requesting application fails to timely respond to a resource availability notification associated with the resource request for example.

The routine proceeds from operation to operation where the resource availability module monitors the availability of computing resources in the service provider system . At operation the resource availability module periodically checks each pending resource request in the database to determine if the requested computing resources or suitable alternatives are available to satisfy the request. If no computing resources are available to satisfy the pending resource request the routine returns to operation where the resource availability module continues to monitor the availability of computing resources in the service provider system .

If at operation sufficient computing resources are available to satisfy some or all of the requested resources in the pending resource request the routine proceeds to operation where the resource availability module sends a resource availability notification describing the available resources to the requesting application . As described above in regard to the resource availability notification contains information describing the number type size zone and configuration of the available computing resources deemed by the resource availability module to be suitable for the corresponding resource request . Upon receiving the resource availability notification the requesting application may then allocate the described computing resources on demand through an allocation request sent to the resource availability module through the requester API for example. Alternatively if the suggested alternative computing resources are not satisfactory to the requesting application the application may discard the resource availability notification and await a subsequent notification that the original computing resources requested are available. From operation the routine ends.

The computer includes a baseboard or motherboard which is a printed circuit board to which a multitude of components or devices may be connected by way of a system bus or other electrical communication paths. In one illustrative embodiment one or more central processing units CPUs operate in conjunction with a chipset . The CPUs are standard programmable processors that perform arithmetic and logical operations necessary for the operation of the computer .

The CPUs perform the necessary operations by transitioning from one discrete physical state to the next through the manipulation of switching elements that differentiate between and change these states. Switching elements may generally include electronic circuits that maintain one of two binary states such as flip flops and electronic circuits that provide an output state based on the logical combination of the states of one or more other switching elements such as logic gates. These basic switching elements may be combined to create more complex logic circuits including registers adders subtractors arithmetic logic units floating point units and the like.

The chipset provides an interface between the CPUs and the remainder of the components and devices on the baseboard. The chipset may provide an interface to a random access memory RAM used as the main memory in the computer . The chipset may further provide an interface to a computer readable storage medium such as a read only memory ROM or non volatile RAM NVRAM for storing basic routines that help to startup the computer and to transfer information between the various components and devices. The ROM or NVRAM may also store other software components necessary for the operation of the computer in accordance with the embodiments described herein.

According to various embodiments the computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computing devices and computer systems through the network . The chipset includes functionality for providing network connectivity through a network interface controller NIC such as a gigabit Ethernet adapter. The NIC is capable of connecting the computer to other computing devices over the network such as the customer computing system other server computers in the service provider system and the like. It should be appreciated that any number of NICs may be present in the computer connecting the computer to other types of networks and remote computer systems.

The computer may be connected to a mass storage device that provides non volatile storage for the computer. The mass storage device may store system programs application programs other program modules and data which are described in greater detail herein. The mass storage device may be connected to the computer through a storage controller connected to the chipset . The mass storage device may consist of one or more physical storage units. The storage controller may interface with the physical storage units through a serial attached SCSI SAS interface a serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface a fiber channel FC interface or other standard interface for physically connecting and transferring data between computers and physical storage units.

The computer may store data on the mass storage device by transforming the physical state of the physical storage units to reflect the information being stored. The specific transformation of physical state may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the physical storage units whether the mass storage device is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like. For example the computer may store information to the mass storage device by issuing instructions through the storage controller to alter the magnetic characteristics of a particular location within a magnetic disk drive unit the reflective or refractive characteristics of a particular location in an optical storage unit or the electrical characteristics of a particular capacitor transistor or other discrete component in a solid state storage unit. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this description. The computer may further read information from the mass storage device by detecting the physical states or characteristics of one or more particular locations within the physical storage units.

In addition to the mass storage device described above the computer may have access to other computer readable storage media to store and retrieve information such as program modules data structures or other data. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable storage media can be any available media that provides storage of non transitory data and that may be accessed by the computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology compact disc ROM CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD high definition DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information in a non transitory fashion.

The mass storage device may store an operating system utilized to control the operation of the computer . According to one embodiment the operating system comprises the LINUX operating system. According to another embodiment the operating system comprises the WINDOWS SERVER operating system from MICROSOFT Corporation. According to further embodiments the operating system may comprise the UNIX or SOLARIS operating systems. It should be appreciated that other operating systems may also be utilized.

The mass storage device may store other system or application programs and data utilized by the computer such as the resource availability module described above in regard to . In one embodiment the mass storage device or other computer readable storage media may be encoded with computer executable instructions that when loaded into the computer may transform the computer from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computer capable of implementing the embodiments described herein. These computer executable instructions transform the computer by specifying how the CPUs transition between states as described above. According to one embodiment the computer may have access to computer readable storage media storing computer executable instructions that when executed by the computer perform the routine for providing notifications of computing resource availability for on demand allocation as described above in regard to .

The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a touchpad a touch screen an electronic stylus or other type of input device. Similarly the input output controller may provide output to a display such as a computer monitor a flat panel display a digital projector a printer a plotter or other type of output device. It will be appreciated that the computer may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for providing notifications of computing resource availability for on demand allocation are presented herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

