---

title: Solder fatigue arrest for wafer level package
abstract: A wafer level package includes a wafer, a lead disposed of the wafer for connecting the wafer to an electrical circuit, and a core disposed of the lead. In some embodiments, the lead disposed of the wafer is a copper pillar, and the core is plated onto the copper pillar. In some embodiments, the core is polymer screen-plated onto the lead. In some embodiments, the core extends between at least approximately thirty-five micrometers (35 μm) and fifty micrometers (50 μm) from the lead. In some embodiments, the core covers between at least approximately one-third (⅓) and one-half (½) of the surface area of the lead. In some embodiments, the core comprises a stud-shape extending from the lead. In some embodiments, the core extends perpendicularly across the lead. In some embodiments, the core extends longitudinally along the lead. Further, a portion of the core can extend perpendicularly from a longitudinal core.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09583425&OS=09583425&RS=09583425
owner: Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.
number: 09583425
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130628
---
The present application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 782 465 filed Mar. 14 2013 and titled SOLDER FATIGUE ARREST FOR WAFER LEVEL PACKAGE. The present application is also a continuation in part under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 396 804 filed Feb. 15 2012 and titled WAFER LEVEL PACKAGE DEVICE HAVING SOLDER BUMP ASSEMBLIES THAT INCLUDE AN INNER PILLAR STRUCTURE. U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 782 465 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 396 804 are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

An ever present objective of semiconductor assembly is to provide packages for enclosing encasing semiconductor components that are smaller thinner cooler and less expensive to manufacture at a high rate of production. One type of semiconductor package is the Plastic Dual In line Package PDIP . Another type of semiconductor package is the gull wing Small Outline SO package. These semiconductor packages generally include leads connectors extending from the sides of the package. Other types of semiconductor packages are flat lead less packages such as Dual Flat No leads DFN and Quad Flat No leads QFN packages. A DFN package has lead lands on only two sides of the perimeter of the package bottom while a QFN package has lead lands on four sides of the package bottom.

Some DFN and QFN package sizes can range from one millimeter 1 mm by two millimeter 2 mm packages having three 3 lead lands to ten millimeter 10 mm by ten millimeter 10 mm packages having sixty eight 68 lead lands. Because the lead frame is on the bottom of the package flat no lead packages can provide superior thermal performance when compared to leaded packages having similar body size and lead counts. Further in a flat no leads configuration the die attach pad can be exposed on the bottom exterior of the package allowing it to be soldered directly to a printed circuit board and providing a direct route for heat to dissipate away from the package. The exposed die attach pad often referred to as an exposed thermal pad may greatly improve heat transfer out of the integrated circuit package and into the printed circuit board.

A wafer level package includes a wafer a lead disposed of the wafer for connecting the wafer to an electrical circuit and a core disposed of the lead. In some embodiments the lead disposed of the wafer is a copper pillar and the core is plated onto the copper pillar. In some embodiments the core is polymer screen plated onto the lead. In some embodiments the core extends between at least approximately thirty five micrometers 35 m and fifty micrometers 50 m from the lead. In some embodiments the core covers between at least approximately one third and one half of the surface area of the lead. In some embodiments the core comprises a stud shape extending from the lead. In some embodiments the core extends perpendicularly across the lead. In some embodiments the core extends longitudinally along the lead. Further a portion of the core can extend perpendicularly from a longitudinal core.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Flat no leads Integrated Circuit IC packages such as DFN Dual Flat No leads packages and QFN Quad Flat No leads packages are used to physically and electrically connect ICs to printed circuit boards. The term flat no leads is used to describe surface mount technology allowing an IC to be connected to the surface of a Printed Circuit Board PCB without through holes and so on. Leadless connections terminals lead lands and an exposed thermal pad are typically provided on the bottom of a flat no leads IC package for connecting the package to a PCB. The lead lands are generally positioned at the perimeter of the package bottom while the exposed thermal pad is located in the center of the package bottom between the lead lands. Individual flat no leads packages may be formed together molded and plated in a block format on a panel and then singulated into separate devices after fabrication e.g. by sawing or punching the packages out of the panel .

Oftentimes wafer level packages fail board level reliability testing as a result of solder fatigue. For example during temperature cycling tests TCT components may become open at less than five hundred 500 cycles when solder joints completely crack. A temperature cycle test can be performed by cycling the temperature of the wafer level package between approximately minus forty degrees Celsius 40 C. and one hundred and twenty five degrees Celsius 125 C. . A cause of solder fatigue is thermal stress resulting from differences in the coefficients of thermal expansion CTE between a wafer level package and a printed circuit board PCB . As shown in solder cracks can occur on the package side of the connection between a wafer level package and a PCB during a temperature cycling test. As a result a solder joint is fractured near the package side the crack grows with progression of the TCT and eventually the solder joint is completely broken.

The present disclosure is directed to techniques and systems for reducing or preventing solder fatigue failure for flat lead less wafer level packages e.g. Dual Flat No leads DFN packages Quad Flat No leads QFN packages and so forth . For example solder joint cracks are reduced or prevented for wafer level QFN WL QFN packages during temperature cycle testing. These techniques can be used to increase the reliability and robustness of for instance chip scale packages CSP for power products. As described a non fatigue core e.g. formed of copper and or one or more other metals is introduced proximate to a solder joint e.g. inside a solder joint and acts as a crack arrest to reduce or prevent crack propagation through the solder joint. In embodiments of the disclosure when a solder crack propagates to the wall of a non fatigue core the crack is arrested there. In this manner solder fatigue is prevented from opening the connection.

Referring now to wafer level packages including one or more cores e.g. non fatigue cores are described. The wafer level packages can be implemented as WL QFNs QFNs DFNs and so forth. For example in some embodiments a wafer level package is implemented as a power product CSP having one or more leads configured to carry current and or heat. In some embodiments a wafer level package is formed using a molding process and the leads comprise thick copper pillar bars. As shown the non fatigue cores can be positioned proximate to a solder joint e.g. inside a solder joint . In some embodiments a copper non fatigue core is plated onto a lead of a wafer level package . For example a copper non fatigue core is plated onto a copper pillar lead on a WL QFN. In other embodiments a polymer non fatigue core can be screen plated onto a lead cured on a lead and so forth. As shown in metal e.g. copper studs are plated onto the leads of a WL QFN. However this configuration is provided by way of example only and is not meant to limit the present disclosure. In other embodiments the non fatigue cores can have other shapes. For instance in non fatigue cores are plated perpendicularly across the leads of a WL QFN and in non fatigue cores are plated longitudinally along the leads of a WL QFN with non fatigue cores periodically extending perpendicularly from the longitudinal non fatigue cores along the length of the leads . Further other variously shaped non fatigue cores can be used in addition to those illustrated in including but not necessarily limited to serpentine shaped non fatigue cores zigzag shaped non fatigue cores arc shaped non fatigue cores grid shaped non fatigue cores and so forth.

In embodiments of the disclosure after a wafer level package is connected to a printed circuit board solder is reflowed onto the leads and surrounds the walls of the non fatigue cores . In this manner a non fatigue core becomes the core of a solder joint after board mounting. A non fatigue core acts as a crack arrest to reduce or prevent crack propagation through the solder joint . In some embodiments the height of a non fatigue core with respect to a lead of a wafer level package ranges from between approximately thirty five micrometers 35 m to approximately fifty micrometers 50 m . However this range is provided by way of example only and is not meant to limit the present disclosure. In other embodiments a non fatigue core can be less than approximately thirty five micrometers 35 m in height with respect to a lead or greater than approximately fifty micrometers 50 m in height with respect to a lead . Further in some embodiments the area of a lead covered by non fatigue core ranges from between approximately one third to one half of the exposed surface area of the lead . However this range is provided by way of example only and is not meant to limit the present disclosure. In other embodiments a non fatigue core can cover less than approximately one third of the exposed surface area of a lead or greater than approximately one half of the exposed surface area of the lead .

Referring now to example techniques are described for fabricating a wafer level package where the wafer level package includes a connection with a non fatigue core in accordance with example embodiments of the present disclosure. depicts a process in example implementations for fabricating a wafer level package such as the wafer level packages illustrated in and described above.

In the process illustrated a lead is formed on a wafer. The lead is configured to connect the wafer to an electrical circuit Block . For example with reference to wafer level packages are configured as flat no leads packages with one or more leads e.g. die attach pads exposed on the bottom exterior of the packages . The leads allow packages to be soldered directly to printed circuit board providing a direct route for heat transfer between the packages and the PCB . In some embodiments a lead is formed on a wafer by forming a copper pillar on the wafer Block . For instance with continuing reference to a copper pillar lead is formed on a wafer of wafer level package .

Then a core is formed on the lead Block . For example with continuing reference to one or more non fatigue cores are formed on leads . In some embodiments the core is plated onto a copper pillar Block . For instance with continuing reference to one or more non fatigue cores are plated onto a lead comprising a copper pillar. In some embodiments the core comprises a polymer screen plated onto the lead Block . For example with continuing reference to one or more non fatigue cores comprise a polymer material screen plated onto one or more leads . In some embodiments the core covers between approximately one third and one half of the surface area of the lead Block . For instance with continuing reference to non fatigue cores cover between approximately one third and one half of the surface area of leads .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or process operations it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

