---

title: Displaying search results
abstract: Website search results obtained from searching multiple electronic information stores may be displayed transparently without distinguishing the electronic information store. The search may be performed by a web host and may include receiving at least one search term that then is compared with first electronic information within a first electronic information store to determine whether matches exist, where the first electronic information includes content provided by an internal source. The search term also is compared with second electronic information within a second electronic information store to determine whether matches exist, where the second electronic information includes content provided by an external source. Results are displayed based on matches that are determined to exist with the first electronic information and the second electronic information. The results are combined in a single list of results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09122731&OS=09122731&RS=09122731
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09122731
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130628
---
This invention relates to searching systems and processes and more particularly to displaying search results.

With the explosion of information on the Internet it has become increasingly difficult to conduct a search on the Internet that returns results in a manner and a format that are useful to the person conducting the search. Frequently when a search is performed the most useful and relevant results may be scattered and buried among thousands of results.

In other instances when a search is performed on the Internet a search may yield few or no results even though relevant results exist on the Internet. Few or no results may occur because the Internet sites and the web pages within Internet sites that contain the desired results may not be searchable.

In one general aspect website search results obtained from searching multiple electronic information stores may be displayed transparently without distinguishing the electronic information store. The search may be performed by a web host and may include receiving at least one search term that then is compared with first electronic information within a first electronic information store to determine whether matches exist where the first electronic information includes content provided by an internal source. The search term also is compared with second electronic information within a second electronic information store to determine whether matches exist where the second electronic information includes content provided by an external source. Results are displayed based on matches that are determined to exist with the first electronic information and the second electronic information. The results are combined in a single list of results.

Embodiments may include one or more of the following features. For example several search terms may be received and grouped as a single string by default.

The results may be displayed such that whether the results are obtained from the external source or the internal source is transparent to a user viewing the single list of results. The first electronic information may include proprietary web content and the second electronic information may include non proprietary content.

The results may include a ranked list of website identifiers. The results from the matches with the internal source may be ranked higher than the results from matches with the external source.

In another general aspect displaying website search results that are produced from having a web host search multiple electronic information stores may include receiving at least one search term. The search term is compared with first electronic information within a first electronic information store to produce first results based on matches that are determined to exist. The search term is also sent to a third party search service for use in comparing the search term to at least second electronic information within a second electronic information store to produce second results based on matches that are determined to exist. The second results are received from the third party search service the first results and the second results are combined and the combined first results and second results are displayed as a single list of results. The results include at least one website identifier.

Embodiments may include one or more of the following features. For example the single list of results may be transparent to a source of the results. The second electronic information may be maintained by the third party search service.

The first electronic information may include proprietary information. The second electronic information may include information that is non proprietary to a provider of the first electronic information. Additionally or alternatively the second electronic information may include information that is proprietary to the third party search service. Furthermore the first electronic information may be maintained by an Internet service provider. The results may include identifiers of several web sites and the identifiers may be ranked.

These general and specific aspects may be implemented using a system a method or a computer program or any combination of systems methods and computer programs.

Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

For illustrative purposes describe a communications system for implementing techniques for transferring files between subscribers of an instant messaging host complex. For brevity several elements in the figures described below are represented as monolithic entities. However as would be understood by one skilled in the art these elements each may include numerous interconnected computers and components designed to perform a set of specified operations and or dedicated to a particular geographical region.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging data between a client system and a host system through a communications link . The client system typically includes one or more client devices and or client controllers and the host system typically includes one or more host devices and or host controllers . For example the client system or the host system may include one or more general purpose computers e.g. personal computers one or more special purpose computers e.g. devices specifically programmed to communicate with each other and or the client system or the host system or a combination of one or more general purpose computers and one or more special purpose computers. The client system and the host system may be arranged to operate within or in concert with one or more other systems such as for example one or more LANs Local Area Networks and or one or more WANs Wide Area Networks .

The client device or the host controller is generally capable of executing instructions under the command of a client controller or a host controller . The client device or the host device is connected to the client controller or the host controller by a wired or wireless data pathway or capable of delivering data.

The client device the client controller the host device and the host controller each typically include one or more hardware components and or software components. An example of a client device or a host device is a general purpose computer e.g. a personal computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component other physical or virtual equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions.

An example of client controller or a host controller is a software application loaded on the client device or the host device for commanding and directing communications enabled by the client device or the host device . Other examples include a program a piece of code an instruction a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the client device or the host device to interact and operate as described. The client controller and the host controller may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to the client device or the host device .

The communications link typically includes a delivery network making a direct or indirect communication between the client system and the host system irrespective of physical separation. Examples of a delivery network include the Internet the World Wide Web WANs LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. PSTN ISDN and xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanism for carrying data. The communications link may include communication pathways that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks described above. Each of the communication pathways may include for example a wired wireless cable or satellite communication pathway.

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the host system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to the host system and the communications link of respectively. Likewise the client system of typically has attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible embodiment of the client system of .

The client device typically includes a general purpose computer having an internal or external storage for storing data and programs such as an operating system e.g. DOS Windows Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows 2000 Windows NT OS 2 and Linux and one or more application programs. Examples of application programs include authoring applications e.g. word processing database programs spreadsheet programs and graphics programs capable of generating documents or other electronic content client applications e.g. AOL client CompuServe client AIM client AOL TV client and ISP client capable of communicating with other computer users accessing various computer resources and viewing creating or otherwise manipulating electronic content and browser applications e.g. Netscape s Navigator and Microsoft s Internet Explorer capable of rendering standard Internet content.

The general purpose computer also includes a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions in response to commands from the client controller . In one implementation the client controller includes one or more of the application programs installed on the internal or external storage of the general purpose computer . In another implementation the client controller includes application programs externally stored in and executed by one or more device s external to the general purpose computer .

The general purpose computer typically will include a communication device for sending and receiving data. One example of the communication device is a modem. Other examples include a transceiver a set top box a communication card a satellite dish an antenna or another network adapter capable of transmitting and receiving data over the communications link through a wired or wireless data pathway . The general purpose computer also may include a TV television tuner for receiving television programming in the form of broadcast satellite and or cable TV signals. As a result the client device can selectively and or simultaneously display network content received by communications device and television programming content received by the TV tuner .

The general purpose computer typically will include an input output interface to enable a wired or wireless connection to various peripheral devices . Examples of peripheral devices include but are not limited to a mouse a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a keyboard a display monitor with or without a touch screen input and or a TV remote control for receiving information from and rendering information to subscribers. Other examples may include voice recognition and synthesis devices.

Although illustrates devices such as a mobile telephone a PDA and a TV remote control as being peripheral with respect to the general purpose computer in another implementation such devices may themselves include the functionality of the general purpose computer and operate as the client device . For example the mobile phone or the PDA may include computing and networking capabilities and may function as a client device by accessing the delivery network and communicating with the host system . Furthermore the client system may include one some or all of the components and devices described above.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible embodiment of the host systems and shown in .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host device includes a login server for enabling access by subscribers and routing communications between the client system and other elements of the host device . The host device also includes various host complexes such as the depicted OSP Online Service Provider host complex and IM Instant Messaging host complex . To enable access to these host complexes by subscribers the client system may include communication software for example an OSP client application and an IM client application. The OSP and IM communication software applications are designed to facilitate the subscriber s interactions with the respective services and in particular may provide access to all the services available within the respective host complexes. For example Instant Messaging allows a subscriber to use the IM client application to view whether particular subscribers buddies are online exchange instant messages with particular subscribers participate in group chat rooms trade files such as pictures invitations or documents find other subscribers with similar interests get customized news and stock quotes and search the Web.

Typically the OSP host complex supports different services such as email discussion groups chat news services and Internet access. The OSP host complex is generally designed with an architecture that enables the machines within the OSP host complex to communicate with each other certain protocols i.e. standards formats conventions rules and structures being employed to enable the transfer of data. The OSP host complex ordinarily employs one or more OSP protocols and custom dialing engines to enable access by selected client applications. The OSP host complex may define one or more specific protocols for each service based on a common underlying proprietary protocol.

The IM host complex is generally independent of the OSP host complex and supports instant messaging services irrespective of a subscriber s network or Internet access. Thus the IM host complex allows subscribers to send and receive instant messages whether or not they have access to any particular ISP. The IM host complex may support associated services such as administrative matters advertising directory services chat and interest groups related to the instant messaging. The IM host complex has an architecture that enables all of the machines within the IM host complex to communicate with each other. To transfer data the IM host complex employs one or more standard or exclusive IM protocols.

The host device may include one or more gateways that connect and therefore link complexes such as the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway . The OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway may directly or indirectly link the OSP host complex with the IM host complex through a wired or wireless pathway. Ordinarily when used to facilitate a link between complexes the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway are privy to information regarding a protocol anticipated by a destination complex which enables any necessary protocol conversion to be performed incident to the transfer of data from one complex to another. For instance the OSP host complex and IM host complex may use different protocols such that transferring data between the complexes requires protocol conversion by or at the request of the OSP host complex gateway and or the IM host complex gateway .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible embodiment of the host systems and shown in FIGS. . describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of OSP host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an OSP application for communicating with servers in the OSP host complex using OSP protocols that may or may not be exclusive or proprietary. The client controller also may include applications such as an IM client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with the IM host complex and the Internet .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . In other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host device includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as OSP host complex and IM host complex . The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to one or more of these elements.

The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are typically connected through one or more OSP host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may generally perform protocol conversions necessary to enable communication between one or more of the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

The OSP host complex supports a set of services to be accessed through and or performed by from one or more servers located internal to and external from the OSP host complex . Servers external to the OSP host complex may communicate using the Internet . Servers internal to the OSP complex may be arranged in one or more configurations. For example servers may be arranged in large centralized clusters identified as farms or in localized clusters identified as pods .

More specifically farms are groups of servers located at centralized locations within the OSP host complex . Farms generally are dedicated to providing particular functionality and services to subscribers and clients from a centralized location regardless of the location of the subscriber or client. Farms are particularly useful for providing services that depend upon other remotely located or performed processes and services for information such as for example chat email instant messaging news newsgroups search stock updates and weather. Thus farms tend to rely on connections with external resources such as the Internet and or other servers within the OSP host complex .

By contrast to farms pods are clusters of localized servers that provide some services offered by the OSP host complex from a location local to the service or information recipient which reduces and avoids time delays and congestion inherent in centralized processing. Each pod includes one or more interrelated servers capable of operating together to provide one or more services offered by the OSP host complex in a geographically localized manner with the servers of a pod generally operating independently of resources external to the pod . A pod may cache content received from external sources such as farms or the Internet making frequently requested information readily available to the local service or information recipients served by the pod . In this way pods are particularly useful in providing services that are independent of other processes and servers such as for example routing to other localized resources or recipients providing access to keywords and geographically specific content providing access to routinely accessed information and downloading certain software and graphical interface updates with reduced processing time and congestion. The determination of which servers and processes are located in the pod is made by the OSP according to load distribution frequency of requests demographics and other factors.

In addition to farms and pods the implementation of also includes one or more non podded and non farmed servers . In general the servers may be dedicated to performing a particular service or information that relies on other processes and services for information and may be directly or indirectly connected to resources outside of the OSP host complex such as the Internet and the IM host complex through an OSP gateway within OSP host complex gateway . In the event that subscriber usage of a particular service or information of the servers becomes relatively high those servers may be integrated into a farm or pod as appropriate.

In the implementation of one particular exemplary pod is shown in more detail. Pod includes a routing processor . In a packet based implementation the client system may generate information requests convert the requests into data packets sequence the data packets perform error checking and other packet switching techniques and transmit the data packets to the routing processor . Upon receiving data packets from the client system the routing processor may directly or indirectly route the data packets to a specified destination within or outside of the OSP host complex . In general the routing processor will examine an address field of a data request use a mapping table to determine the appropriate destination for the data request and direct the data request to the appropriate destination.

For example in the event that a data request from the client system can be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request to a local server in the pod . In the event that the data request cannot be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request internally to one or more farms one or more other pods or one or more non podded servers in the OSP host complex or the routing processor may direct the data request externally to elements such as the IM host complex through an OSP pod gateway .

The routing processor also may direct data requests and or otherwise facilitate communication between the client system and the Internet through the OSP pod gateway . In one implementation the client system uses an OSP client application to convert standard Internet content and protocols into OSP protocols and vice versa where necessary. For example when a browser application transmits a request in a standard Internet protocol the OSP client application can intercept the request convert the request into an OSP protocol and send the converted request to the routing processor in the OSP host complex . The routing processor recognizes the Internet as the destination and routes the data packets to an IP Internet Protocol tunnel . The IP tunnel converts the data from the OSP protocol back into standard Internet protocol and transmits the data to the Internet . The IP tunnel also converts the data received from the Internet in the standard Internet protocol back into the OSP protocol and sends the data to the routing processor for delivery back to the client system . At the client system the OSP client application converts the data in the OSP protocol back into standard Internet content for communication with the browser application.

The IP tunnel may act as a buffer between the client system and the Internet and may implement content filtering and time saving techniques. For example the IP tunnel can check parental controls settings of the client system and request and transmit content from the Internet according to the parental control settings. In addition the IP tunnel may include a number a caches for storing frequently accessed information. If requested data is determined to be stored in the caches the IP tunnel may send the information to the client system from the caches and avoid the need to access the Internet .

In another implementation the client system may use standard Internet protocols and formatting to access pods and the Internet . For example the subscriber can use an OSP TV client application having an embedded browser application installed on the client system to generate a request in standard Internet protocol such as HTTP HyperText Transport Protocol . In a packet based implementation data packets may be encapsulated inside a standard Internet tunneling protocol such as for example UDP User Datagram Protocol and routed to a web tunnel . The web tunnel may be a L2TP Layer Two Tunneling Protocol tunnel capable of establishing a point to point protocol PPP session with the client system . The web tunnel provides a gateway to the routing processor within the pod the Internet and a web proxy .

The web proxy can look up subscriber information from the IP address of the client system to determine demographic information such as the subscriber s parental control settings. In this way the web proxy can tailor the subscriber s content and user interfaces. The web proxy can also perform caching functions to store certain URLs Uniform Resource Locators and other electronic content so that the web proxy can locally deliver information to the client system and avoid the need to access the Internet in the event that data requested by the client system has been cached.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible embodiment of the host systems and shown in . describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of IM host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an IM application for communicating with servers in the IM host complex using exclusive IM protocols. The client controller also may include applications such as an OSP client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with elements such as the OSP host complex and the Internet .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . In other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as the OSP host complex and IM host complex login server is also capable of authorizing access by the client system and those elements. The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to one or more of the elements. The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are connected through one or more host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may perform any protocol conversions necessary to enable communication between the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

To access the IM host complex to begin an instant messaging session the client system establishes a connection to the login server . The login server typically determines whether the particular subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex by verifying a subscriber identification and password. If the subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex the login server employs a hashing technique on the subscriber s screen name to identify a particular IM server for use during the subscriber s session. The login server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular IM server gives the client system an encrypted key i.e. a cookie and breaks the connection. The client system then uses the IP address to establish a connection to the particular IM server through the communications link and obtains access to that IM server using the encrypted key. Typically the client system will be equipped with a winsock API Application Programming Interface that enables the client system to establish an open TCP connection to the IM server .

Once a connection to the IM server has been established the client system may directly or indirectly transmit data to and access content from the IM server and one or more associated domain servers . The IM server supports the fundamental instant messaging services and the domain servers may support associated services such as for example administrative matters directory services chat and interest groups. The domain servers can be used to lighten the load placed on the IM server by assuming responsibility for some of the services within the IM host complex . By accessing the IM server and or the domain server a subscriber can use the IM client application to view whether particular subscribers buddies are online exchange instant messages with particular subscribers participate in group chat rooms trade files such as pictures invitations or documents find other subscribers with similar interests get customized news and stock quotes and search the Web.

In the implementation of IM server is directly or indirectly connected to a routing gateway . The routing gateway facilitates the connection between the IM server and one or more alert multiplexors . For example routing gateway may serve as a link minimization tool or hub to connect several IM servers to several alert multiplexors . In general an alert multiplexor maintains a record of alerts and subscribers registered to receive the alerts.

Once the client system is connected to the alert multiplexor a subscriber can register for and or receive one or more types of alerts. The connection pathway between the client system and the alert multiplexor is determined by employing a hashing technique at the IM server to identify the particular alert multiplexor to be used for the subscriber s session. Once the particular multiplexor has been identified the IM server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular alert multiplexor and gives the client system an encrypted key i.e. a cookie used to gain access to the identified multiplexor . The client system then uses the IP address to connect to the particular alert multiplexor through the communication link and obtains access to the alert multiplexor using the encrypted key.

The alert multiplexor is connected to an alert gate that like the IM host complex gateway is capable of performing the necessary protocol conversions to enable communication with the OSP host complex . The alert gate is the interface between the IM host complex and the physical servers such as servers in the OSP host complex where state changes are occurring. In general the information regarding state changes will be gathered and used by the IM host complex . The alert multiplexor also may communicate with the OSP host complex through the IM gateway for example to provide the servers and subscribers of the OSP host complex with certain information gathered from the alert gate .

The alert gate can detect an alert feed corresponding to a particular type of alert. The alert gate may include a piece of code alert receive code capable of interacting with another piece of code alert broadcast code on the physical server where a state change occurs. In general the alert receive code installed on the alert gate instructs the alert broadcast code installed on the physical server to send an alert feed to the alert gate upon the occurrence of a particular state change. Thereafter upon detecting an alert feed the alert gate contacts the alert multiplexor which in turn informs the appropriate client system of the detected alert feed.

In the implementation of the IM host complex also includes a subscriber profile server connected to a database for storing large amounts of subscriber profile data. The subscriber profile server may be used to enter retrieve edit manipulate or otherwise process subscriber profile data. In one implementation a subscriber s profile data includes for example the subscriber s buddy list alert preferences designated stocks identified interests geographic location and other demographic data. The subscriber may enter edit and or delete profile data using an installed IM client application on the client system to interact with the subscriber profile server .

Because the subscriber s data is stored in the IM host complex the subscriber does not have to reenter or update such information in the event that the subscriber accesses the IM host complex using a new or different client system . Accordingly when a subscriber accesses the IM host complex the IM server can instruct the subscriber profile server to retrieve the subscriber s profile data from the database and to provide for example the subscriber s buddy list to the IM server and the subscriber s alert preferences to the alert multiplexor . The subscriber profile server also may communicate with other servers in the OSP host complex to share subscriber profile data with other services. Alternatively user profile data may be saved locally on the client device .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible embodiment of the host systems and shown in . describes several aspects of one implementation of the host system in greater detail focusing primarily on one particular implementation of the login server and IM host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the IM host complex . In one implementation the client controller includes an IM application for communicating with servers in the IM host complex using exclusive IM protocols.

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . In other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as the IM host complex and the OSP host complex in login server is also capable of authorizing access by the client system and those elements. The IM host complex includes an IM server network a routing gateway an alert multiplexor network and one or more alert gates . The IM server network may include an interconnected network of IM servers and the alert multiplexor network may include an interconnected network of alert multiplexors. In the implementation of the IM server network and the alert multiplexor network are interconnected by a routing gateway that serves as a common hub to reduce the number of connections. Each IM server within IM server network can directly or indirectly communicate and exchange information with one or more of the alert multiplexors in the alert multiplexor network . Each of the alert multiplexors in the alert multiplexor network may be connected to several alert gates that receive different types of alerts.

During a session a subscriber typically will be assigned to one IM server in the IM server network and to one alert multiplexor in the alert multiplexor network based on one or more hashing techniques. In one implementation for example each IM server in the IM server network may be dedicated to serving a particular set of registered subscribers. Because all of the IM servers can communicate with each other all subscribers can communicate with each other through instant messaging. However the IM servers and the alert multiplexors are capable of storing subscriber information and other electronic content that may be accessed by the other IM servers and alert multiplexors. Thus in another implementation each alert multiplexor in the alert multiplexor network may be dedicated to storing information about a particular set or subset of alerts. Because all of the alert multiplexors can communicate with each other all registered subscribers can receive all types of alerts. This networking arrangement enables the load to be distributed among the various servers in the IM host complex while still enabling a subscriber to communicate share information or otherwise interact with other subscribers and servers in the IM host complex .

Referring to an electronic search is performed according to a process . The search which may be a search of the Internet may be performed for example by the systems described above with respect to . For instance process may be performed by one or more of the pods of . Additionally or alternatively process may be performed by one or more non podded servers such as servers or farms of . Process also may be performed by any other hardware component or software component capable of being programmed to receive process and send instructions in the manner described.

Process generally includes receiving at least one search term step . The search term then is compared with a list of recommended sites step previously performed searches step a hierarchy of category identifiers and terms related to one or more categories step and an electronic information store that includes content displayed by and or extracted from different web pages from different web sites step to determine whether matches exist. Next a determination is made as to whether a threshold number of matches have been identified between the search term and one or more of the list of recommended sites the previously conducted searches the hierarchy of category identifiers and the electronic information step . An electronic search e.g. an Internet search using the World Wide Web WWW based on the search term is conducted when less than a threshold number of matches are identified step . Finally results that are based on identified matches are displayed step .

Several search terms may be received step and may be grouped by default as a single string or may be grouped in other ways. The search terms are typically received from a client system or or from one or more components of the client system as shown and described in . Search terms generally include text defined by letters and or numbers. However search terms also may include other searchable content such as symbols other alphanumeric characters and geometric constructs e.g. arcs Boolean operators e.g. AND OR ADJ NOT NEAR generally used to define relationships between search terms parentheses and quotation marks generally used to indicate precision and to group search terms wild card characters e.g. and generally used to represent a portion of a search term and concept operators e.g. generally used to broaden the search term or phrase to a list of related words related to the search term or phrase in order to search using these related words.

The recommended sites to which the search term is compared step may include web sites that have been specially designated as recommended sites web content that is considered proprietary to a web host such as an Internet Server Provider ISP or non proprietary content such as content from an Internet site that has been specially designated to provide content. The recommended sites typically include web site identifiers such as web site titles descriptions and addresses. Web sites may be designated as recommended sites by a human operator by a process performed by a computer or otherwise. In any case criteria used to designate a web site as a recommended site may include for example the number of times a site is accessed or the web site content. When matches occur between the search term and one or more of the recommended sites results are displayed step . The displayed results generally include one or more web site identifiers. An example of a displayed result is shown in under the heading Recommended Sites .

Comparing the search term with previously performed searches to determine whether matches exist step may include comparing the search term with previously received search terms such as those stored in an electronic data store e.g. a memory or a database . The search term also may be compared with the results of previously performed searches to determine whether matches exist. Based on matches that are determined to exist results are displayed step as shown for example under the heading Related Hot Searches in . The results generally include a list of search terms for previously performed searches that share one or more of the received search terms. Selecting one of the results by mouse click or otherwise typically invokes a search process e.g. process with respect to the chosen result but may also or alternatively invoke display of the results of previously performed searches that are retrieved from storage or memory.

Comparing the search term with a hierarchy of category identifiers and or terms related to one or more categories to determine whether matches exist step is described in more detail with reference to which shows an exemplary process for performing a category search. In the implementation of process generally includes receiving at least one search term step comparing the search term with a hierarchy of category identifiers to determine whether matches exist step comparing the search term with terms related to one or more categories to determine whether matches exist step ranking results of the comparisons step and communicating at least a category identifier based on the matches that are determined to exist within the hierarchy and the terms step .

The search terms received step generally include the search terms that were received step for use in performing an electronic search. As such one or more search terms may be received and may be grouped together for searching purposes as a single string by default or may be grouped in other ways.

The hierarchy of category identifiers with which the search terms are compared step may include identifiers used to represent categories and information relating to those categories. For example in one implementation the hierarchy of category identifiers may include a hierarchy of category names where groups of the category names are linked together in a hierarchical relationship. In this instance names in the hierarchy represent categories the names of which are linked together using sub categories. The hierarchy of category identifiers also may include other related information such as a list of web sites that are related to the category by name description or otherwise.

Referring to an exemplary screen shot illustrates an example of a hierarchy of category identifiers . In this instance the hierarchy of category identifiers appears as a linked list of category names that are affiliated with specific categories. The hierarchical relationship among category identifiers and other related information typically is ordered with broad category names and information followed by more narrow names and information. Other forms and data contents also may be used to express a hierarchy of category identifiers. For instance the category identifier may additionally or alternatively include other information representing categories therein such as text alphanumeric characters symbols and combinations thereof. In one implementation some or all of the hierarchy of category identifiers may be arranged by and or received from a third party listing service e.g. Open Directory Project .

In comparing the search terms step matches are typically determined to exist when a received search term matches one or more of the identifiers within the hierarchy of category identifiers. When several received search terms are grouped as a single string for searching purposes the comparison includes comparing the single string of search terms with the hierarchy of category identifiers to determine whether matching strings exist.

Comparing the search term with terms related to one or more categories to determine whether matches exist step may include using information related to categories such as a name of a web site corresponding to a category a description of the web site or other related terms. When several search terms are received and grouped as a single string the comparison step may include comparing the single string of search terms with the terms related to one or more categories to determine whether matches exist. To improve searchability of terms provided by third party listing services e.g. Open Directory Project the comparison may include converting received or related terms to a predesignated searchable format e.g. by indexing and cataloguing the terms.

Ranking the results step generally includes ranking the results of comparisons performed in either both or the combination of steps and . The category identifiers may be ranked based on at least one of a number of matches that are determined to exist the relative locations of matches and the relative types of matches. For instance the potential relevance of a matching category is generally deemed to increase as the number of identified matches increase. Furthermore the potential relevance and hence the rank of a matching category is deemed to change based on the existence and frequency of matches that occur within different types of information such as the hierarchy of category identifiers step and the terms related to one or more categories step . For instance the results may be ranked based on the existence and number of matches between a search term and the hierarchy of category identifiers or within the terms related to one of more categories.

Ranking of matching categories and corresponding category identifiers also may be based on the relative location of the matches within the hierarchy of category identifiers. For example a match occurring in a category identifier that represents a narrow category may be ranked higher than a match occurring within a category identifier that represents a broader category or vice versa. Further category identifiers that include matches occurring within the hierarchy of category identifiers are generally ranked higher than category identifiers that include matches that occur within the terms related to one or more categories. Ranking the category identifiers based on the type of the match also may include ranking the category identifiers based on whether the matches occur within at least one of the terms related to one or more categories and the hierarchy of category identifiers. When category identifiers include matches occurring within more than one type those identifiers are ranked higher than category identifiers that contain matches occurring within only one of the types. For example a category having matches occurring within both the hierarchy of category identifiers and the terms related to one or more categories is typically ranked higher than a category that includes matches occurring within only one of the hierarchy of category identifiers and the terms related to one or more categories.

Communicating at least a category identifier step generally includes communicating information revealing matches that are determined to exist within the hierarchy and the related terms. The results communicated generally include at least a category identifier and are provided for use in a displaying process such as display step of for eventual display to a user of a client system.

Referring to an example of results communicated step is displayed under the heading Matching Categories. The matching categories of include several hierarchies of category identifiers with each hierarchy of category identifiers being ranked in terms of relevance to the proffered search term. The hierarchy of category identifiers shown by is a listing of category identifiers. The listing starts with an identifier for a broad category and descends to an identifier for a more narrow category with the last category identifier being the final matching category name. A hierarchy that includes a match within the final category name is generally ranked higher step than a hierarchy that includes a match within a category name other than the final category name within the hierarchy of category identifiers. In one implementation selecting one of the categories using a mouse or otherwise will reveal another screen shot as shown e.g. in . Each category may include a listing of sub categories and web sites within those categories. For instance the listing for a web site within a category may include the title of the web site a description of the web site and an address for the web site.

Referring to another aspect of the search process shown by is described for performing a search to identify web sites that relate to a search term. In this search process the search term is compared against text or other searchable content displayed or extracted from the actual web site s . Process of generally includes receiving at least one search term step comparing the search term with electronic information within at least one electronic information store to determine whether matches exist step ranking results of the comparison step and communicating results based on the matches that are determined to exist step .

The search terms received step generally include the search terms that were received step for use in performing an electronic search. As such one or more search terms may be received and may be grouped together for searching purposes as a single string by default or may be grouped in other ways.

The received search terms may be compared step to electronic information within at least one electronic information store to determine whether matches exist. The electronic information may include for example text or other searchable content displayed by and or extracted from web pages from different web sites. When several search terms are received the comparison step may include comparing the single string of search terms with the electronic information within the electronic information store to determine whether matches exist. The electronic information may include partial or full text displayed by different web pages from different web sites e.g. an introductory or home page titles descriptions and addresses of web sites.

Ranking the results step generally includes ranking search results based on an algorithm that takes into account various aspects of the results achieved. For example the identifiers for the several web sites may be ranked based on a number of the matches that are determined to exist between the search term and the electronic information corresponding to the web sites. Ranking the identifiers for the several web sites also may be based on whether matches occur within one or more of the text the title the description and the addresses of the web site. For instance identifiers with more than one of the title description text and web address that match a search term are generally ranked higher than identifiers with only one of the title description text and web address that match the same search term.

In addition the ranking also may be based on which of these forms of electronic information are matched and where the matches occur. For example identifiers with titles that match a search term may be ranked higher than identifiers with descriptions that match the same search term which may be ranked higher than identifiers with web addresses that match the same search term which may be ranked higher than identifiers with text that matches the same search term.

Communicating results step may be based on matches that are determined to exist from the comparison step . For instance the search results communicated step may be provided for use in a displaying process such as displaying step of for eventual display to a user of e.g. a client system. The results communicated typically include an identifier for each matching web site such as a title a description address information text characters symbols or combinations thereof used to identify or describe a web site. For example shows an exemplary display of identifiers .

Referring also to comparing the search term with electronic information within at least an electronic information store step may include classifying the search term among at least first and second categories step comparing the search term to first electronic information within a first electronic information store to determine whether matches exist when the search term is classified within the first category step and comparing the search term to at least second electronic information within at least a second electronic information store to determine whether matches exist when the search term is classified within the second category step . As shown in the process of comparing shown by may be preceded by receiving at least one search term step of and followed by ranking and communicating a result based on the matches that are determined to exist steps and of . A more detailed description for steps and is provided above with reference to a more detailed description of steps and is provided below.

Classifying the search term step generally includes classifying the received search term among one or more categories with a first category and a second category being described and shown for illustrative purposes. If several search terms are grouped as a single string the search terms may be collectively classified as a single string based on the grouping of the search terms or they may be classified individually based on each individual search term.

Comparing the search terms step generally includes comparing the search term to first electronic information within a first electronic information store when the search term is classified within the first category. By contrast comparing the search term step generally includes comparing the search term to the second electronic information within the second electronic information store to determine whether matches exist when the search term is classified within the second category. However comparing the search term step may also include comparing the search term to the first electronic information within the first information store such that matching results from both electronic information stores may result from the comparison step . In this instance search terms are compared to a first set of data step and compared to a second set of data that includes the first set of data and other data step .

Referring to a system that searches and stores searchable content includes first and second electronic information stores and which store electronic information received or derived from different sources which may have different classifications. The system may further include additional electronic information stores as illustrated by item and generally may include a search engine for comparing received search terms with the content within either or both information stores to determine whether matches exist.

The first electronic information store and the second electronic information store may be a part of a single storage device or several separate storage devices examples of which include a magnetic disk e.g. an internal hard disk and removable disk a magneto optical or optical disk and a CD ROM. The first electronic information store and the second electronic information store also or alternatively may be a part of a single volatile or non volatile memory device or several separate non volatile memory devices examples of which include semiconductor memory devices such as RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices. When stored on separate devices the first electronic information store may be located on a first server and the second electronic information device may be located on a second server that differs from the first server.

The first and second electronic information stores and each may include partial or full text or other searchable content displayed by one or more different web pages from one or more different web sites and may include identifiers for those web sites such as titles descriptions and addresses. The first and second electronic information stores and are typically populated by automatically scanning and storing the text and or other searchable content of a web site that has been accessed a threshold number of times by members of a web host as described with respect to steps and of or that has been identified by a listing service but not accessed the threshold number of times by members of the web host as described with respect to steps and of . However either of stores and may be populated in other ways. In either case the first and second electronic information stores and store searchable content corresponding to the contents scanned from web pages whether identified through access activities list service identification or in other ways.

Each electronic information store may contain content that has been classified and stored based on a specified type or types of classification criteria. For instance the first electronic information store may include content classified as non offensive and the second electronic information store may include content classified as offensive. Other types of content classification criteria may be implemented in addition to or separate from criteria based on offensive and non offensive classifications. Other criteria that may be used for example include medical and non medical legal and non legal and sports and non sports.

In one implementation the first electronic information includes contents relating to non offensive web sites and the second electronic information includes contents relating to offensive web sites. Example of non offensive web sites may include web sites that do not include pornographic violent racist or hate related content. By contrast examples of offensive web sites may include web sites that include pornographic violent racist or hate related content.

The following describes an example applying the described search methods of to this implementation. A user of a client system enters a search term step . The search term is classified as either being offensive or non offensive step . If the term is classified as being non offensive then only the contents of the first electronic information store are searched step and results from the search are communicated for display to the user step . In this example the first electronic information store only contains contents that previously have been classified as non offensive. If the search term entered by the user is classified as being offensive the contents of either the second electronic information store or both the first and second electronic information stores are searched step and the results are communicated for display to the user step .

The described filtering of results between offensive content and non offensive content based on the classification of the search term may allow a web host to implement a parental type of control in determining what search results are displayed to the user. Because the offensive and non offensive contents are stored in different electronic information stores the ability to restrict access is enhanced. For instance parental control can be exercised by blocking the access of a user to one or more electronic information stores. Other forms of data filtering also are enabled through this process and related techniques.

Referring to the electronic information within the electronic information store may be populated by various methods. For instance process of also may include identifying web sites and or web pages accessed by members of a web host step automatically scanning the text of a web site when the web site is accessed by a member of a web host step storing text or other searchable content from within the web site that was automatically scanned for comparison against search terms that were received step identifying web sites provided by a listing service step determining whether text or other searchable content for web sites identified by the listing service were stored previously step and automatically scanning and storing text or other searchable content from within web sites that were determined not to be stored previously step . The relative order of steps within and should not be construed to imply order among the steps described by those respective figures.

The access activity of members of a web host may be monitored to enable web sites that have been accessed to be identified for scanning and storage in preparation for future electronic searches step .

Automatically scanning step typically includes automatically scanning the text of a web site when the web site is accessed by a member or a configurable threshold number of members of the web host. Automatically scanning also may include scanning the full text of the web site scanning text included on an introductory page and scanning full text included on an introductory page. Scanning generally includes character or image recognition techniques but may include other methods of capturing and conversion of information displayed by accessed web pages or web sites to searchable form.

Storing text step generally includes storing the text or other searchable content of the web site that was automatically scanned for future comparison against search terms. The text may be stored in an electronic information store such as those described above which may be embodied for example by cache memory.

In one implementation prior to scanning step and storing step populating the electronic information store may further include identifying the web site being accessed by a member of the web host step and determining whether the text of the web site was previously stored. In this implementation automatically scanning and storing will occur when the text of the web site is determined not to have been previously stored. Otherwise the scanning and storing may be skipped.

Determining whether the text of the web site has been stored may be accomplished using various methods. For example determining whether the text of the web site has been stored may be based on a web site address that corresponds to the web site being accessed by the member of the web host. Additionally or alternatively determining whether the text has been stored may be based on the text of the web page or on the web site itself.

Another method for populating the electronic information within the electronic information store includes identifying web sites provided by a listing service step determining whether the text of the web sites provided by the listing service were scanned and stored previously step and automatically scanning and storing the text of the web sites determined not to be stored previously step .

Identifying web sites provided by a listing service step may occur on a periodic basis e.g. daily weekly monthly based on a triggering event e.g. receipt of listing service information or otherwise. The listing service generally includes a third party service such as that provided by the Open Directory Project ODP .

Determining whether web site content has been previously scanned and stored step may include searching memory or storage contents for content or identifiers corresponding to the web page or web host either through a search of a table of contents for the memory or storage or through a search of the memory or storage itself.

Automatically scanning and storing step also may include automatically scanning and storing the full text of web sites provided by the listing service.

The process for searching different data stores may further include automatically scanning contents of a web site when the web site is accessed by a member of a web host classifying the contents of the web site among at least one of the first electronic information within the first electronic information store and the second electronic information within the second electronic information store storing the contents of the web site as part of the first electronic information when the contents are classified among the first electronic information and storing the contents as part of the second electronic information when the contents of the web site are classified among the second electronic information.

Referring to a process for displaying web site search results generally includes receiving at least one search term step . The search term is compared with first electronic information within a first electronic information store including content provided by an internal source to determine whether matches exist step . The search term also is compared with second electronic information within a second electronic information store including content provided by an external source to determine whether matches exist step . Results based on the matches that are determined to exist with the first electronic information and the second electronic information are displayed with the results combined in a single list of results including the matches that are determined to exist with the first electronic information and the second electronic information step .

Typically at least one search term is received step . However several search terms may be received and may be grouped by default as a single string or may be grouped in other ways. The search terms may be received from any type of source e.g. a user of a client system a search engine a component of a process for searching the Internet .

Comparing with first electronic information step typically includes comparing the search term to first electronic information within a first electronic information store to determine whether matches exist. The first electronic information may include content provided and or maintained by a web searching host and content for which access is provided only to selected members by the web searching host. The web searching host may be an Internet service provider or some other content maintaining and providing service. The content may include content that is proprietary to the web searching host and content that is proprietary to another entity but that is made accessible only to members of the web searching host.

Comparing with second electronic information step typically includes comparing the search term to second electronic information within a second electronic information store to determine whether matches exist. The second electronic information may include content provided and or maintained by a source external to the web searching host. One example of second electronic information includes content that is available to both members and non members of a web searching host such as content available to any member of the public on the World Wide Web. The content may include content that is non proprietary to the web host as well as content that is proprietary to another entity but that is available to others as well as to members of the web host.

For instance steps and may correspond to searching processes described with respect to one or more of steps and where the web searching host searches its own content as well as externally provided and maintained content for matches with any or all of recommended sites previously performed searches category identifiers and electronic information such as text from the web pages. An example of a web searching host includes America Online AOL which maintains web accessible contents and which enables searching of those web accessible contents and other non AOL maintained contents with display of amalgamated search results.

Results may be displayed step based on the matches that are determined to exist with the first electronic information and the second electronic information. The results may be combined in a single list of results. Displaying step may include displaying results such that the source of the results obtained from the external source or the web searching host is transparent to a user viewing the single list of results. Furthermore the single list of results may be displayed in a ranked list of results. The ranking may be in descending order of relevance from results that are most relevant to the received search term to results that are least relevant to the received search term. Each result may be assigned a relevance weighting based on the numerous factors that may be considered by a ranking algorithm. Some of the factors used by the ranking algorithm may include the number of shared words between the search term and the results and the identification of the component of a single result e.g. title of the web site description of the web site address of the web site text of the web site in which the shared terms occur. Additionally or alternatively the results may be ranked according to whether the match occurs between the search term and the internal source or between the search term and the external source.

For example as shown in under Matching Sites a single ranked list of results is displayed so that the source of any one listed result is transparent to a viewer of the results. Similarly as shown in under Matching Web Pages a single ranked list of results is displayed so that the source of any one listed result is transparent to a viewer of the results. A viewer of the results is unaware of the proprietary or non proprietary nature of any of the results.

In one implementation a process for displaying web site search results that are produced from searching multiple electronic information stores generally includes sending the search term to a third party search service for use in comparing the search term to at least second electronic information within a second electronic information store receiving the results from the third party search service combining the first results and the second results and displaying the combined first results and second results as a single list of results with the results including at least one web site identifier.

In this implementation the first electronic information may include proprietary information and the second electronic information may include electronic information that is non proprietary to a provider of the first electronic information. The second electronic information may be maintained by a third party search service and may include information that is proprietary to the third party search service. The first electronic information within the first electronic information store may be maintained by an Internet service provider.

In addition the systems methods and techniques described here may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Apparatus embodying these techniques may include appropriate input and output components a computer processor and a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage component for execution by a programmable processor. A process embodying these techniques may be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform desired functions by operating on input data and generating appropriate output. The techniques may advantageously be implemented in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input component and at least one output component. Each computer program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language or in assembly or machine language if desired and in any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory and or a random access memory. Storage components suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory components such as Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory components magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM disks . Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

