---

title: Industrial data analytics in a cloud platform
abstract: Cloud-aware industrial devices feed robust sets of data to a cloud-based data analyzer that executes as a service in a cloud platform. In addition to industrial data generated or collected by the industrial devices, the devices can provide device profile information to the cloud-based analyzer that identifies the device and relevant configuration information. The industrial devices can also provide customer data identifying an owner of the industrial devices, contact information for the owner, active service contracts, etc. The cloud-based data analyzer leverages this information to perform a variety of custom analytics on the data and generate reports or notifications catered to the particular industrial assets' optimal performance and business goals of the owner's industrial enterprise, as well as perform real-time decision making and control.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438648&OS=09438648&RS=09438648
owner: ROCKWELL AUTOMATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09438648
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131122
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 821 639 filed on May 9 2013 and entitled REMOTE SERVICES AND ASSET MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND METHODS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject application relates generally to industrial automation and more particularly to techniques for providing industrial data to a cloud platform for analysis by cloud based applications and services.

Industrial controllers and their associated I O devices are central to the operation of modem automation systems. These controllers interact with field devices on the plant floor to control automated processes relating to such objectives as product manufacture material handling batch processing supervisory control and other such applications. Industrial controllers store and execute user defined control programs to effect decision making in connection with the controlled process. Such programs can include but are not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such programming structures. In general industrial controllers read input data from sensors and metering devices that provide discreet and telemetric data regarding one or more states of the controlled system and generate control outputs based on these inputs in accordance with the user defined program.

In addition to industrial controllers and their associated I O devices some industrial automation systems may also include low level control systems such as vision systems barcode marking systems variable frequency drives industrial robots and the like which perform local control of portions of the industrial process or which have their own localized control systems.

A given industrial enterprise may comprise a large number industrial assets distributed across multiple facilities. These assets may comprise one or more industrial devices operating in conjunction to carry out respective industrial applications e.g. batch processing material handling automated product assembly quality checks die casting etc. . The large number of industrial assets that can make up an industrial enterprise together with the often continuous operation of those assets results in generation of a vast amount of potentially useful data across the enterprise. In addition to production statistics data relating to machine health alarm statuses operator feedback e.g. manually entered reason codes associated with a downtime condition electrical or mechanical load over time and the like are often monitored and in some cases recorded on a continuous basis. This data is generated by the many industrial devices that can make up a given automation system including the industrial controller and its associated I O telemetry devices for near real time metering motion control devices e.g. drives for controlling the motors that make up a motion system visualization applications lot traceability systems e.g. barcode tracking etc. Moreover since many industrial facilities operate on a 24 hour basis their associated automation systems can generate a vast amount of potentially useful data at high rates. For an enterprise with multiple plant facilities the amount of generated automation data further increases.

Collective analysis of enterprise wide data collected from multiple production areas and industrial facilities of an industrial enterprise could yield useful insights into overall plant operations. However access to the industrial data is typically limited to applications and devices that share a common network with the industrial controllers that collect and generate the data. As such plant personnel wishing to leverage the industrial data generated by their systems in another application e.g. a reporting or analysis tool notification system visualization application backup data storage etc. are required to maintain such applications on site using local resources. Moreover although a given industrial enterprise may comprise multiple plant facilities at geographically diverse locations or multiple mobile systems having variable locations the scope of such applications is limited only to data available on controllers residing on the same local network as the application.

Also given the disparate nature of the industrial devices in use at a given industrial facility data generated by these devices may conform to several different data types and formats which may not be mutually compatible rendering collective analysis difficult.

The above described deficiencies of today s industrial control systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to migration of industrial data to a cloud platform for collective analysis and device management. To this end systems and methods are provided for migrating a customer s industrial data from all stages of manufacturing as well as throughout the supply chain to a cloud platform for collective big data analysis. In one or more embodiments cloud gateway devices can collect data from the customer s industrial assets associate the data with a customer profile and push the modified data to the cloud for analysis. The cloud gateways can comprise stand alone gateway devices can be integrated into the industrial devices themselves or can be integrated in network infrastructure devices on the plant network. Analytics services executing on the cloud platform can receive and store the data in a customer data store associated with the customer profile.

To facilitate collective analysis of industrial data from multiple disparate sources e.g. different customers devices supply chain entities and industries one or more embodiments can facilitate normalization of some or all of the gathered industrial data so that dependencies and correlations across data sets can be identified. For example automation devices or cloud gateways can normalize the industrial data according to a common standard and format prior to moving the data to the cloud. In other embodiments data normalization can be performed on the cloud side by the analytics service after migration of the data to the cloud platform.

Once the industrial data has been moved to the cloud platform normalized and associated with a customer profile analytics applications executing on the cloud platform can leverage the data to provide a number of remote services to the customer. In an example application cloud based services can analyze the data using any of a number of techniques e.g. machine learning data mining etc. to identify dependencies or correlations between aspects of an industrial system that may otherwise be hidden to the customer. Cloud based analysis can also identify system trends indicative of an impending system failure or operating inefficiency. In another example device management services can compare the device profile for a given device in service at a customer facility with a product resource data store to determine whether a newer version of the device or associated software is available. Notification services on the cloud platform can deliver upgrade opportunity notifications to specified client devices associated with the industrial enterprise. In another example data collected from a customer facility can be correlated with data collected from similar industrial applications in use at other customer sites so that predictions and configuration recommendations can be generated based on learned correlations between asset configurations and system performance.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

To provide a general context for the cloud based predictive maintenance system and services described herein illustrates a high level overview of an industrial enterprise that leverages cloud based services. The enterprise comprises one or more industrial facilities each having a number of industrial devices and in use. The industrial devices and can make up one or more automation systems operating within the respective facilities . Exemplary automation systems can include but are not limited to batch control systems e.g. mixing systems continuous control systems e.g. PID control systems or discrete control systems. While some aspects of this disclosure are described with reference to either discrete or process control applications it is to be understood that the examples described herein are not limited to either discrete or process control industries or operations. Industrial devices and can include such devices as industrial controllers e.g. programmable logic controllers or other types of programmable automation controllers field devices such as sensors and meters motor drives human machine interfaces HMIs industrial robots barcode markers and readers vision system devices e.g. vision cameras smart welders or other such industrial devices.

Exemplary automation systems can include one or more industrial controllers that facilitate monitoring and control of their respective processes. The controllers exchange data with the field devices using native hardwired I O or via a plant network such as Ethernet IP Data Highway Plus ControlNet Devicenet or the like. A given controller typically receives any combination of digital or analog signals from the field devices indicating a current state of the devices and their associated processes e.g. temperature position part presence or absence fluid level etc. and executes a user defined control program that performs automated decision making for the controlled processes based on the received signals. The controller then outputs appropriate digital and or analog control signaling to the field devices in accordance with the decisions made by the control program. These outputs can include device actuation signals temperature or position control signals operational commands to a machining or material handling robot mixer control signals motion control signals and the like. The control program can comprise any suitable type of code used to process input signals read into the controller and to control output signals generated by the controller including but not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such platforms.

Although the exemplary overview illustrated in depicts the industrial devices and as residing in fixed location industrial facilities the industrial devices may also be part of a mobile control and or monitoring application such as a system contained in a transportation unit e.g. a truck or other service vehicle or in a mobile industrial facility. In another example industrial devices and may comprise devices that perform no control or monitoring of an industrial system but instead function only to feed data to the cloud based analysis system e.g. a mobile weather station .

According to one or more embodiments of this disclosure industrial devices and can be coupled to a cloud platform to leverage cloud based applications and services. That is the industrial devices and can be configured to discover and interact with cloud based computing services hosted by cloud platform . Cloud platform can be any infrastructure that allows shared computing services to be accessed and utilized by cloud capable devices. Cloud platform can be a public cloud accessible via the Internet by devices having Internet connectivity and appropriate authorizations to utilize the services . In some scenarios cloud platform can be provided by a cloud provider as a platform as a service PaaS and the services can reside and execute on the cloud platform as a cloud based service. In some such configurations access to the cloud platform and associated services can be provided to customers as a subscription service by an owner of the services . Alternatively cloud platform can be a private cloud operated internally by the enterprise. An exemplary private cloud platform can comprise a set of servers hosting the cloud services and residing on a corporate network protected by a firewall.

Cloud services can include but are not limited to data storage data analysis control applications e.g. applications that can generate and deliver control instructions to industrial devices and based on analysis of near real time system data or other factors remote monitoring and support device management asset performance management risk assessment services predictive maintenance services enterprise manufacturing intelligence services supply chain performance management virtualization of the customer s plant environment notification services or other such applications. If cloud platform is a web based cloud industrial devices and at the respective industrial facilities may interact with cloud services via the Internet. In an exemplary configuration industrial devices and may access the cloud services through separate cloud gateways at the respective industrial facilities where the industrial devices and connect to the cloud gateways through a physical or wireless local area network or radio link. In another exemplary configuration the industrial devices and may access the cloud platform directly using an integrated cloud gateway service. Cloud gateways may also comprise an integrated component of a network infrastructure device such as a firewall box router or switch.

Providing industrial devices with cloud capability via cloud gateways can offer a number of advantages particular to industrial automation. For one cloud based storage offered by the cloud platform can be easily scaled to accommodate the large quantities of data generated daily by an industrial enterprise. Moreover multiple industrial facilities at different geographical locations can migrate their respective automation data to the cloud platform for aggregation collation collective big data analysis and enterprise level reporting without the need to establish a private network between the facilities. Industrial devices and and or cloud gateways having smart configuration capability can be configured to automatically detect and communicate with the cloud platform upon installation at any facility simplifying integration with existing cloud based data storage analysis or reporting applications used by the enterprise. In another exemplary application cloud based diagnostic applications can access the industrial devices and via cloud gateways to monitor the health and or performance of respective automation systems or their associated industrial devices across an entire plant or across multiple industrial facilities that make up an enterprise. In another example cloud based lot control applications can be used to track a unit of product through its stages of production and collect production data for each unit as it passes through each stage e.g. barcode identifier production statistics for each stage of production quality test data abnormal flags etc. . These industrial cloud computing applications are only intended to be exemplary and the systems and methods described herein are not limited to these particular applications. As these examples demonstrate the cloud platform working with cloud gateways can allow builders of industrial applications to provide scalable solutions as a service removing the burden of maintenance upgrading and backup of the underlying infrastructure and framework.

Cloud capable industrial device can include a user interface component a transformation component a customer profile component a cloud gateway component one or more processors and memory . In various embodiments one or more of the user interface component transformation component customer profile component cloud gateway component the one or more processors and memory can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the cloud capable industrial device . In some embodiments components and can comprise software instructions stored on memory and executed by processor s . Cloud capable device may also interact with other hardware and or software components not depicted in . For example processor s may interact with one or more external user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse a display monitor a touchscreen or other such interface devices.

User interface component can be configured to receive user input and to render output to the user in any suitable format e.g. visual audio tactile etc. . User input can comprise for example configuration information defining whether the cloud aware industrial device is allowed to push data to and or pull data from a cloud platform. User input can also comprise address information for a particular cloud platform or a cloud based application with which the cloud aware industrial device is to communicate. Transformation component can be configured to transform generated or collected industrial data prior to sending the data to the cloud platform. This can include for example normalizing the data in accordance with requirements of a data analytics application on the cloud platform. Transformation component can also append contextual information to the industrial data prior to migration. Such contextual information may be leveraged by cloud based analytics applications to identify relationships correlations and dependencies across the customer s industrial enterprise e.g. using machine learning data mining or other analytical tools . Other transformations can include data compression aggregation filtering encryption or other such data transformations. In some embodiments transformation component can transform the data in accordance with defined a transform profile associated with the cloud aware industrial device which can be configured using input received via the user interface component .

Customer profile component can be configured to associate items of industrial data with customer profile information maintained in the cloud aware industrial device prior to migrating the data to the cloud platform. Customer profile data can include for example a unique customer identifier contact information e.g. email addresses phone numbers etc. or other relevant customer information. Cloud gateway component can be configured to couple the cloud aware industrial device to a web based or private cloud. In one or more embodiments the cloud gateway component can be configured to automatically provide identification and context information relating to its associated industrial device upon connection to the cloud where at least a portion of the identification and context information is provided by the customer profile component and transformation component respectively. This information may be used by some cloud based applications to facilitate integrating the industrial device and its associated data with the larger plant level or enterprise level system. Cloud gateway component can employ any suitable Internet security protocol to ensure that sensitive data including information that associates the customer s identity with unique process data is migrated to the cloud securely.

The one or more processors can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed. Memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed. In some embodiments memory can maintain one or more of a device profile and a customer profile. The device profile can comprise information characterizing the cloud capable industrial device e.g. model number device type current firmware revision etc. . The customer profile can comprise customer specific information such as a customer identifier customer contact information a type of industry that is the focus of the customer s enterprise etc.

Data migration techniques described herein can be embodied on substantially any type of industrial device including but not limited to industrial controllers variable frequency drives VFDs human machine interface HMI terminals telemetry devices industrial robots or other such devices. illustrates an exemplary cloud capable industrial controller with the capability to process and migrate industrial data to a cloud platform. Industrial controller can be for example a programmable logic controller PLC or other type of programmable automation controllers PAC executing control program to facilitate monitoring and control of one or more controlled industrial processes. Control program can be any suitable code used to process input signals read into the controller and to control output signals from the controller including but not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams or structured text. Data read into or generated by controller can be stored in memory addresses within controller memory e.g. native memory or removable storage media .

Industrial controller can exchange data with the controlled industrial processes through I O which can comprise one or more local or remote input and or output modules that communicate with one or more field devices to effect control of the controlled processes. The input and or output modules can include digital modules that send and receive discrete voltage signals to and from the field devices or analog modules that transmit and receive analog voltage or current signals to and from the devices. The input and or output modules can communicate with the controller processor over a backplane or network such that the digital and analog signals are read into and controlled by the control program . Industrial controller can also communicate with field devices over a network using for example a communication module or an integrated networking port. Exemplary networks over which controller can communicate with field devices can include the Internet Intranets Ethernet Ethernet IP DeviceNet ControlNet Data Highway and Data Highway Plus DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus wireless networks serial protocols and the like. It is to be appreciated that industrial controller is not limited to the above specifications and can be any suitable controller used to control an industrial process.

During operation industrial controller generates or collects near real time data relating to the controlled processes such as part counts temperatures motor speeds or loads vibration data weights quality test results alarms machine states operator feedback or other such information. Some of this data is read by the industrial controller directly from field devices e.g. telemetry devices associated with the processes themselves while some data can be generated by control program based on measured process values. The data collected or generated by industrial controller data raw data can be stored in non volatile memory associated with the industrial controller or may only exist on a transient basis e.g. near real time machine state data that only exists within the controller as long as the machine remains in the indicated state but is not stored in non volatile memory .

Industrial controller is configured to be cloud aware allowing it to connect to a web based or private cloud platform and utilize cloud based services hosted thereon e.g. data storage analysis processing etc. . To this end industrial controller can include a cloud gateway component that couples the industrial controller to the cloud. Cloud gateway component can be configured to access the cloud through any suitable hardwired or wireless connection to the Internet e.g. through a network connection to an Internet server or through cloud gateway of . In one or more embodiments cloud gateway component can execute an auto configuration routine that facilitates connection of industrial controller to the cloud. In accordance with this auto configuration routine the cloud gateway component can provide information to the cloud services about the industrial controller the owner of the industrial controller and optionally a context of the industrial controller within the overall enterprise or plant hierarchy.

In order to place the raw industrial data in a format suitable for storage and analysis on the cloud platform cloud aware industrial controller can include a transformation component configured to modify or enhance raw data generated or collected by the industrial controller into transformed data prior to sending the data to the cloud. In accordance with determined requirements of the cloud applications that will be processing the industrial data e.g. predictive maintenance applications risk assessment applications cloud based simulation applications etc. transformation component can filter prune re format aggregate summarize or compress the raw data to yield transformed data . In one or more embodiments the transformation component can modify the raw data based on an explicit or inferred requirement of the cloud application user defined transform profiles instructing how various categories of raw data are to be transformed prior to being pushed to the cloud and or contextual metadata that provides context for the raw data.

Turning briefly to a block diagram of an exemplary transformation component is illustrated. As discussed above transformation component can be incorporated in an industrial device such as an industrial controller meter sensor motor drive robot or other such industrial devices. Transformation component can receive raw data generated or collected by the host industrial device and modify the raw data into transformed data that is better suited to cloud computing applications.

To this end transformation component can include one or more of a normalization component a context component an encryption component a filter component an aggregation component or a compression component . Normalization component can be configured to convert any specified subset of raw data from a first format to a second format in accordance with a requirement of the cloud based application thereby normalizing the data for collective analysis with data from other disparate data sources. For example a cloud based predictive maintenance application may require measured values in a particular common format so that dependencies and correlations between different data sets from disparate industrial assets can be identified and analyzed. Accordingly normalization component can convert a selected subset of the raw data from a native format to the required common format prior to pushing the data to the cloud based predictive maintenance application. Normalizing the raw data at the industrial device before uploading to the cloud rather than requiring this transformation to be performed on the cloud can reduce the amount of processing load on the cloud side. However in some embodiments the data may be normalized by the cloud based application itself rather than by the normalization component on the industrial device. Such embodiments may reduce the processing load on the industrial devices themselves which may be preferable for highly critical control applications.

Context component can append contextual metadata to the raw data thereby providing the cloud based services with useful context information for the industrial data. Context metadata can include but is not limited to a time date stamp a quality value a location associated with the data e.g. a geographical location a production area etc. machine statuses at the time the data was generated or other such contextual information which can be used by the cloud based application in connection with cloud side analysis. Turning briefly to an exemplary context component for transforming raw data into contextualized data is illustrated. Context component receives raw data and modifies or enhances the raw data with one or more pieces of context data to yield contextualized data . For example context component can apply a time stamp to the raw data indicating a time a date and or a production shift when the data was generated. The applied context data may also include a production area that yielded the data a particular product that was being produced when the data was generated a state of a machine e.g. auto semi auto abnormal etc. at the time the data was generated and or a role of the device within the context of the industrial process. Other examples of context information include an employee on shift at the time the data was generated a lot number with which the data is associated or an alarm that was active at the time the data was generated. Context component can also apply an actionable data tag to the raw data if it is determined that the data requires action to be taken by plant personnel or by the cloud based application. In yet another example context information can include data describing behavior of a monitored device or machine relative to other related machines such as timings of staggered start sequences or load shedding sequences. In an example scenario such data could be used by the cloud based services to predict or diagnose behavior of a given device or machine based on behavior or conditions of other devices on the same production line.

Context component an also apply contextual information to the raw data that reflects the data s location within a hierarchical organizational model. Such an organization model can represent an industrial enterprise in terms of multiple hierarchical levels. In an exemplary organizational model the hierarchical levels can include from lowest to highest a workcell level a line level an area level a site level and an enterprise level. Devices that are components of a given automation system can be described and identified in terms of these hierarchical levels allowing a common terminology to be used across the entire enterprise to identify devices machines and data within the enterprise. In some embodiments the organizational model can be known to the context component which can stamp the raw data with a hierarchical identification tag that indicates the data s origin within the organizational hierarchy e.g. 

Returning now to transformation component may also include an encryption component configured to encrypt sensitive data prior to upload to the cloud. Transformation component can also include a filter component configured to filter the raw data according to any specified filtering criterion e.g. as defined in a transform profile associated with the cloud aware industrial controller . For example a transform profile may specify that pressure values below a defined setpoint are to be filtered out prior to uploading the pressure values to the cloud. Accordingly filter component can implement this requirement by removing pressure valves that fall below the setpoint prior to moving the data to the cloud.

Aggregation component can be configured to combine related data from multiple sources. For example data from multiple sensors measuring related aspects of an automation system can be identified and aggregated into a single cloud upload packet by aggregation component . Compression component can compress data to be uploaded to the cloud using any suitable data compression algorithm. This can include detection and deletion of redundant data bits truncation of precision bits or other suitable compression operations.

Transformation component is not limited to the transformation operations described above in connection with components and any suitable data transformation is within the scope of certain embodiments of this disclosure.

Returning now to the transformed data can be further modified by appending data from one or both of a device profile or a customer profile stored in profile storage of the industrial device. Device profile contains information that characterizes industrial controller including but not limited to a device identifier e.g. a model number serial number vendor identifier etc. and a current configuration of the device e.g. current firmware version loaded on the device current operating system etc. . Customer profile contains information identifying the customer e.g. owner of industrial controller and associated industrial assets and relevant customer specific information such as personnel contact information the customer s industry etc. As will be discussed in more detail below the customer specific and device specific information contained in customer profile and device profile can be used by cloud based services in a number of ways including but not limited to device management and version control alarm notification etc.

Profiled data comprising the transformed data appended with information from device profile and or customer profile is then sent to the cloud platform by cloud gateway component . Services residing on the cloud platform can process the profiled data according to defined functionality of the cloud based services. For example data collection services on the cloud platform can store the received industrial data in customer specific cloud storage based on the customer profile data. In another example cloud based device management services can compare the current device information provided by device profile with product information maintained on cloud storage to determine whether upgrades or software updates are available for the industrial controller . In yet another example cloud based analytics services can analyze the received data collectively with data received from other devices assets and industrial enterprises in order to learn industry specific trends provide predictive maintenance notifications generate risk assessment reports identify system configurations or best practices that result in superior performance or other services.

Although illustrates certain aspects of the present disclosure in connection with an industrial controller it is to be appreciated that the transformation component customer profile component profile storage and cloud gateway component can be implemented on any suitable industrial device that generates or collects data in connection with monitoring or controlling an industrial process. For example a variable frequency drive VFD used in a motor control application can be provided with cloud interface capabilities so that motion control data e.g. motor speeds electrical draw motor positions overload conditions etc. can be pushed to the cloud for storage or analysis. Accordingly such VFDs can include a transformation component that massages and or contextualizes the data prior to uploading the data to the cloud. Similarly telemetry devices e.g. flow meters weigh scales voltage meters pressure meters sensors etc. can be configured to refine their respective metered data for upload to the cloud. Moreover in some embodiments an industrial device can be configured to serve as a proxy for other industrial devices wherein the proxy device receives industrial data from other devices comprising an automation system transforms the collected data as needed and uploads the results to the cloud. In this way redundant data collected by multiple devices can be identified and streamlined by the proxy device prior to pushing the data to the cloud reducing bandwidth and storage consumption.

As noted above industrial data can be migrated from industrial devices to the cloud platform using cloud gateways. To this end some devices may include integrated cloud gateways that directly interface each device to the cloud platform. Alternatively some configurations may utilize a cloud proxy device that collects industrial data from multiple devices and sends the data to the cloud platform. Such a cloud proxy can comprise a dedicated data collection device such as a proxy server that shares a network with the industrial devices. Alternatively the cloud proxy can be a peer industrial device that collects data from other industrial devices.

In the configuration depicted in industrial device acts as a proxy for industrial devices whereby data from devices is sent to the cloud via proxy industrial device . Industrial devices can deliver their data to proxy industrial device over plant network or backplane e.g. a Common Industrial Protocol CIP network or other suitable network protocol . Using such a configuration it is only necessary to interface one industrial device to the cloud platform via cloud gateway component . In some embodiments cloud gateway component or a separate transformation component e.g. transformation component may perform preprocessing on the gathered data prior to migrating the data to the cloud platform e.g. time stamping filtering formatting summarizing compressing etc. . The collected and processed data can then be pushed to the cloud platform as cloud data via cloud gateway component . Once migrated cloud based data analyzer services can classify the data according to techniques described in more detail below.

While the proxy device illustrated in is depicted as an industrial device that itself performs monitoring and or control of a portion of controlled process es other types of devices can also be configured to serve as a cloud proxies for multiple industrial devices according to one or more embodiments of this disclosure. For example illustrates an embodiment in which a firewall box serves as a cloud proxy for a set of industrial devices . Firewall box can act as a network infrastructure device that allows plant network to access an outside network such as the Internet while also providing firewall protection that prevents unauthorized access to the plant network from the Internet. In addition to these firewall functions the firewall box can include a cloud gateway component that interfaces the firewall box with one or more cloud based services. In a similar manner to proxy industrial device of the firewall box can collect industrial data from industrial devices which monitor and control respective portions of controlled process es . Firewall box can include a cloud gateway component that applies appropriate pre processing to the gathered industrial data prior to pushing the data to cloud based analytics systems as cloud data . Firewall box can allow industrial devices to interact with the cloud platform without directly exposing the industrial devices to the Internet.

Similar to industrial controller described above in connection with industrial device or firewall box can tag the collected industrial data with contextual metadata prior to pushing the data to the cloud platform e.g. using a transformation component . Such contextual metadata can include for example a time stamp a location of the device at the time the data was generated or other such information. In another example some cloud aware devices can comprise smart devices capable of determining their own context within the plant or enterprise environment. Such devices can determine their location within a hierarchical plant context or device topology. Knowledge of the location of a given device or machine within the context of the larger plant hierarchy can yield useful insights that can be leveraged for predictive analysis. For example an operational demand on a given machine on a production line can be anticipated based on an observed increase in demand on other machines on the same line based on the known relationship between the respective machines. Data generated by such devices can be normalized to adhere to a hierarchical plant model that defines multiple hierarchical levels of an industrial enterprise e.g. a workcell level a line level an area level a site level an enterprise level etc. such that the data is identified in terms of these hierarchical levels. This can allow a common terminology to be used across an entire industrial enterprise to identify devices and their associated data. Cloud based applications and services that model an enterprise according to such an organizational hierarchy can represent industrial controllers devices machines or processes as data structures e.g. type instances within this organizational hierarchy to provide context for data generated by devices within the enterprise relative to the enterprise as a whole. Such a convention can replace the flat name structure employed by some industrial applications.

In some embodiments cloud gateway components and can comprise uni directional data only gateways that are configured only to move data from the premises to the cloud platform. Alternatively cloud gateway components and can comprise bi directional data and configuration gateways that are additionally configured to receive configuration or instruction data from services running on the cloud platform. Some cloud gateways may utilize store and forward technology that allows the gathered industrial data to be temporarily stored locally on storage associated with the cloud gateway in the event that communication between the gateway and cloud platform is disrupted. In such events the cloud gateways will forward the stored data to the cloud platform when the communication link is re established.

Analysis system can organize manufacturing data collected from industrial systems according to various classes. In the illustrated example manufacturing data is classified according to device data process data asset data and system data . illustrates a hierarchical relationship between these example data classes. A given plant or supply chain can comprise one or more industrial systems . Systems represent the production lines or productions areas within a given plant facility or across multiple facilities of a supply chain. Each system is made up of a number of assets representing the machines and equipment that make up the system e.g. the various stages of a production line . In general each asset is made up of multiple devices which can include for example the programmable controllers motor drives human machine interfaces HMIs sensors meters etc. comprising the asset . The various data classes depicted in are only intended to be exemplary and it is to be appreciated that any organization of industrial data classes maintained by analysis system is within the scope of one or more embodiments of this disclosure.

Returning now to analysis system collects and maintains data from the various devices and assets that make up industrial systems and classifies the data according to the aforementioned classes for the purposes of collective analysis. Device data can comprise device level information relating to the identity configuration and status of the respective devices comprising industrial systems including but not limited to device identifiers device statuses current firmware versions health and diagnostic data device documentation identification and relationship of neighboring devices that interact with the device etc.

Process data can comprise information relating to one or more processes or other automation operations carried out by the devices e.g. device level and process level faults and alarms process variable values speeds temperatures pressures etc. and the like.

Asset data can comprise information generated collected or inferred based on data aggregated from multiple industrial devices over time which can yield a higher asset level views of industrial systems . Example asset data can include performance indicators KPIs for the respective assets asset level process variables faults alarms etc. Since asset data yields a longer term view of asset characteristics relative to the device and process data analysis system can leverage asset data to identify operational patterns and correlations unique to each asset among other types of analysis. The system can use such patterns and correlations for example to identify common performance trends as a function of asset configuration for different types of industrial applications.

System data can comprise collected or inferred information generated based on data aggregated from multiple assets over time. System data can characterize system behavior within a large system of assets yielding a system level view of each industrial system . System data can also document the particular system configurations in use and industrial operations performed at each industrial system . For example system data can document the arrangement of assets interconnections between devices the product being manufactured at a given facility an industrial process performed by the assets a category of industry of each industrial system e.g. automotive oil and gas food and drug marine textiles etc. or other relevant information. Among other functions this data can be leveraged by analysis system so that particulars of the customer s unique system and device configurations can be obtained without reliance on the customer to possess complete knowledge of their assets.

As an example a given industrial facility can include packaging line the system which in turn can comprise a number of individual assets a filler a labeler a capper a palletizer etc. . Each asset comprises a number of devices controllers variable frequency drives HMIs etc. . Using an architecture similar to that depicted in cloud based analysis system can collect industrial data from the individual devices during operation and classify the data in a customer data store according to the aforementioned classifications. Note that some data may be duplicated across more than one class. For example a process variable classified under process data may also be relevant to the asset level view of the system represented by asset data . Accordingly such process variables may be classified under both classes. Moreover subsets of data in one classification may be derived or inferred based on data under another classification. Subsets of system data that characterize certain system behaviors for example may be inferred based on a long term analysis of data in the lower level classifications.

In addition to maintaining data classes each customer data store can also maintain a customer model containing data specific to a given industrial entity or customer. Customer model contains customer specific information and preferences at least some of which may be received from one or more industrial devices using customer profile which can be leveraged by analysis system to better customize data analysis and to determine how analysis results should be handled or reported. Example information maintained in customer model can include a client identifier client contact information specifying which plant personnel should be notified in response to detection of risk factors e.g. for embodiments that support real time risk assessment monitoring notification preferences specifying how plant personnel should be notified e.g. email mobile phone text message etc. preferred data upload frequencies service contracts that are active between the customer and a provider of the cloud based analysis services the customer s industrial concern e.g. automotive pharmaceutical oil and gas etc. and other such information. Cloud based analysis system can many data collected for each customer with the customer model for identification and event handling purposes. In some embodiments the cloud based system can serve a custom interface to client devices of authorized plant personnel to facilitate entering or editing the customer model . In other embodiments all or portions of the customer model can be updated in near real time based on data maintained on a local server on the plant facility. For example if an engineering manager is replaced an administrator at the plant facility may update a locally maintained employee database with the name and contact information for the new manager. The employee database may be communicatively linked to the cloud platform such that the contact information stored in the customer model is automatically updated to replace the contact information of the outgoing manager with the new employee contact information.

To ensure a rich and descriptive set of data for analysis purposes cloud based analysis services can collect device data in accordance with one or more standardized device models. To this end a standardized device model can be developed for each industrial device. Device models profile the device data that is available to be collected and maintained by the cloud based services. illustrates an example device model according to one or more embodiments. In the illustrated example device model is associated with a cloud aware industrial device e.g. a programmable logic controller a variable frequency drive a human machine interface a vision camera a barcode marking system etc. . As a cloud aware device industrial device can be configured to automatically detect and communicate with cloud platform upon installation at a plant facility simplifying integration with existing cloud based data storage analysis and applications e.g. the risk assessment system described herein . When added to an existing industrial automation system device can communicate with the cloud platform and send identification and configuration information in the form of device model to the cloud platform. Information provided by device model can be maintained in a device profile e.g. device profile of stored on the industrial device .

Device model can be received by a device management component on cloud platform which then updates the customer s device data based on the device model . In this way cloud based analysis systems can leverage the device model to integrate the new device into the greater system as a whole. This integration can include updating cloud based applications to recognize the new device adding the new device to a dynamically updated data model of the customer s industrial enterprise or plant making other devices on the plant floor aware of the new device or other such integration functions. Once deployed some data items defined by device model can be collected by cloud based data collection systems and in some embodiments can be monitored by the cloud based system on a near real time basis.

Device model can comprise such information as a device identifier e.g. model and serial number status information for the device a currently installed firmware version device setup data device warranty specifications calculated and anticipated KPIs associated with the device e.g. mean time between failures device health and diagnostic information device documentation or other such parameters.

In addition to maintaining individual customer specific data stores for each industrial enterprise the cloud based analytics services can also feed sets of customer data to a global data storage referred to herein as Big Data for Manufacturing or BDFM data storage for collective big data analysis in the cloud. As illustrated in a device interface component on the cloud platform can collect data from devices and assets comprising respective different industrial systems for storage in cloud based BDFM data storage . In some embodiments data maintained in BDFM data storage can be collected anonymously with the consent of the respective customers. For example customers may enter into a service agreement with a technical support entity whereby the customer agrees to have their device and asset data collected in the cloud platform in exchange for cloud based analytics services e.g. predictive maintenance services risk assessment services plant modeling services real time asset monitoring etc. . The data maintained in BDFM data storage can include all or portions of the classified customer specific data described in connection with as well as additional inferred data. BDFM data storage can organize the collected data according to device type system type application type applicable industry or other relevant categories. An analysis component can analyze the resulting multi industry multi customer data store to learn industry specific device specific and or application specific trends patterns thresholds etc. In general analysis component can perform big data analysis on the multi enterprise data maintained BDFM data storage to learn and characterize operational trends or patterns as a function of industry type application type equipment in use asset configurations device configuration settings or other such variables.

For example it may be known that a given industrial asset e.g. a device a configuration of device a machine etc. is used across different industries for different types of industrial applications. Accordingly analysis component can identify a subset of the global data stored in BDFM data storage relating to the asset or asset type and perform analysis on this subset of data to determine how the asset or asset type performs over time for each of multiple different industries or types of industrial applications. Analysis component may also determine the operational behavior of the asset over time for each of different sets of operating constraints or parameters e.g. different ranges of operating temperatures or pressures different recipe ingredients or ingredient types etc. . By leveraging a large amount of historical data gathered from many different industrial systems analysis component can learn common operating characteristics of many diverse configurations of industrial assets at a high degree of granularity and under many different operating contexts.

Additionally analysis component can learn a priori conditions that often presage impending operational failures or system degradations based on analysis of this global data. The knowledge gleaned through such analysis can be leveraged to detect and identify early warning conditions indicative of future system failures or inefficiencies for a given customer s industrial system identify possible modifications to the customer s industrial assets that may improve performance e.g. increase product throughput reduce downtime occurrences etc. or other such services. In some embodiments analysis component can compare operational behavior of similar industrial applications across different device hardware platform or software configuration settings and make a determination regarding which combination of hardware and or configuration settings yield preferred operational performance. Moreover analysis component can compare data across different verticals to determine whether system configurations or methodologies used at one vertical could beneficially be packaged and implemented for another vertical. Cloud based services could use such determinations as the basis for customer specific recommendations. In general BDFM data storage together with analysis component can serve as a repository for knowledge capture and best practices for a wide range of industries industrial applications and device combinations.

As noted above some embodiments of the cloud based analysis system described herein may require data from different sources to be normalized in order to facilitate collective analysis. To this end plant floor devices such as industrial controller of may be configured to normalize their generated data to conform to a common standard and or format prior to migrating the data to the cloud. Alternatively as illustrated in normalization of the data can be performed on the cloud platform after migration of the data. In such embodiments a normalization component can receive the collected multi enterprise data from device interface component and normalize the data according to the required format before moving the data to BDFM data storage and or customer data store .

Accordingly industry filter identifies a subset of the BDFM data collected from industrial assets in the relevant industry. The relevant subset of industry specific data can be identified for example based on information in the customer model associated with each customer data store see which can identify the industry or vertical with which each customer is associated.

The industry specific data comprising the subset of BDFM data relating to the industry of interest can then be filtered by application filter which identifies a subset of the industry specific data relating to a particular industrial application e.g. a specific batch process motor control application control loop application barcode tracking application etc. within that industry. The resulting application specific data comprises data e.g. operational data abnormal or downtime data product throughput data energy consumption data etc. collected from multiple industrial assets at different industrial enterprises that perform the specified industrial application within the industry of interest. The industrial assets represented by application specific data while carrying out a common industrial application may comprise different asset configurations e.g. different device combinations different software code different firmware versions or operating systems etc. .

In order to identify trends or operating characteristics as a function of the different asset configurations a grouping component can segregate application specific data into groups of configuration specific data . Grouping component can group the data according to any suitable asset configuration variable including but not limited to device model device configuration settings firmware version software code executed on one or more industrial devices comprising the industrial assets or other variable asset characteristics. Grouping the application specific data in this manner results in N groups of data where each group comprises data collected from multiple similarly configured industrial assets devices that perform a specific industrial application within a specified industry or vertical. Each group can comprise data from multiple industrial enterprises and customers so that analysis component can identify configuration specific performance trends propensity for device failures downtime patterns energy consumption operating costs or other such performance metrics as a function of the configuration aspect selected as the grouping criterion.

Filtering and grouping the BDFM data in this manner allows particular asset configurations to be isolated and analyzed individually e.g. using machine learning data mining or other analysis technique so that asset performance trends can be identified for various asset configurations. These results can then be compared across the sets of configuration specific data in order to characterize these learned performance metrics as a function of the variable asset configurations corresponding to the configuration specific groups. This analysis allows the cloud based analysis system to generate asset configuration recommendations to specific customers as will be discussed in more detail below.

Analysis system can also maintain product resource information in cloud based product resource data storage . In general product resource data storage can maintain up to date information relating to specific industrial devices or other vendor products. Product data stored in product resource data storage can be administered by one or more product vendors or original equipment manufacturers OEMs . Exemplary device specific data maintained by product resource data storage can include product serial numbers most recent firmware revisions preferred device configuration settings and or software for a given type of industrial application or other such vendor provided information.

Additionally one or more embodiments of cloud based analysis system can also leverage extrinsic data collected from sources external to the customer s industrial enterprise but which may have relevance to operation of the customer s industrial systems. Example extrinsic data can include for example energy cost data material cost and availability data transportation schedule information from companies that provide product transportation services for the customer market indicator data web site traffic statistics information relating to known information security breaches or threats or other such information. Cloud based analysis system can retrieve extrinsic data from substantially any data source e.g. servers or other data storage devices linked to the Internet cloud based storage that maintains extrinsic data of interest or other sources.

The system depicted in can provide analysis services to subscribing customers e.g. owners of industrial assets . For example customers may enter an agreement with a product vendor or technical support entity to allow their system data to be gathered and fed anonymously into BDFM data storage that is the customer s system data is stored in BDFM storage without linking the system data to the customer s identity thereby expanding the store of global data available for collective analysis. In exchange the vendor or technical support entity can agree to provide customized data analysis services to the customer e.g. predictive maintenance notifications real time system monitoring automated email alerting services automated technical support notification risk assessment etc. . Alternatively the customer may subscribe to one or more available cloud analytics services and optionally allow their system data to be maintained in BDFM data storage . In some embodiments a customer may be given an option to subscribe to cloud analytics services without permitting their data to be stored in BDFM data storage for collective analysis with data from other systems. In such cases the customer s data may only be maintained as customer data e.g. in customer data store for the purposes of providing customized analysis and notification services and the collected customer data will be analyzed in view of BDFM data storage and product resource data storage without being migrated to BDFM data storage for long term storage and collective analysis. In another exemplary agreement customers may be offered a discount on cloud analytics services in exchange for allowing their system data to be anonymously migrated to BDFM data storage for collective analysis.

Since the cloud based analysis system maintains accurate and detailed documentation of each customer s devices assets and system configurations on cloud storage analysis system can generate customized system configuration recommendations based on comparison of the user s system configuration and or performance data with multi enterprise data collected in BDFM data storage . depicts generation of a system assessment report based on comparative analysis of customer specific data from a customer data store with multi enterprise data collected and maintained in BDFM data storage on the cloud platform. As described above customer specific data can include information characterizing one or more of the customer s industrial assets including but not limited to the industrial devices in use and their functional relationship to one another the customer s industry an industrial application being carried out by the industrial assets e.g. a particular batch process a lot traceability function an assembly operation a control loop etc. performance metrics measured over time for the assets etc.

In this example an analysis component executing as a service on the cloud platform analyzes the customer specific data in view of the groups of configuration specific data identified using the techniques described above in connection with . For example customer specific data may comprise data collected from a particular industrial asset or system for performing a common industrial application within a particular industry e.g. a batch process in the customer s plastics facility . Accordingly industry filter can identify a subset of the multi enterprise data maintained in BDFM data storage collected from plastics industries and application filter can further filter this industry specific data to isolate data relating to the batch process of interest. Grouping component can then aggregate subsets of this application specific data according to a selected configuration aspect e.g. device models that make up the assets firmware versions loaded on one or more of the devices one or more device parameter settings etc. . This filtering and grouping process results in groups of configuration specific data where each group corresponds to a different value or setting of the selected configuration aspect.

Analysis component can then analyze customer specific data to determine which configuration group most closely aligns with the customer s particular asset configuration. For example if the configuration specific data is grouped according to firmware version such that each group corresponds to a different firmware version installed on a particular device analysis component can determine which firmware version is being used by the customer e.g. based on the device data maintained on the customer data store and match the customer specific data to the group of configuration specific data corresponding to this firmware version. In this way analysis component identifies a subset of configuration and performance data collected from systems that are broadly similar to the customer s industrial assets. Leveraging this vast set of multi enterprise data allows analysis component to generate customized predictions and recommendations relevant to the customer s particular industrial assets.

For example analysis component can generate a system assessment report identifying predicted asset performance issues based on analysis of the configuration specific data group identified as being analogous to the customer s system. In this scenario analytics component may infer based on the relevant configuration specific data group that devices using the same firmware version in use at the customer s facility for similar industrial applications experience a relatively high number of downtime occurrences or compatibility issues with other devices. Accordingly system assessment report can identify these predicted asset performance and device compatibility issues as potential concerns. In another example system assessment report can comprise a risk assessment report that identifies one or more potential risk factors associated with the customer s system based on analysis of the relevant configuration specific data . Such risk factors can include for example risk of device failure or degraded performance safety risks lost revenue opportunities risks of inventory shortage network security risks etc. For each identified risk factor the risk assessment report can also include a description of possible effects that realization of the risk factor may have on the customer s overall operation possible financial impact and or one or more risk aversion recommendations for mitigating the risk factor.

By virtue of the configuration specific data groupings identified by the cloud based analysis system analysis component can also compare the user s industrial asset configurations with other alternative configurations for implementing the same industrial application e.g. configurations corresponding to other configuration specific data groups . Continuing with the firmware example described above analysis component may determine based on comparison of performance data across the configuration specific data groups that systems using a different firmware version relative to the version currently installed on the user s system generally experience fewer downtime occurrences experience greater product throughput consume less energy etc. Based on this observation system assessment report may include a recommendation to install the preferred firmware version on the appropriate industrial device. System assessment report can also recommend other configuration modifications using similar techniques e.g. replacement of an existing device to a different device model modification of existing parameter settings reconfiguration of a portion of the plant network etc. .

In another example configuration specific data may be grouped according to program code used to execute the industrial application thereby allowing analysis component to compare performance metrics for the different groups as a function of program code. Accordingly customer specific data may include information relating to the program code in use on the customer s particular system. Based on this information analysis component can compare the code in use at the customer facility with alternative programs used at other facilities to determine whether one of these alternative programming may improve performance of the customer s system. These alternative programs can be identified in system assessment report .

In addition to the features discussed above one or more embodiments can provide cloud based device management services that assist users with device upgrade notification and management. illustrates a cloud based system for generating automated notifications of device upgrade opportunities. In one or more embodiments users may enter an agreement with a provider of the device management services to allow their basic device data to be collected and monitored in the cloud platform in exchange for automated alerting services. Such agreements may allow the user e.g. the owner of the industrial assets being monitored to select from one or more device management options including but not limited to firmware upgrade notifications configuration management recommendations program upload and compare services or other device management services.

Based on the service agreement one or more devices of the user s industrial assets e.g. cloud aware smart device can provide device and customer data to the cloud platform using techniques described above. For example cloud aware smart device can be similar to industrial controller of such that device maintains a device profile and a customer profile . Device can provide at least a portion of the data stored in these profiles to the cloud platform using cloud gateway component . This data can include but is not limited to a device identifier e.g. device model number a customer identifier contact information for the customer e.g. email addresses for plant personnel who should be notified in the event of a detected upgrade opportunity or configuration recommendation configuration data for the device e.g. a firmware version parameter settings program code etc. or other such information.

Device management component can receive this device and customer data in the cloud platform and cross reference this data with product version data maintained in product resource data storage . For example device management component may submit the device identifier received from the smart device to product resource data storage to determine whether a newer version of the device is currently available or of a newer firmware version is available for the device. Since product resource data storage is kept up to date with the most recent product availability information device management component is able compare the user s current device information with the product availability information on a near real time basis and notify the user when an upgrade opportunity is detected. If a newer device or firmware version is detected device management component can instruct a notification component to send a notification to one or more client devices specified by the contact information provided in device and customer data or specified on customer model .

To facilitate accurate system analysis that considers not only the devices in use at a customer facility but also the relationships between the devices and their context within the larger enterprise some embodiments of the cloud based analysis system can maintain a plant model for a given industrial enterprise based on the data collected as described above. To this end services executing on the cloud platform can facilitate automatic integration of new or existing industrial devices into the plant model. Pursuant to an example illustrates automatic integration of a cloud aware smart device within a larger device hierarchy. In this example a cloud aware smart device installed as part of an industrial automation system within an industrial enterprise communicates with a cloud platform through an Internet layer. In some scenarios cloud gateway component can initiate communication with the cloud platform upon installation and power up of cloud aware smart device where the particular cloud platform or cloud based application with which the device communicates is specified in a configuration file associated with the device. Once communication is established cloud aware smart device can begin exchanging cloud data with the cloud platform. Although cloud gateway component is depicted in as exchanging cloud data directly with the cloud platform in some scenarios cloud gateway component may communicate with the cloud platform via a separate cloud gateway or other proxy device as described above.

In the present example cloud aware smart device communicates with device management component running on the cloud platform. Device management component can maintain a plant model that models the industrial enterprise and devices therein. Plant model can represent the industrial enterprise in terms of multiple hierarchical levels where each level comprises units of the enterprise organized as instances of types and their properties. Exemplary types can include for example assets e.g. pumps extruders tanks fillers welding cells utility meters etc. structures e.g. production lines production areas plants enterprises production schedules operators etc. and processes e.g. quality audit repairs test inspection batch product parameters shifts etc. .

Plant model allows devices of an automation system and data items stored therein to be described and identified in terms of these hierarchical levels allowing a common terminology to be used across the entire enterprise to identify devices and data associated with those devices. Thus individual items of device data e.g. live analog and digital values stored in controller tags archived data values stored in a historian register or other long term data storage device etc. when integrated into plant model can be identified and viewed by other applications using unique tags defined by plant model . Plant model can represent industrial controllers devices machines or processes as data structures e.g. type instances within this organizational hierarchy to provide context for data generated and stored throughout the enterprise relative to the enterprise as a whole.

Device management component can leverage device model information provided by cloud aware smart device to facilitate auto discovery of the smart device and creation of corresponding data structures representing the smart device in plant model . For example when cloud aware smart device is added to an industrial system of an enterprise the device s cloud gateway component can send information from device profile to device management component on the cloud platform. Device management component can thereby automatically detect the device and determine the device s context within the organizational hierarchy modeled by plant model and reconfigure plant model to incorporate the newly added device at the appropriate location within the organizational hierarchy. This can include identifying data tags available within cloud aware smart device and making those data tags available for viewing or retrieval by authorized applications using the hierarchical naming structure defined by plant model .

In some embodiments cloud aware smart device can generate a portion of the device hierarchy represented by plant model and provide this information to the cloud platform to facilitate accurately representing this portion of the device hierarchy within plant model . For example if cloud aware smart device is an industrial controller that monitors and or controls one or more production areas the smart industrial controller can generate a hierarchical representation of the production areas production lines workcells etc. of which it has knowledge as well as devices associated therewith e.g. I O devices or subservient control systems that interface with the industrial controller . Cloud gateway component can provide this portion of the enterprise hierarchy to the cloud platform and device management component can update plant model accordingly. Data provided by cloud aware smart device together with plant model can be leveraged by any suitable cloud services residing on the cloud platform including the cloud based analysis services described herein.

Since the cloud based analysis services described herein can associate geographically diverse data with a customer identifier e.g. customer model and aggregate this data in a cloud platform the system can take advantage of the large amounts of diverse data from all stages of a supply chain to identify factors at one stage that impact quality or performance elsewhere in the chain. This can include collection and analysis of data from material or parts suppliers distributors inventory sales and end user feedback on the finished product. illustrates an exemplary cloud based architecture for tracking product data through an industrial supply chain and identifying correlations and relationships across the supply chain. A simplified supply chain can include a supplier a manufacturing facility a warehouse and a retail entity . However the supply chain can comprise more or fewer entities without departing from the scope of this disclosure. For simplicity depicts a single block for each supply chain entity. However it is to be appreciated that a given supply chain can comprise multiple entities for each entity type. For example a manufacturing facility may rely on materials provided by multiple suppliers. Likewise the supply chain may include multiple warehouse entities to provide storage for various products produced by the manufacturing facility shared distribution centers and multiple retail entities for selling the products to end customers.

The various supply chain entities can generate a large amount of data in connection with their roles in the supply chain. For example supplier and manufacturing facility can include plant floor devices that generate near real time and historical industrial data relating to production of the materials or products as well as business level information relating to purchase orders intakes shipments enterprise resource planning ERP and the like. Warehouse can maintain records of incoming and outgoing product product quality constraints such as storage temperatures and current inventory levels for respective products. Retail entity can track sales retail inventory lost or damaged product financial information demand metrics and other such information. Additional information relating to transportation of materials or products between stages of the supply chain can also be generated including but not limited to geographical location obtained from global positioning systems.

According to one or more embodiments data sources associated with each of the supply chain entities can provide industrial or business data to cloud platform to facilitate cloud based tracking of products through the supply chain and prediction of potential quality issues. Cloud platform can execute a number of services that aggregate and correlate data provided by the various supply chain stages and provide information about a product s state within the supply chain based on the analysis. These cloud based services can include but are not limited to tracking the product s physical location within the supply chain providing metrics relating to the flow of products through the supply chain or identifying and trouble shooting current and predicted inefficiencies in product flows through the supply chain.

In a non limiting example cloud based services may note a spike in negative feedback from purchasers of the end product e.g. based on survey data collected from retail entity . Using analytics similar to those described in previous examples cloud based analysis services can trace the cause of the reported quality issue to changes made to an upstream process of the supply chain such as a new material supplier providing an inferior ingredient an equipment upgrade at the manufacturing facility that may have had an impact on product quality or other such factor. Analysis at the supply chain level can involve analysis over longer durations than those involve for plant level or batch level troubleshooting since supply chain characteristics are characterized by data collected throughout the supply chain workflow.

In addition to the analytics features described above collection of a customer s device asset process and system data in the cloud platform in association with a customer model establishes a framework for other types of services. For example a cloud based advertising system can generate target advertisements based on a customer s current devices in service known customer preferences stored in the customer model or other factors obtainable from the customer s data store. Such advertisements could direct customers to alternative devices that could replace supplement or enhance their existing equipment.

Moreover the volume of customer specific data and diverse global data gathered and maintained by the cloud based analytics system can be leveraged to generate reports that offer multi dimensional views of a customer s industrial assets and processes. For example based on analysis of the data maintained in the customer data stores the cloud based services can calculate or anticipate customer specific KPIs for a given industrial system or asset. Additionally reports can be generated that benchmark these customer specific KPIs against the global multi customer data set maintained in the BDFM data store.

As noted above in connection with the various types of cloud side analyses described above can correlate extrinsic data with the customer specific and multi enterprise data in order to provide recommendations alerts or other information to the customer regarding the configuration or operation of their industrial assets. In this regard cloud based analysis system can learn relationships between extrinsic data and operation of the customer s industrial system and identify aspects of the customer s operations that may be a partial function of events outside the industrial enterprise or supply chain. For example extrinsic data may comprise in part current health statistics collected from a medical database. The medical database may comprise a server maintained by a government health organization that is publicly accessible via the Internet or may comprise cloud based storage that maintains publically accessible health statistics. Based on analysis of this extrinsic data analysis component may identify an increase in reported influenza cases for a geographical location within a customer s retail area. Accordingly the cloud based analysis system may predict an increase in demand for a relevant pharmaceutical product manufactured by the customer s pharmaceutical enterprise. Based on further analysis of collected customer data e.g. device data process data asset data and or system data analysis component may determine that the current inventory level maintained by the customer may be insufficient to meet the expected elevated demand and report this possible inventory shortage via system assessment report which may also include a recommendation to increase production of the pharmaceutical product to a level expected to satisfy the anticipated demand .

In another example extrinsic data may comprise current energy or material cost information. Analysis component may factor this cost information into a cost benefit analysis together with the collected customer data in order to determine whether revenue for the industrial enterprise would be substantially optimized by increasing or lowering the current rate of production e.g. scheduling more or fewer shifts curtailing operations during peak energy demand hours etc. . In other non limiting industry specific examples analysis component may predict an increase in demand for certain pet supplies e.g. pet food or accessories based on an observed rise in the number of pet adoptions or may predict a rise in demand for infant products e.g. formula diapers etc. based on a detected rise in the number of child births given birth statistics received as extrinsic data .

At the industrial data is normalized to conform to a standard or format required by a big data analyzer that executes as a service on the cloud platform. At the normalized data is sent to the cloud platform for storage and or analysis by the big data analyzer.

At communication is established between the industrial device and a cloud based application executing as a service on a cloud platform. In one or more embodiments the industrial device may include a cloud gateway that communicatively links the industrial device to the cloud platform. The cloud gateway may be configured to automatically detect the cloud based application upon deployment of the device on a plant network and to establish communication with the application upon detection. At the industrial device sends information derived from the device profile and the customer profile to the cloud based application via the communicative link established at step .

At current version information for the industrial device corresponding to the device identification information is determined based on the cross referencing of step . At a determination is made regarding whether new capabilities are available for the industrial device. This can include determining whether a newer version of the device is available whether a more recent firmware version is available for the device whether software upgrades are available etc. If no new capabilities are available the methodology ends. Alternatively if new capabilities are identified YES at step a notification is sent to one or more client devices or addresses defined in the customer profile information informing plant personnel of the identified capabilities. For example the cloud based device management application can notify a user that a new firmware version is available for the device that a newer version of the device is available etc. The notification may also include instructions for obtaining the new capabilities e.g. a website from which the new firmware version can be downloaded a vendor from which the new device model can be purchased etc. .

At the identified data subsets are grouped according to a variable asset configuration. For example the cloud based analysis system can group together data subsets corresponding to industrial assets that include a particular device model firmware version network configuration configuration parameter or other variable configuration aspect. In this way each data group represents performance data for the industrial application as a function of the variable configuration aspect.

At the performance data is compared across the groups established in step in order to determine relative performance metrics for the different asset configurations as a function of the variable configuration aspect. At customer specific asset data collected from a particular customer s industrial enterprise is correlated with the collected performance data. For example the customer specific data can be cross referenced with the performance data groups established at step in view of the performance comparisons made at step . At one or more asset configuration recommendations are generated based on the correlation of step . For example the cloud based analysis system may determine based on the customer specific asset configuration data that the customer s equipment configuration for performing the industrial application generally corresponds to the variable configuration aspect for one of the identified groups step and is therefore expected to experience similar performance characteristics identified for that group based on the analysis performed at step . Accordingly the analysis system can generate a recommendation that the customer alter the current asset configuration to more closely conform to a configuration associated with a different data group that demonstrates improved performance relative to the customer s current configuration e.g. a recommendation to change a parameter setting a recommendation to use a different firmware version a recommendation to replace a particular device with a different model known or inferred to result in improved performance etc. . In some embodiments the analysis system can also provide positive confirmation that the user s current system configuration generally conforms to that identified as yielding best performance.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs automation controllers communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC or automation controller as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs or automation controllers can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC or automation controller can also communicate to and control various other devices such as I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and Ethernet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Multi core microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 8 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapters are provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

