---

title: Photo clustering into moments
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes automatically and without user input grouping one or more images captured by a first user into clusters of particular moments based at least in part on metadata associated with one or more of the images or data determined through analysis of one or more of the images. Each particular moment being associated with a particular geo-location and time. The method also includes, for each of one or more of the clusters, determining curating information corresponding to the cluster based at least in part on the metadata associated with images in the cluster, the data determined through analysis of images in the cluster, or social-graph information associated with images in the cluster; and providing the clusters of images and at least some of the curating information corresponding to them for display on a computing device of the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411831&OS=09411831&RS=09411831
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09411831
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130301
---
A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may transmit over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

A mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer or laptop computer may include functionality for determining its location direction or orientation such as a GPS receiver compass or gyroscope. Such a device may also include functionality for wireless communication such as BLUETOOTH communication near field communication NFC or infrared IR communication or communication with a wireless local area networks WLANs or cellular telephone network. Such a device may also include one or more cameras scanners touchscreens microphones or speakers. Mobile computing devices may also execute software applications such as games web browsers or social networking applications. With social networking applications users may connect communicate and share information with other users in their social networks.

In particular embodiments images captured by a user such as on camera roll of the mobile device may be automatically clustered into moments in time or groups of images that are associated with a particular event or date and time. For example metadata of images and social information may be used to determine what the moment is e.g. dinner with a group of friends and group the images based on what the moment is. The clustering may be performed based at least in part on metadata associated with the group of images or other social data such as for example date and time stamp of the images determination of friends in the images through facial recognition global positioning system GPS location data of images if enabled by the user check in information events information or status updates tagging other users. An example user interface may automatically provide curating information for the moment that may include a title date location or continuous location readings information identifying other users or computer vision or analysis of characteristics of images e.g. lighting or objects in image . For example the user may be at a particular restaurant for dinner at such as for example Pizza Defina with user Bob. The social networking system may automatically group the images associated with the dinner with an example heading such as for example Dinner with Bob at Pizza Defina without input from the user.

In particular embodiments an example image clustering algorithm may based at least in part on time and geo location associated with the images. The images in the camera roll may be sequentially analyzed to determine whether a current image should be grouped with the previous image. In particular embodiments a image that was taken within a first pre determined amount of time such as for example half an hour may be grouped with the previous image. In particular embodiments a image that was taken more than a second pre determined amount of time such as for example three hours may be placed in a group separate from the previous image. For images taken at a time more than the first pre determined amount of time and less than the second pre determined amount of time a standard deviation of the location may be determined. For example an average amount of movement for the images of the entire camera roll is calculated and if the movement of the current image is within a standard deviation of the average amount of movement of the entire camera roll the image may be grouped with the previous photo.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream. Social networking system may be configured for users to generate event content objects. As an example and not by way of limitation the user may configure an event with attributes including time and date of the event geo location of the event and a guest list that includes one or more friends that are invited to the event. The friends included on the guest list may receive an invitation to the event and respond to it by for example accepting the invitation or declining it.

One or more photos stored on client system i.e. camera roll may be uploaded to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation client system may automatically and without manual input from a user upload the images stored on client system to social networking system through photo synching depending on settings of the user as described below. In particular embodiments an application or operating system OS of client system may upload images to the social networking or third party system where the images may be saved to an archive or space of the user. As described below social networking or third party system may also include images received from users of social networking or third party system in a shared archives or space. The user may designate as private one or more of the images or grant access to one or more of the images to certain users of social networking system based at least in part on privacy settings of the user as described below.

In particular embodiments social networking system may share images associated with a particular moment with one or more friends in response to receiving a signal from a user interface UI of client system . Herein the term moment may refer to events associated with a particular date and time period or at a particular geo location. In particular embodiments the images of the camera roll may clustered into moments associated with a particular event at a particular date or time. Images of the camera roll of the user may be grouped in accordance with one or more criteria. In particular embodiments images may be grouped into moments based at least in part on metadata associated with the images information associated with the images inferred from social graph information or any combination thereof. Although this disclosure describes clustering of images from a particular source using particular metadata and inferred information this disclosure contemplates clustering of images from any suitable source such as for example shared images of one or more friends of the user or images uploaded from a digital camera device using any suitable data. As an example and not by way of limitation an image may be associated with metadata relating to file size resolution time stamp global positioning system GPS location data if enabled by the user or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments clustering of the images of the camera roll by social networking system may based at least in part on information associated with images automatically generated and associated with the images during the image capturing process or information that is inferred based at least in part on analysis by social networking system of one or more of the images.

As another example social networking system may group one or more images based at least in part on information inferred by social networking system . For example social networking system may group one or more images based at least in part on computer vision analysis determining whether the images have similar composition or characteristics such as for example common shapes or lighting conditions. As another example social networking system may identify one or more friends of the user present in one or more images through facial recognition described below and group these images into a cluster. As another example social networking system may cluster one or more images with a time stamp that corresponds to an event invitation check in or status update.

Although this disclosure describes clustering of images using particular methodologies with particular criteria or data this disclosure contemplates clustering of images using any suitable methodology or combination of methodologies with any suitable criteria or combination of data. Furthermore this disclosure contemplates grouping of any suitable media such as for example video e.g. MPEG4 or audio e.g. WAV or MP3 files into any suitable clusters. In particular embodiments the images of the camera roll may grouped into moments based at least in part on a time stamp and location data associated with the images. The images in the camera roll may be sequentially analyzed to determine whether a current image should be grouped with the previous image. In particular embodiments an image that was captured within a first pre determined amount of time of the previous image such as for example half an hour may be clustered with the previous image. In particular embodiments an image that was captured more than a second pre determined amount of time that is larger than the first pre determined amount of time from the previous image such as for example three hours may be placed in a cluster separate from the previous image. In particular embodiments a standard deviation from a geo location associated with the clustered images may be determined for images captured at a time more than the first pre determined amount of time and less than the second pre determined amount of time from the previous image. As an example and not by way of limitation an average amount of movement for the images of the entire camera roll may be calculated and if the movement of the current image is within a standard deviation of the average amount of movement of the entire camera roll the image is grouped with the previous image.

Social networking system may automatically and without user input curate and provide a context to the image clusters based at least in part on the metadata associated with the images or information inferred from social graph information. Information that may be inferred from the images may include information determined based at least in part on automated tagging of friends present in one or more images through facial recognition ambient location logging of geo location data of client systems associated with the user or friends of the user activity associated with the users of social networking system or any combination thereof. As example and not by way of limitation automatic tagging of friends in one or more images may be performed through any suitable facial recognition algorithm that for example analyzes facial information found in the images of the camera roll and identifies users based on a comparison of facial characteristics associated with a known set of users. As another example geo location data of client system associated with users of social networking system may be logged through polling of the location service of client system and the friends associated with a particular cluster of images captured at a particular geo location. As another example social networking system may associate information such as for example time date geo location or name of friends from an accepted an event invitation or that are included in a check in with a cluster of images captured at a particular geo location or time frame. As another example computer vision analysis by social networking system may associate one or more objects in an image with a particular geo location.

In particular embodiments information curating and providing a context for a moment may be extracted from metadata associated with the clustered images information inferred from social graph information information inferred through analysis of the clustered images or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation curating information associated with a moment may include a time date geo location or information identifying friends associated with the moment. For example an event on social networking system at a particular geo location such as for example Pizza Delfina with a particular user may result in a photo viewer UI of client system displaying an image cluster associated with the dinner event that has an automatically generated curating information such as for example Dinner at Pizza Defina with Russ. 

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. Social networking system or third party system may automatically and without manual input poll client system for location data as described below. In particular embodiments social networking or third party system may receive and log location data of client system through polling client system for location data the user initiating a location update a check in performed by the user or any combination thereof depending on one or more privacy settings as appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may automatically and without manual input prompt the user provide access to one or more images with one or more friends. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may prompt the user provide access to one or more images captured by the user that may be socially relevant to one or more friends. As another example the one or more images may be a particular cluster of images associated with a particular moment that is relevant to the friends. Furthermore social networking system may automatically detect a moment has transpired and may automatically and without user input prompt the user to share an image cluster associated with the moment with the friends who may have also attended the moment. 

In particular embodiments social networking system may infer an audience or group of relevant friends that are associated with the images. Furthermore inference of the relevant friends may be based at least in part on social graph information such as a guest list of an event invitation check in associated with the event that tags one or more friends facial recognition of friends who use social networking system in the cluster of images determination of friends that were at the particular geo location associated with the cluster of images e.g. through polling of the location service of client system of the friends or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may send a push notification to prompt the user to share one or more images with the audience inferred by social networking system . As another example a push notification sent by social networking system may initiate presentation of a modal window on a display of one or more client systems that prompts the user to share a cluster of images associated with a particular moment with the relevant friends. Although this disclosure describes prompting the user or relevant friends through a particular notification this disclosure contemplates prompting the user through any suitable notification such as for example short message service SMS message multimedia messaging service MMS message instant messaging IM or email.

In particular embodiments social networking system may automatically and without manual input prompt one or more friends to request the user provide access to one or more images captured by the user. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may prompt one or more friends to request access to one or more images captured by the user that may be socially relevant to one or more friends. Furthermore the images may be a cluster of images associated with a particular moment that is relevant to the friends. As another example social networking system may send a push notification to prompt relevant friends whom social networking system determines were present at a particular moment to request access to the particular image cluster associated with the relevant friends. As another example a push notification sent by social networking system may initiate presentation of a modal window on a display of one or more client systems associated with each of the inferred friends to request the user provide access to a cluster of images associated with the particular moment. 

In particular embodiments social networking system may determine one or more images captured by client systems of a friend may be associated with a particular moment shared with the user. Furthermore social networking system may automatically and without manual input prompt one or more relevant friends to provide access to one or more images that may be socially relevant to the user. As an example and not by way of limitation a notification sent by social networking system may prompt one or more friends to upload one or more images to a shared space or archive hosted on social networking system as described below. Furthermore each of the images uploaded for sharing may be associated with the particular moment shared by the friends and the user. In particular embodiments social networking system may provide thumbnails of images for approval by the friends along with the request to provide access to the images to the user or the shared archive. In particular embodiments one or more images uploaded by the user or one or more friends may automatically be included in the shared archive associated with the particular moment as described below.

In particular embodiments images clustered into moments may be stored in a shared space or archive that is accessible by the user and friends associated with the moment as determined by a privacy settings of the user as appropriate. In particular embodiments the shared archive creation process may automatically and without manual input create a shared space based at least in part on identification of the moment shared between the user and friends of the user relevant to the particular moment. In particular embodiments the shared space may be maintained as a hub node in a social graph or other data structure maintained by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the shared space may be shared as part of a wall of an existing group on social networking system a wall associated with an event corresponding to the moment a message with a link to the shared space shared album or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments the shared archive creation process may operate in conjunction with a client side application hosted on one or more client systems . Although this disclosure describes particular methods of sharing images between users this disclosure contemplates any suitable method of sharing images between users such as for example sending images directly to users modifying privacy settings associated with the images uploading the images to a shared space or any combination thereof.

Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. The authorization server of social networking system may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information or content objects associated with the user may be shared. In particular embodiments a determination of the content of displayed by a UI provided by social networking system for clusters of images or prompted sharing of image clusters may be restricted based on the privacy settings of users of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may restrict access to one or more images captured by users for display on an image viewer UI or prompted sharing of clustered images based at least in part on a privacy setting of user as appropriate. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to the user.

Mobile computing device many include a communication component coupled to antennae A B for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as for example a WI FI network or modem for communicating with a cellular network such third generation mobile telecommunications 3G or Long Term Evolution LTE network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication component for it. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile computing device may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As another example mobile computing device may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3G or LTE network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Mobile computing device may include any suitable communication component for any of these networks where appropriate.

In particular embodiments the social networking system or the third party system may poll or ping mobile computing device using a activation signal to obtain location information. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may poll the application of mobile device for location data by sending the activation signal activate the location service of mobile computing device . The activation signal may be transmitted using a wireless communication protocol such as for example WI FI or 3G and received by mobile computing device through one or more antennae A B. In particular embodiments the location service of mobile computing device may use one or more methods of location determination such as for example using the location of one or more cellular towers crowd sourced location information associated with a WI FI hotspot or the GPS function of mobile computing device . As described above the social networking system may automatically and without manual input determine a geo location associated with mobile computing device based in part on the location data provided by mobile computing device . Alternatively the social networking or third party system may receive location data of mobile computing device through the user initiating a location update through a check in performed by the user or any combination thereof.

In particular embodiments mobile computing device may include an image sensor configured to capture individual photo images or a series of images as a video. An application executed on mobile computing device may provide image management capabilities for images captured through the image sensor of mobile computing device . In particular embodiments an image processing module within mobile computing device may receive images captured by the image sensor. Furthermore one or more images captured by the image sensor may be stored on storage component of mobile computing device and may collectively be referred to as a camera roll. 

In particular embodiments one or more images of the camera roll may be sent to the social networking or third party system through a communication network described above. In particular embodiments images captured by the image sensor and stored in the storage component within mobile computing device may be uploaded to the social networking or third party system using an application or image uploading functionality built into the OS of mobile computing device . As an example and not by way of limitation images that are stored on mobile computing device may be automatically uploaded to the social networking or third party system. Furthermore one or more images captured using the image sensor of mobile computing device may be automatically and without input from the user uploaded to the social networking or third party system substantially immediately upon being captured or at some later time. Although this disclosure illustrates and describes a particular type of computing device this disclosure contemplates a UI configured to display images clustered in moments implemented on any suitable type of computing device such as for example a personal computer tablet computer connected television or a smartphone. As described below mobile computing device may display a UI that may configured to display images clustered in moments on mobile computing device .

In the example of images clustered into a particular moment associated with a particular geo location time and friend are displayed in display area A and curated with information displayed in A. As described above the date and location e.g. yesterday and San Francisco associated with the particular moment may be determined from the time stamp and location data of the images and friends e.g. Joan Smith may be determined the social networking system by for example facial recognition analysis of images or a status update from Joan Smith that tags the user and at a time or geo location that corresponds to the moment. As another example images associated with another particular moment may be displayed in display area B and curated using information displayed in information area B. Furthermore the date or time associated with the images displayed in display area B may be determined by the social networking system based at least in part on metadata of the images and determination of the geo location may be based at least in part on logging location data of mobile computing device by the social networking system. Although this illustrates and describes curating images with particular information determined through particular methodologies this disclosure contemplates curating images with any suitable information or combination of information such as for example geo location time date or friends determined through any suitable methodology such as for example facial recognition or logging location data.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments user node may be associated with facial recognition data extracted from one or more images of the user depending on a privacy setting of the user. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable like icon. As another example the socialized dash of a client system may include a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable like icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a like edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Ramble On using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

