---

title: Hinged ancillary displays
abstract: Ancillary or secondary displays usable with various electronic devices are described herein. In some implementations, the ancillary display may include a dual hinge to allow the ancillary display to act as a cover for a portion of an associated electronic device. In some implementations, the ancillary display may include a magnetic connector capable of providing a mechanical coupling with an electronic device. The magnetic connector may also provide a pathway for the transmission of data and/or power between the ancillary display and the electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09158135&OS=09158135&RS=09158135
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09158135
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130925
---
Various electronic devices are utilized for the consumption of content such as music movies images electronic books and so on. In many cases a user may employ multiple electronic devices to consume such content. Purchasing and transporting the multiple electronic devices can be quite burdensome. For example the high cost associated with purchasing the multiple electronic devices and or the excessive storage space required for a user to transport the multiple electronic devices. As such there remains a need for auxiliary equipment such a display which can act as a cover or supplement the functionality of an associated electronic device.

This disclosure describes various ancillary displays that may be used with an electronic device such as an electronic book eBook reader device a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a portable media player a tablet computer or any other type of electronic device. In one implementation the ancillary display may include a hinge or dual hinge which may allow the ancillary display to act as a cover for the electronic device. The ancillary display may have one or more displays to supplement information or graphical content shown on the electronic device. In some embodiments the ancillary display may be a display type different from the electronic device display. For example the electronic device may include an emissive display such as an LCD liquid crystal display display while the ancillary display may include a reflective display such as an electronic paper display. Emissive displays are displays that convert electrical energy into light while reflective display use ambient light to enable a display image to be seen without the use of a backlight.

Electronic paper displays represent an array of display technologies that largely mimic the look of ordinary ink on paper. In contrast to conventional backlit displays electronic paper displays typically reflect light much as ordinary paper does. In addition electronic paper displays are often bi stable meaning that these displays are capable of holding text or other rendered images even when very little or no power is supplied to the display. Thus the last screen image rendered on the display can be maintained and visible for very long periods of time such as days or weeks. In addition this technology can produce very high contrast ratios similar to that of printed paper.

In one implementation the electronic paper display comprises an electrophoretic display that moves particles between different positions to achieve different color shades. For instance in a pixel that is free from a color filter the pixel may be configured to produce white when the particles within this pixel are located at the front i.e. viewing side of the display. When situated in this manner the particles reflect incident light thus giving the appearance of a white pixel. Conversely when the particles are pushed near the rear of the display the particles absorb the incident light and hence cause the pixel to appear black to a viewing user. In addition the particle may situate at varying locations between the front and rear sides of the display to produce varying shades of gray. Furthermore as used herein a white pixel may comprise any shade of white or off white while a black pixel may similarly comprise any shade of black.

In another implementation the electronic paper display comprises an electrophoretic display that includes oppositely charged light and dark particles. In order to create white the display controller moves the light particles to the front side of the display by creating a corresponding charge at an electrode near the front and moves the dark particles to the back of the display by creating a corresponding charge at an electrode near the back. In order to create black meanwhile the controller changes the polarities and moves the dark particles to the front and the light particles to the back. Furthermore to create varying shades of gray the controller may utilize different arrays of both light and dark particles.

Of course while two different examples of an electronic paper display have been given it is to be appreciated that the electronic paper displays described herein may comprise any other type of electronic paper technology such as gyricon displays electrowetting displays electrofluidic displays interferometric modulator displays cholestric liquid crystal displays and the like. In addition while some of the displays described below are discussed as rendering black white and varying shades of gray it is to be appreciated that the described techniques apply equally to electronic paper displays capable of rendering color pixels. As such the terms white gray and black may refer to varying degrees of color in implementations utilizing color displays. For instance where a pixel includes a red color filter a gray value of the pixel may correspond to a shade of pink while a black value of the pixel may correspond to a darkest red of the color filter.

In some implementations the ancillary display may be a same display type as the display of the electronic device. For example the displays of the ancillary display and the electronic device may both be reflective displays.

In some implementations the ancillary display when coupled to the electronic device may provide functionality previously unsupported by the electronic device. For example the ancillary display may support additional and or different interfaces e.g. high definition multimedia interface HDMI 3.5 mm 4 conductor connector 2.5 mm mono connector universal serial bus USB etc. than the electronic device. In some implementations the additional and or different interfaces supported by the ancillary display may be utilized by the electronic device while coupled to the ancillary display.

In some implementations the ancillary display may be removably coupled to the electronic device by magnetic connectors. In some implementations the ancillary display may be removably coupled to the electronic device by any number of other connectors e.g. friction fit snap fit or the like . In yet other implementations the display may be removably coupled to the electronic device by mini jack headphone type jack connectors e.g. tip ring sleeve TRS connectors tip sleeve TS connectors tip ring ring sleeve TRRS connectors USB HDMI or the like. In some implementations the connectors magnetic headphone type or otherwise may allow the ancillary display to send and or receive data communications to from the electronic device via a wired data connection. In some implementations the display may receive electrical power from the electronic device while coupled. However in other implementations the ancillary display may have a separate power source from the electronic device. Furthermore in some implementations the ancillary display may have wireless data transmission capabilities in order to communicate with the electronic device. In some implementation the wireless data transmission capabilities may be used to supplement the wired data connection.

A hinged ancillary display may be implemented in many ways. Example implementations are provided below with reference to the figures.

The display of the ancillary display may be implemented using any suitable display technology. In some implementations the display may be implemented with any of the electronic paper display examples described above e.g. an electrowetting display or an electrophoretic display . In still another implementation the display of the ancillary display may comprise an emissive display.

In some implementations ancillary display may include a hinge to allow the ancillary display to act as a cover for the electronic device. In some implementations the hinge may be a dual hinge which may allow one or more attachment mechanism or connectors M to remain coupled to the electronic device while the ancillary display is in contact with a front surface of the electronic device . As discussed in greater detail below the one or more connectors M may provide a communication control allowing the ancillary display and the electronic device to transmit data and or electrical current to each other.

The electronic device is illustrated as a portable hand held device having a slate like shape. As mentioned electronic device has a generally planar front surface within which is a flat two dimensional display . In some implementations the display may include touch screen capabilities that allow user input through contact or gesturing relative to the display. The display is shown in a generally rectangular configuration. However it is understood that the display may be implemented in any shape and may have any ratio of height to width. In addition the display may be curved or otherwise non linearly shaped.

In some implementations the ancillary display may be releasably attached to one or more communications ports located on a side surface of the electronic device . More specifically the one or more connectors M as part of the hinge may connect the ancillary display to the side surface of the electronic device . In some implementations the electronic device may have multiple receptacles or other elements that cooperate with the connectors M to fastener the ancillary display to the electronic device . In addition to providing physical coupling connectors M may function as a data communication channel to provide data communications between the ancillary display and the electronic device . Further details and implementations concerning the one or more connectors M will be described in more detail below.

The display of the electronic device may be implemented using various technologies including the ePaper technology mentioned above. In other implementations the display may also be implemented using monochrome or color technologies with LED light emitting diode LCD liquid crystal display OLED organic light emitting diode or other technologies that are available or may become available. Electronic paper displays that may be used with the implementations described herein include bi stable LCDs MEMS cholesteric pigmented electrophoretic and others. In other implementations or for other types of devices the cover display may further include a touch screen interface. In some implementations a touch sensitive mechanism may be included with the display to form a touch screen display.

In some implementations the ancillary display may have integral control logic or electronics to drive and control the display . Such control logic may range from very simple to relatively complex depending on functional objectives and the types of content desired to be displayed on the display . In some implementations the display may communicatively couple to electronic device and the electronic device may control aspects of the display . In some implementations the ancillary display may have control logic that communicates with the electronic device to determine information that will be displayed on the display .

The memory may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable on the processing unit s as well as data and content items that are rendered by ancillary display . Thus in some implementations the memory may store an operating system and a storage database to store one or more content items. Furthermore while the following description includes certain components located in the electronic device and other components in the ancillary device in other implementations the arrangement of these components may vary between the device and the ancillary display.

In some implementations the ancillary display may include a device connector for data communication with an associated electronic device. Physically the device connector may be integrated with the connectors M shown in . Electronically the device connector may use one or more existing wired communication protocols such as a USB universal serial bus . Alternatively as described below the device connector may be implemented using the wireless unit and antenna for wireless communications.

A magnetometer may also be included in ancillary display and used in conjunction with device connector to receive one or more signals indicating that one or more magnets associated with connectors M are in contact with electronic device .

Additionally in some implementations ancillary display may include touch sensor s which enables a user of ancillary display to operate and interact with ancillary display via touch gestures. In one implementation the touch sensor s may be placed behind on top of or integral with a touch screen layer of display such that user input through contact or other gestures relative to display may be sensed by the touch sensor s . In another implementation the touch sensor s may be placed in another part of ancillary display . For example the touch sensor s may be placed on a bezel sides of the ancillary display and or the back of the ancillary display. In some instances the touch sensor s and the display are integral to provide a touch sensitive display that displays a user interface applications or content items and allows users to navigate via touch inputs. In some instances the touch sensor s are capable of detecting touches as well as determining an amount of pressure or force of these touch inputs.

In some implementations the ancillary display may include a wireless unit coupled to an antenna to facilitate a wireless connection to a network and or an associated electronic device. The wireless unit may implement one or more of various wireless technologies such as cellular networks radio Wi Fi networks short range networks e.g. Bluetooth IR RF and so forth. For example the antenna may receive a wireless signal at the wireless unit from an electronic device the signal comprising data to be displayed on the display of the ancillary display .

The example ancillary display may also include a battery and power control unit . The battery and power control unit operatively controls an amount of power or electrical energy consumed by the display. Actively controlling the amount of power consumed by the display may achieve more efficient use of electrical energy stored by the battery. As mentioned above other implementations of the ancillary display may be configured without a battery. In those implementations the power consumed by the ancillary display may be supplied by the battery and or power control unit of an electronic device associated with the ancillary display.

The ancillary display may further be equipped with various input output I O components . Such components may include various user interface controls e.g. buttons a joystick a keyboard etc. a camera a bar code reader an image projector audio speakers a microphone connection ports and so forth.

The memory may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable on the processing unit s as well as data and content items that are rendered by device or ancillary display . Thus the memory may store an operating system and a storage database to store one or more content items such as eBooks audio books songs videos still images and the like.

The operating system may provide menus and other navigational tools to facilitate selection and rendering of the content items . The operating system may further include a browser or other application that facilitates access to sites over a network such as websites or online merchants. In addition the operating system may contain logic and modules for controlling the display for rendering content items on the display and for navigating through content items in response to user input.

An interface module may also be provided in memory and may be executed on the processing unit s to provide for user operation of device . The interface module may facilitate textual entry of requests e.g. via a cursor controller keyboard etc. audible entry of requests e.g. via a microphone or entry of requests in any other manner.

The memory may also include a settings module to facilitate personalization of device to the user. For example settings module may store device registration device name Wi Fi settings device password and the like. In some implementations the settings module may include an ancillary display settings module . The ancillary display settings module may store settings user s settings related to one or more previously associated ancillary displays. For example the ancillary display settings module may store a user s desired communication mode i.e. Bluetooth with an ancillary display.

The memory may include an application programming interface API referred to herein as an ancillary display API that can be called by the ancillary display for interaction between the ancillary display and the electronic device . Although the ancillary display API may be implemented by the memory it is shown explicitly in for purposes of discussion. Also note that the ancillary display API may be implemented as part of the operating system in some implementations.

In some implementations the electronic device may include a magnetometer used in conjunction with ancillary display port to receive one or more signals indicating that one or more magnets associated with connectors M are in contact with electronic device . In some implementations magnetometer may receive one or more signals from one or more magnets associated with the ancillary display when the display of the ancillary display is in contact with the electronic device. For example magnetometer may detect that magnets embedded within layers of the ancillary display to determine that the ancillary display covers a portion of the display of the electronic device.

Note that only a general configuration of an ancillary display and electronic device is illustrated showing high level components most relevant to this discussion. Both the ancillary display and the electronic device may be implemented in many different ways other than the specific implementation shown here.

In addition to the content data the ancillary display may obtain configuration information or commands from the electronic device containing specific instructions or information regarding the desired behavior of the ancillary display .

In different implementations specific operational behavior of the ancillary display may be dictated by either the ancillary display itself or the electronic device . Responsibility for updates may also be placed with either the ancillary display or the electronic device . Generally the various functionality described herein can be under the control of either the ancillary display the electronic device or some combination of the two. Similarly communications may be initiated by either the ancillary display the electronic device or both.

In some implementations the hinge may be a double axis hinge meaning that the hinge may allow for two separate parallel axes of rotation and each axis of the double axis hinge may be configured to move relative to a position of the other axis. In some implementations one of the axes of the double axis hinge may be integrated with the body of the ancillary display while the other of the axes may integrated with a pivot body housing the one or more connector M . In some implementations the double axis hinge may allow the ancillary display to cover a display and or back surface of the electronic device while the one or more connector M of the pivot body may remain connected to the electronic device. In other implementations the hinge may be a single pivot hinge a floating hinge a lift off hinge or a spring hinge.

As illustrated the hinge may include caps and at each end of the hinge . Each of the caps and may be configured to hold one of dowel pins and . For ease of illustration caps and are illustrated as generally rectangular cuboids with rounded corners. In other implementations the caps may be any other suitable shape including but not limited to flat polygon shapes designed to reduce snagging on user s clothing purse carrying bag etc.

Dowel pins and are illustrated as traveling the entire length of the hinge from cap to cap . However in other implementations each of the dowel pins may travel a length less than the entire length of the hinge. In some implementations dowel pins and may be permanently attached to each of caps and . In other implementations the caps and may be decoupled from dowel pins and .

As illustrated dowel pins and may pass through an opening on each of a connection body and an ancillary display spine . The opening on each of the connection body and the ancillary display spine may be slightly larger e.g. have a greater diameter than each of the dowel pins and . In this implementation this may allow the dowel pins and to move e.g. rotate relative to each opening.

In some implementations ancillary display spine may be formed as part of the bezel or body of ancillary display . While connection body may be formed apart from the ancillary display . As illustrated in the connection body may include the one or more connector M . In some implementations the connection body may include wires contacts flexible printed circuits or other connections to provide a pathway to facilitate data communication and or electrical transmission between the ancillary display and the electronic device as described above.

In some implementations the caps pins ancillary display spine and connection body may be formed of any durable plastics metals or combinations thereof.

Note that only a general configuration of a hinge of an ancillary display is illustrated showing components most relevant to this discussion. The hinge of an ancillary display may be implemented in many different ways other than the specific implementation shown here.

In some implementations connector may include a side contact notch to provide an additional contact for data and or electrical transmission when coupled to electronic device . In other implementations the side contact notch may provide a mechanism to ensure proper alignment and security when the connector is coupled to the electronic device .

In some implementations connector may include a central orifice as part of the device connector . In some implementations the central orifice may also provide a mechanism to ensure proper alignment when the connector is coupled to the electronic device . In other implementations the central orifice may provide a location for data and or electrical transmission when coupled to electronic device .

As further illustrated in connector may be configured to slide into one or multiple cavities location on a side surface of electronic device. In some implementations cavity may include magnet location at the base of the cavity . In some implementations the magnet may be configured with a polarity such that the base surface of cavity is negative. In this implementation the negative polarity of the base surface of cavity may be configured to interact attract and or hold the positive polarity of the tip of body of the connector on the ancillary display . In some implementations each of the multiple cavities positioned on the electronic device may include a protective removable cover to prevent dirt debris other object from entering a cavity. In other implementations the connector may be configured to attach to a magnetic surface located on an outer surface of the electronic device.

In some implementations cavity may include a side leaf configured to interact with the side contact notch of connector . In some implementations the side leaf may be fixed i.e. not movable however in other implementations the side leaf may include a spring or other mechanism to allow the side leaf to depress when the connector is slid into the cavity . In this implementation when the connector is slid into place relate to the cavity the side leaf may spring into the side contact notch on the connector and secure the ancillary display relative to the electronic device .

In yet another implementation cavity of the electronic device may include a spring detent as part of ancillary display port . Spring detent may be configured to interact and or receive the central orifice of the connector . In some implementations the spring detent may be positioned within a central portion of magnet at the base of cavity . In some implementations the spring detent may provide a connectivity point to transfer data communications and or electrical transmission from the electronic device to the connector of the ancillary display . In some implementations at least a portion of the spring detent may be configured to provide a data communication and or electrical pathway. For example the spring detent may comprise a conductive material may be plated with a conductor and so forth.

As illustrated in the pogo pin array may include a plurality of pins . It should be noted that any number of pins may be included in a pogo pin array. Additionally or alternatively the pogo pin array may be on the electronic device while the contacts may be on the ancillary display. In yet another implementation the pins of an array may alternate with contact point on both an ancillary display and electronic device in an opposite manner such that a pin on the ancillary display corresponds to a contact point on the electronic device and vice versa. Furthermore in some implementations each of the plurality of pins may be composed of a suitably conductive material such as aluminum conductive plastic and so forth. In some implementations each of the plurality of pins may be bent pins. Pins may be configured with a geometry differing from the pins . For example the pins might be shorter in some implementations.

In some implementation each pin in the pogo pin array may include a spring which may allow the pin to resist and or arrest movement of each pin relative to the ancillary display . Such spring may also allow each pin to remain in contact with the one or more contact points on the electronic device as described below.

In some implementations each of the pins may be configured to interact with a corresponding contact point located on the spine of electronic device . Contact points are illustrated as openings to accept the head of a corresponding pin . However it other implementations each of the contact points may be a substantially flush with the spine of electronic device . For example each contact point may be a small area of conductive material to interact with a head of a corresponding pin .

As illustrated each connector and on the connection body may be configured to slide into cavities and respectively on the electronic device . More specifically magnetic body of the connector is slide into cavity until positive polarity of the tip of the body is coupled to the negative polarity of the magnet at the base of cavity . In some implementations once magnet and magnet are in contact the magnetometers associated with the device connector of the ancillary display and ancillary display port of the electronic device may send a signal notifying the control logic of the ancillary display and memory of the electronic device that coupling has occurred. In some implementations an identification of either the ancillary display and or electronic device may be recognized by the other. For example upon coupling the electronic device may recognize a brand display type previous association etc. of an ancillary display.

In some implementations when the each connector and on the connection body are slide into cavities and on the electronic device spring detents and may be depressed. In some implementations upon depressing the spring detent and and any other spring detents in located in the bottom portion of the electronic device the device connector interface with ancillary display port may be complete. In other implementations spring detent may work in conjunction with a pogo pin array to complete such connector port interface.

Each connector may be configured as described above with regard to . In some implementations the orientation of each connector may vary and or alternate. For example connectors and may have a magnetic orientation opposite of connector . However any number of magnetic orientations may be utilized in other implementations. In yet another implementation one or more connectors M may be passive or non magnetic. In such implementations the passive connectors may be configured to align the ancillary display with the electronic device.

As illustrated each connector and on the connection body may be placed into cavities and on the electronic device . In some implementations each connector and may include side leaf and respectively as described above with regard to . In this implementation each side leaf and and any other side leaves located in the bottom portion of the connection body may be configured to interact with a corresponding side contact notch not labeled in .

In some implementations an interaction between the side leaves and and corresponding side contact notches may provide a mechanism to secure the ancillary display to the electronic device. Additionally or alternatively interaction between the side leaves and and corresponding side contact notches may provide pathway which data communications and or electric transmission are passed between the electronic device and ancillary display.

In some implementations upon contact between the side leaves and and corresponding side contact notch the device connector interface with ancillary display port may be complete. In other implementations side leaves and may work in conjunction with a pogo pin array to complete such connector port interface allowing communication between the ancillary display and electronic device.

As illustrated in ancillary display includes jack connector and slide mechanism . Jack connector may include a mini jack headphone type jack connector e.g. tip ring sleeve TRS connectors tip sleeve TS connectors tip ring ring sleeve TRRS connectors to attach the ancillary display to the electronic device . In some implementations jack connector may include a port which may allow for attachment and functionality of a device accessory e.g. headphone microphone etc. while the ancillary display is attached to the electronic device.

In some implementations the connector may be positioned at the top of the ancillary display while the slide mechanism may be positioned at the bottom of the ancillary display opposite the jack connector . In other implementations the orientation of the jack connector and slide mechanism may be reversed.

In some implementations jack connector may be configured to interact with a location on the electronic device . In some implementations the location on the electronic device may be sunken to provide a secure interaction. In other implementations the interaction between the jack connector and electronic device may be secured by magnets. In some implementations an interaction between the jack connector and the electronic device may provide a pathway which data communications and or electric transmission are passed between the electronic device and ancillary display. Jack connector may also be configured with an extended length to provide structural support as the ancillary display is manipulated relative to the electronic device.

Slide mechanism may be configured to secure ancillary display to the electronic device once jack connector is placed within electronic device . In some implementations slide mechanism may be configured with a spring which may allow the slide mechanism to be manipulated such that it may be placed over securing protrusion on electronic device . In some implementations slide mechanism and securing protrusion and or another location of the electronic device may be configured to secure the slide mechanism relative to the securing protrusion by magnetic force. In some implementations the slide mechanism may include a jack connector as described above.

In some implementations an interaction between the slide mechanism and the electronic device may provide a pathway which data communications and or electric transmission are passed between the electronic device and ancillary display. In some implementations ancillary display may be configured with a swivel axis relative to electronic device where the axis may be coaxial with the centerline of the jack connector and slide mechanism .

In some implementations jack connector and slide mechanism may include a flexible hinge and respectively. In some implementations each hinge may be configured to allow the ancillary display to cover portion of the display of the electronic device while the ancillary display is physically coupled to the electronic device by jack connector and slide mechanism . In some implementations the electronic device may include angled areas and . Angled areas and may be configured to reduce angle restriction for the hinge and while the ancillary display covers a portion of the electronic device.

The computer readable media may include non transitory computer readable storage media which may include hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs DVDs read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of storage media suitable for storing electronic instructions. In addition in some implementations the computer readable media may include a transitory computer readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of computer readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. Finally the order in which the operations are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described operations can be combined in any order and or in parallel to implement the process.

The process at causes the electronic device to receive one or more signals indicting that one or more connectors associated with an ancillary display are coupled to the electronic device. For example in the context of a magnetometer associated with the electronic device may monitor for an indication that each of the magnetic connectors of the ancillary display have contacted an associated cavity on the electronic device.

At the electronic device identifies the secondary display. In some implementations such identification includes determining a display technology of the display screens of the ancillary display and or determining whether the ancillary display has been previously coupled to the electronic device determining setting for the ancillary display among others.

At the secondary display and the electronic device communicate. In some implementations such communication may include data communication regarding content items and or electrical communications to provide power to the ancillary display.

At one or more content items may be rendered on a display of the ancillary display at least partly in response to the communication.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

