---

title: Digital media content management apparatus and method
abstract: A digital media content management apparatus and method for securely storing a content file on a computer readable medium and playing the content file from the computer readable medium is disclosed. The content file comprises control information readable by a content player and payload information including content data. The content file is deconstructed into at least one control information portion and at least one payload information portion being undetectable to a content player of a user device. The control information portion and the payload information portion are separately stored, and at least one of the portions is associated with packing data, and the packing data associated with at least one of the portions comprises a reference to the location of the other portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09075960&OS=09075960&RS=09075960
owner: Now Technologies (IP) Limited
number: 09075960
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20130315
---
This invention relates to apparatus and method for providing digital media content to a user device and controlling at least temporary access of the user device to the digital content and more specifically for providing digital media content to a user device and controlling at least temporary access of the user device to the digital media content.

Digital rights management DRM is commonly used by content publishers and distributors in an attempt to limit access to digital content. DRM technology is used in all forms of digital or electronic formats of documents books music voice audio photographs pictures films television video gaming ringtones ringback tones and the like. DRM techniques typically use file encryption based on accepted algorithms such as Huffman encryption Open Mobile Alliance OMA version 1 OMA version 2 or the like which are delivered in a container that decrypts the file in order to limit the access to the digital content. Such DRM mechanisms add to the overall system complexity may increase system processing time and resources and may increase implementation costs. There is a need for digital content management apparatus and method that addresses or at least alleviates the above whilst at the same time offering a unique yet secure means of transmitting storing and making available for use digital media content.

An aspect of the invention is a method of securely storing a content file on a computer readable medium and playing the content file from the computer readable medium the method comprising receiving a content file the content file comprising control information readable by a content player and payload information including content data deconstructing the content file into at least one control information portion and at least one payload information portion separately storing the control information portion and the payload information portion wherein at least one of the portions is associated with packing data and the packing data associated with at least one of the portions comprises a reference to the location of the other portion.

In an embodiment the computer readable medium is on an end user device comprising a content player. Then at least one of the control information portion and the payload information portion may be stored in a part of the end user device not visible to a user in normal use. The control information portion and the payload information portion may be stored in the persistent or non volatile RAM of the user device that is inaccessible by the average user. The content player on the end user device may be configured to play the content file by accessing reference information and reconstituting the control information portion and payload information portion into a reconstituted content file such that the reconstituted content file is delivered to the content player in real time. The content player of the end user device may be configured to deconstruct the content file into at least one control information portion and at least one payload information portion and store at least one control information portion and at least one payload information portion on a computer readable medium of the device after the content file has been played based on access information indicating temporary access. The content player of the end user device may be configured to receive deconstructed content file portions comprising at least one control information portion and at least one payload information portion and store at least one control information portion and at least one payload information portion on a computer readable medium of the device after the content file has been played based on access information indicating temporary access.

In an embodiment the player of the end user device is configured to store the reconstituted file after playing based on access information indicating non temporary access.

In an embodiment the content player of the end user device is configured to cause reconstitution of the control information portion and the payload information portion into a playable content file and store without playing in response to access information.

In an embodiment the content file is encoded to reduce the file size and selectively remain unsuitable for distribution and playback. The content file may be video audio games ringtones or ringback tones. The content file may be audio in an advanced audio coding AAC format. The content file may be audio in any suitable audio codec. The random data information may be added to header information of the content file. This could be any distribution method. In an embodiment of this the file is distributed using radio networks such as public access radio spectrum WiFi WiMax Bluetooth GSM or CDMA.

An aspect of the invention is an apparatus configured to securely store a content file on a computer readable medium and play the content file from the computer readable medium the apparatus comprising an ingestion module configured to receive a content file the content file comprising control information readable by a content player and payload information including content data and a deconstruction module to deconstruct the content file into at least one control information portion and at least one payload information portion and separately store the control information portion and the payload information portion on the computer readable medium wherein at least one of the portions is associated with packing data and the packing data associated with at least one of the portions comprises a reference to the location of the other portion.

References will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details.

In this description the term chart refers to a list of a ranking of content according to popularity over a given period of time or according to editorial expertise or a list or playlist ordered or unstructured. Examples of charts published in the music industry include branded ordered playlist BOP such as the Billboard 100 MW Club Charts Hot 100 or Top 40. Charts exist for other types of digital media content or mobile digital media content accessories and the term used herein is not intended to be limited to music unless expressly so limited. Charts may be compiled for example on different measures of popularity for example retail purchases download or streaming.

A user is able to download an application from the server to the user device or the application may be provided at the user device prior to purchase by the user. Digital media content for example music content or other content or information may be embedded within the user application such that some consumable content or other information is available from when the application first arrives on the user device . The application enables the user to view a listing of media content such as a chart or list of content such as a music chart in one example a top 40 songs chart. The chart may also be a top 10 a top 20 etc. and or may be based on a genre such as the top 40 R B songs the top 40 classical songs or a branded chart and may be determined for example based on the number of radio plays the number of downloads etc. In addition the content may be for example music music videos movies TV programmes user generated clips such as You Tube and the chart may represent the popularity of the digital media content. The digital media content may be audio video music games books ringtones ringback tones and the like. The media content may be presented to the user in whole or in part or a limited or unlimited version of the digital media content. For example the media content may be presented such as only allowing access to level 1 for a multi level game part of a music song part of a music chart chapters of a book 30 seconds of a song a page of a book or chapter and the like. The digital media conent may be presented in a limited time format for example for an hour a day or a week and the like or limited play format for example for a single playback or set number of playbacks.

Together with being able to view the media content in a list such as a chart on a display provided at the user device the user is also provided temporary or permanent content consumption rights in respect of individual content items in the chart according to content consumption permissions defined in a server. The permissions may define one or more of how the user can play the content e.g. stream and or download whether the user is allowed to share the content with other users and how many users whether the user is allowed to play the content any number of times within a predetermined period of time duration of use such as two days or a week or whether the number of plays is limited.

In the disclosed embodiment it is possible to present targeted and possibly exclusive content to the user. For example if the apparatus knows from subscriber data and or historical use data that a certain day is the birthday of a particular user and that the particular user is a fan of a particular performing artist such as Coldplay or George Clooney then the apparatus can cause transmission of specifically timed content message for example an exclusive video from Coldplay or George Clooney wishing the user a happy birthday.

In an embodiment the location determination module may have a WiFi module with a unique identifier such as a media access control address MAC address a wireless wide area network WWAN radio access network RAN module with a unique identifier international mobile equipment identity IMEI or the like. In the case the location determination module has a WWAN RAN module the location determination module should also have a means of connection to a WWAN RAN with a user identity module SIM card and with the subscriber identity module SIM card the associated international mobile subscriber identity IMSI mobile subscriber integrated services digital network number MSISDN . It will be appreciated that the location determination module could be broadly considered to do all of the above or simply be considered as a global positioning system GPS module. Accordingly the elements of the location determination module of the user device may enhance DRM by adding subscriber specific location encryption decryption and the like.

A control module of the application has access to a server interface which interfaces with the server in this case via a mobile data network . Furthermore the control module has access to a research data storage module a temporary content storage module and a content storage module . In one embodiment the content storage module is not required since the control module has access to the content storage module provided at the user device via the device interface . In an embodiment the content items and content files are stored in a public space or temporary content storage module while the user has access information indicating temporary access. All user and content metadata is stored within the private application areas of random access memory RAM persistent memory non volatile memory or the like and is not accessible by users on the user device. In an embodiment the public space temporary content storage module has a part of the file system that is not visible to the user in normal use for example the files are not visible in the operating system file library to the user. In an embodiment the content items and content files are stored in the private space or content storage modules while the user has access information indicating non temporary access. In an embodiment the conent of the file including the metadata images other constituent parts of the content file and the like are obfuscated from the user. In an embodiment due to the manner and method of the obfuscation the user will only become aware of content associated with the application after they have purchased the content. In another embodiment of the application the user may purchase content from a third party content partner therefore no content is ever associated with the related directories that are visible to the user.

In addition the user interface interface and digital media content interface are all connected to a distribution module . The distribution module is capable of accessing a content storage module an application storage module and a content data storage module . The content storage module may also be accessed via the retail module and the content data storage module may also be accessed via the location module . The distribution module is connected to the research data module which has access to a sentiment engine . The research data module also has access to a research data storage module . An administrator module which is accessible via an administrator interface to at least one administrator is also capable of accessing the research data module . This enables an administrator to configure research data to be monitored and recorded within the research data module . The administrator module is also able to access the digital rights management DRM module which has access to the distribution module .

Once the content file has been purchased the content is released without limitation to the user DRM free . In an embodiment the content file is an audio file and the track is reconstituted and rebuilt as a DRM free media file in the user accessible space. At this time the reconstituted content file or the original content file is made available to the mobile platform on the user device for download and saved to user accessible storage on the user device. Before purchase and while the access permissions are set at temporary access the content is only accessible using the application and the content files cannot be accessed by native players or any third party applications. Upon purchase the content files are reconstituted and become accessible by native players any third party applications or the like.

For example in an embodiment the native media player is unable to access content whilst the content is part of a subscription based delivery as part of the application and service. The user first purchases the content via the application and the content is unlocked becomes DRM free and becomes accessible by the native or third party media players and becomes able to playback the DRM free content.

Accordingly in an embodiment rather than a streaming service the system is a tethered content type service where content files and metadata associated with the content files are downloaded to the user device. The content file is separated and stored as separate controller information or header and payload or content portion data files that are stored with obfuscated filenames undetectable by commercially available content players. The controller information portion and the payload information portion may further be obfuscated with packing data information. The mobile application is arranged to access the required information to rebuild a reconstituted content file for playback in the mobile application. The handling and obfuscation of the content file in this manner ensures that the content file is not stored in ready to play format that is detectable by a content player at any time at the server and that the content file is unable to be shared using transfer methods such as WiFi Bluetooth and the like or used for any other purpose such as ringtones and the like unless the content file has been purchased.

Selecting on branded ordered playlist BOP takes the user to screen of on which the listing of media content such as a chart list in this example is presented with highest positioned track at the top. There are options to play individual tracks according to the subscriber permissions and filter to focus on tracks that represent the new chart entries. Pluralities of tracks can also be played for example based on popularity or randomly according to permissions recorded in the DRM module . Selecting a track from this screen takes the user to a track level screen with a control panel incorporating buttons for forward reverse play and pause. This track level screen also presents buttons for buy tag and share . Selecting buy takes the user to a purchase confirmation screen where the purchase of the track can be confirmed with a single click .

If the user selects More on the track level screen the user is directed to merchandising pages where the user can buy merchandise or tickets related to the track. They should also be shown more media files available for download.

If the user device is not provided with the application before the user device is shipped then the application can be downloaded from a link using a suitable wired or wireless communications protocol for example the user device application may be retrieved from server via the user interface and the internet mobile wireless radio network . In order to obtain a copy of the application the user is connected via the internet mobile wireless radio network to the server . The users device interfaces with the apparatus provided at the server via the user interface . A request for the application is provided from the user device to the distribution module which accesses the application held in the application storage module and transfers it to the user device via the user interface and the internet mobile wireless radio network .

The application may support two or more subscription levels for example the first may be a free or limited function version that may have limited content such as a limited listing of media content such as a chart such as a top 10 only and or may have limited content access permissions such as one or more songs within the chart can only be accessed and played once by the user. In addition the application may be available as a paid for or fully functional version which has a more complete chart such as a branded ordered playlist BOP or perhaps a selection of different charts such as the top 40 in US and top 40 in the UK and one or more items of content within the chart have greater user access permissions for example four plays of each content or continuous play within a defined time period.

In one embodiment the apparatus is configured to send content samples for example a 30 second extract from any track. Such track samples may be listened to a finite number of times or repeat played for a predetermined duration or a combination. In one embodiment the consumption permissions of each track are related to the chart position. For example a track in the top 10 may have more limited access permissions than a track appearing outside the top ten. In such a case a track outside the top 10 or under a particular promotion may be priced lower than a track inside the top 10.

Alternatively or in addition the consumption permission is set up by an administrator based on promotions intended to be offered. In one embodiment the user may or may not be required to pay for the application. In an embodiment where the user is required to pay for the application the distribution module passes the user to a payment server not illustrated provided separate from the server . The payment server may be accessed via the interface . Payment servers are known to a person skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail in this application. However in one embodiment the user may be required to enter their credit card details and or where appropriate a password in order for their payment to be verified. Following verification of payment the distribution module will then transfer the application from a storage module to the user device and activate it or just activate the application if it is already installed on the user device. Following activation of the application according to the subscription level the user is able to access all of the functions available at the server . It will be appreciated that other embodiments may include other payment methods or multiple payment options.

The user may select one or more of a plurality of different listing of media content such as a chart to access. The charts with reference to songs maybe for example the top 40 R B tunes the top 40 classical tunes the top 40 pop tunes etc. The user may also select one of the plurality of charts based on their location for example the top 40 charts in Germany may be different from the top 40 charts provided in the UK or the US etc. Therefore the user can access a chart relevant to their location and their tastes. The distribution module receives the chart data via the digital media content interface from a plurality of different chart providers . The distribution module then provides the relevant chart to the user via the user interface . The user selected chart is provided to the user together with permission information setting out the users permissions to access the content in this case songs itemized in the chart. The permissions may indicate for example the number of times the user can play each song within the chart or a duration within which the user can play each song in the chart an unlimited number of times whether the user can share the songs detailed in the charts with other users etc. The permissions are defined in the DRM module and will be explained in further detail below.

In preferred embodiments the content is configurable with default permissions for each of a number of user subscriber levels. A user level record for each user then records the consumption behavior e.g. a list of events by content item associated with each user. The events recorded include the users own consumption events by track and optionally also events associated with social network friends. Such an approach enables administrators to set up permissions by track and the user level records can then be used to set up and monitor individual entitlements. For example if a track falls out of the 40 and comes back in again later a user may only get remaining plays of their permitted entitlement. In other words if they had entitlement to listen to a media file 5 times and listened to it 3 times before it dropped out of the listing of media content such as a chart then if it re enters the charts the user may only be entitled to listen to the media file twice before buying it. The permissions and or pricing may be adjusted from time to time or periodically and optionally automatically based on how often a user consumes content. The sentiment engine can access the user level records of consumption events and or monitor the consumption events and modes directly as will be explained later.

In one embodiment the apparatus operates changing permissions based upon the degree to which a given user influences the consumption of other users. For example the user level record can record data on the number of consumption events by social network friends of the user or more specifically may record the number of consumption events by social network friends with whom the user directly shared the track. In such records consumption events include any mode of consumption for example any type of play purchase or share of a track or a sample.

In some embodiments the nature of the consumption event is also recorded such that more weight can be afforded to events like purchase. For example in one embodiment each event recorded by the sentiment engine receives an allocated point score for example tagging may equate to one point whereas as commentary may equate to 3 points a play may equate to 3 points and a purchase to 5 points. Score data can be analyzed and interpreted by research data module in order to generate reports that can be provided to interested parties and which denote the popularity of content such as music based on user behavior including but not limited to tagging commentary plays purchases and others.

In one such embodiment the apparatus automatically dynamically adjusts permissions based on user influence data after predetermined periods or at predefined influence levels. Alternatively or in addition the apparatus may adjust pricing of subscriber levels or content items to individual users in dependence upon their influence data. This may allow administrators to alter how much users are charged up and down for the purchase of any given content.

The user is able to view the listing of media content such as a chart via the display device at the user device . In one embodiment the display device is a touch screen such that user selections can be transferred from the display to the sever via the application . In another embodiment an input device not illustrated is provided at the device such that the user can input selections.

As stated previously the digital media content such as chart data video audio voice games ringtone ringback tones images indexed or unindexed reading material and the like is provided to the distribution module from the plurality of chart providers . However the content of the chart i.e. the data files corresponding to each item within the chart is held in the content storage module at the server . The content for example songs although not limited to songs because it could be games videos etc. may be stored in the storage module .

The methods and apparatus described may be implemented at least in part in software. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the apparatus described may be implemented using general purpose computers or using bespoke equipment. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing has described what is considered to be the best mode and where appropriate other modes of performing the invention the invention should not be limited to the specific configurations and methods disclosed in this description of an embodiment of the invention. Those skilled in the art will recognise that the invention has a broad range of applications and that the embodiments may take a wide range of modifications without departing from the inventive concept as defined by the appended claims.

The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such computers are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load.

Hence aspects of the methods and apparatus described herein can be executed on a mobile station and on a computing device such as a server. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the memory of the mobile stations computers processors or the like or associated modules hereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another computer or processor. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to tangible non transitory storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. As mentioned the user device may be any device such as a mobile telephone tablet MP3 player a lap top computer a personal digital assistant PDA or the like which is provided with a communication interface and music playing capabilities with any type of communication capability such as wireless WiFi WiMax third generation mobile technology 3G fourth generation mobile communication technology 4G or the like.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the data aggregator the customer communication systems etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD OR DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape and other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

