---

title: Data card and method for internet access of data card
abstract: The present invention provides a data card and a method for Internet access of the data card. The method for Internet access of the data card includes: after the data card is connected to a host, mapping the data card into an Internet access device by using an Ethernet interface protocol; obtaining, by the data card, dial-up information, and dialing by using the dial-up information to request to connect to a network; and performing, by the Internet access device, communication between the host and the network. By using the technical solutions provided by embodiments of the present invention, fast Internet access may be implemented without installing a driver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223746&OS=09223746&RS=09223746
owner: Huawei Device Co., Ltd.
number: 09223746
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20130516
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 340 268 filed on Dec. 29 2011 which claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 201110036920.5 filed on Feb. 12 2011. The afore mentioned patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates to the field of wireless communication technologies and in particular to a data card and a method for Internet access of the data card.

With the extensive application of a mobile wireless communication technology a data card that supports various wireless access technologies emerges for example a 3G data card or a 3G USB Modem. These data cards are also called mobile broadband devices.

In the conventional art an Internet access process of a data card and a service running process of a data card mainly include 

A device descriptor is reported according to a USB protocol where the device descriptor describes that the data card is a storage device. After receiving the device descriptor the host delivers an initialization request of the storage device to the data card. The data card performs initialization according to the initialization request after the initialization is completed the data card is mapped into a storage magnetic disk on the host.

To map the data card into a functional device the driver and PC client software need to be installed. The functional device refers to a device that can complete a main function of the data card for example an Internet access function. The main function of the data card is developed by an equipment vendor. To implement the function the equipment vendor provides a dedicated driver and PC client software. The PC client software refers to a high layer application on the PC and is used to provide an operating interface so as to implement services such as dial up access traffic statistics short message and phone book.

 4 A user performs dial up through the PC client software to implement Internet access. The user performs another service and a management task by running the PC client software for example short message receiving and sending.

Currently a majority of data cards have USB interfaces and only a few data cards use Express interfaces. As shown in after the driver is run on the host the modem may be mapped into a serial port after a PC client program is installed on the host the PC client program provides the user with an operating interface receives an operation instruction entered by the user and performs information interaction with the data card through an AT command to implement services such as dial up access traffic statistics short message and phone book. The AT command is a standard modem interface protocol defined by the ITU T.

When the data card is used initially the user needs to install driver software provided by the equipment vendor. It takes about one to five minutes to install the driver software. Sometimes the time needed may be longer because an OS needs to be restarted.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a data card and a method for Internet access of the data card so that fast Internet access may be implemented without installing a driver.

after a data card is connected to a host mapping the data card into an Internet access device by using an Ethernet interface protocol 

obtaining by the data card dial up information and dialing by using the dial up information to request to connect to a network and

an initializing module configured to after the data card is connected to a host report a device descriptor that is compliant with a requirement of a device specification of an Ethernet interface protocol to the host and configure a parameter of a device function program according to an initialization command that is sent by the host and compliant with the Ethernet interface protocol so that the device function program is mapped into an Ethernet interface 

a dialing module configured to obtain dial up information and dial by using the dial up information to request to connect to a network 

a communicating module configured to after the device function program is configured when data which is sent by the configured device function program and is from the host is Internet service data send the data which is sent by the configured device function program and is from the host to the connected network and send data from the network to the configured device function program and

the configured device function program configured to send data from the host to the communicating module and send data from the communicating module to the host.

According to the embodiments of the present invention the data card is mapped into the Internet access device by using the Ethernet interface protocol so that the data card has the Internet access function the data card with the Internet access function allocates an address to the host and performs communication between the host and the network by using the address allocated to the host and an address that the network allocates to the data card. In this way the host may be quickly connected to the network without installing a driver.

The technical solutions according to the embodiments of the present invention are described clearly and completely below with reference to the accompanying drawings according to the embodiments of the present invention. Apparently the embodiments described below are merely part of rather than all of the embodiments of the present invention. Based on the embodiments of the present invention all other embodiments obtained by persons of ordinary skill in the art without making creative efforts shall fall within the scope of the present invention.

Referring to an embodiment of the present invention provides a method for Internet access of a data card where the method mainly includes 

The Ethernet interface protocol is an Ethernet control model Ethernet Control Model ECM protocol or a remote network device interface specification Remote Network Device Interface Specification RNDIS protocol.

In step the data card may be directly mapped into an Internet access device or the data card may be mapped into a storage device first and then the data card switches a mode and is mapped into an Internet access device. A process of mapping the data card into an Internet access device includes The data card reports a device descriptor that is compliant with a requirement of a device specification of the Ethernet interface protocol to the host where the device descriptor is used to trigger the host to run an Ethernet interface driver the data card receives an initialization command that is sent by the Ethernet interface driver run on the host and compliant with the Ethernet interface protocol the data card performs initialization according to the initialization command so that the data card has an Internet access function.

If the data card is mapped into a storage device first the host runs a software module stored in the storage device before the data card reports the device descriptor that is compliant with the requirement of the device specification of the Ethernet interface protocol to the host and then send a mode switching command to the data card by using an application or a driver or modifying registry. The mode switching command triggers the data card to report the device descriptor that is compliant with the requirement of the device specification of the Ethernet interface protocol to the host so as to trigger the host to run the Ethernet interface driver.

In step the obtaining by the data card the dial up information includes When pre stored dial up information exists obtaining the pre stored dial up information where the pre stored dial up information is one piece of the following dial up information previous dial up information of a user dial up information of an operator and dial up information stored in a subscriber identity module card inserted in the data card when no pre stored dial up information exists obtaining dial up information that the user enters on a Web page. When the pre stored dial up information exists automatic dial up is performed by using the pre stored dial up information which does not require user manual input and thus a network access speed may be increased and user experience may be improved. There may be different forms of dial up information for different networks. For example for a wideband code division multiple access Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA network dial up information includes a dialing number and an access point name Access Point Name APN identifier string for a wideband code division multiple access Wideband Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network dial up information includes a dialing number a user name and a password.

The data card may perform dialing by using a Web framework to request to connect to the network. The Web framework is used to provide an operating interface so as to implement services such as dial up access short message and phone book. For a specific manner for dialing by using the Web framework reference is made to the detail description in subsequent embodiments. Optionally the data card may perform dialing by using PC client software rather than the Web framework.

Step and step are executed in sequence while step and step to step do not have an order in terms of execution and may be executed in parallel.

According to the embodiment of the present invention the data card is mapped into the Internet access device by using the Ethernet interface protocol so that the data card has the Internet access function the data card with the Internet access function allocates the address to the host and performs communication between the host and the network by using the address allocated to the host and the address that the network allocates to the data card. In this way the host may be quickly connected to the network without installing a driver. In addition if dial up access is performed directly by using the pre stored dial up information a dial up speed may be further increased.

To help understand the technical solution provided by the foregoing embodiment of the present invention more clearly the following embodiment describes a method for Internet access of a data card in detail.

Referring to an embodiment of the present invention provides a method for Internet access of a data card where the method includes 

Any operating system may be run on the host for example operating systems such as Windows Mac and Linux.

For a process of mapping the data card into an Internet access device reference is made to the detail description in a subsequent embodiment as shown in .

After the data card is powered on the Web framework is started automatically. The Web framework includes a Web application a Web protocol stack and a Web software development kit. The Web protocol stack includes a Web server and a TCP IP protocol stack. Reference is made to the detail description in subsequent embodiments for details.

For a process of dial up access by the data card reference is made to the detail description in a subsequent embodiment as shown in .

Any operating system may be run on the host for example operating systems such as Windows Mac and Linux.

The device descriptor describes features of the data card and describes the data card as an Internet access device.

The Ethernet interface protocol may be an ECM protocol or RNDIS protocol. In this step the data card determines according to the USB command whether a current operating system run on the host is the Windows operation system if the current operation system run on the host is the Windows operation system the data card reports a device descriptor that is compliant with a requirement of a device specification of the RNDIS protocol to the host if the current operation system run on the host is not the Windows operation system the data card reports a device descriptor that is compliant with a requirement of a device specification of the ECM protocol to the host.

Specifically it may be an initializing module in the data card that reports a device descriptor that is compliant with the requirement of the device specification of the Ethernet interface protocol to the host after receiving the USB command

The Ethernet interface driver may be an ECM driver or an RNDIS driver. The Ethernet interface driver is a driver included in the operating system. If the Windows operating system is run on the host the Ethernet interface driver is an RNDIS driver and the host loads the RNDIS driver to the memory and runs the RNDIS driver. If an operating system other than the Windows operating system is run on the host currently the Ethernet interface driver is an ECM driver and the host loads the ECM driver to the memory and runs the ECM driver.

Specifically it may be the initializing module in the data card that initializes a device function program in the data card after receiving the initialization command so that the device function program is mapped into an Ethernet interface and that the data card has the Internet access function. Then the initializing module feeds back a response message that is compliant with the Ethernet interface protocol to the host. The initializing the device function program in the data card is configuring a parameter in the device function program.

Subsequently if the response message received by the host indicates that the data card is initialized successfully the host sends an address allocation request message to the data card after receiving the address allocation request message the data card allocates an IP address to the host and sends the IP address to the host.

Specifically after receiving an address allocation request the device function program in the data card sends the address allocation request to the TCP IP protocol stack in the data card the TCP IP protocol stack in the data card allocates an IP address to the host and sends the IP address to the host.

Generally after the user is connected to the network through dial up the user usually uses dial up information the same as the previous dial up information to access the network again later. Therefore in this step whether the previous dial up information of the user exists is judged.

An operator may require an equipment vendor to add an operator configuration table to the Web framework. In this way when the data card is delivered the Web framework of the data card stores the operator configuration table that stores information configured by the operator. This step is to judge whether the operator configuration table has the dial up information configured by the operator.

The operator may pre store dial up information in the subscriber identity module card where the subscriber identity module card may be a SIM card a USIM card or a UIM card. The SIM card is a subscriber identity module card applicable on a 2G network the USIM card is a subscriber identity module card applicable on a wideband code division multiple access Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA network while the UIM card is a subscriber identity module card applicable on a wideband code division multiple access Wideband Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network.

The Web framework stores an equipment vendor configuration table that stores information configured by the equipment vendor. Because most of dial up information used by global operators is public the equipment vendor may write the dial up information to the equipment vendor configuration table. In this way when the data card is delivered the equipment vendor configuration table already stores the dial up information.

It should be noted that the foregoing steps to are executed by a first dialing module of dialing modules in the Web framework after the Web framework is started.

After the Web framework is started the user may enter an address of the data card in an Internet browser to open a Web framework page. If the user clicks the Dial up button a dial up page may appear in the Internet browser. The user enters the dial up information on the dial up page.

The address of the data card refers to the IP address of the Web framework of the data card or the Web address of the Web framework of the data card.

It should be noted that the four judgments in the foregoing steps to do not have a certain execution order. Optionally the judgment in step may be executed first when the judgment result is false in step the judgment in step is executed when the judgment result is false in step the judgments in step and step are executed. Alternatively the judgment in step is executed first when the judgment result is false in step the judgments in step and step are executed in sequence when the judgment result is false in step the judgment in step is executed.

After the data card is inserted in the host and connected to the network the data card processes data from the host. The data from the host is divided into two types. One type is Internet application data. An Internet application data stream may come from a Web page browsed by the Internet browser of the host or come from Internet application software for example instant messaging software such as QQ and MSN. The other type is a management command. The management command is a command used to operate a data card service for example a command for sending a short message.

The network application on the host includes an Internet application and Internet browser where the Internet application may be instant messaging software such as QQ and MSN.

The network port mapping program is a network port mapping program at a host side and the network port mapping program at the host side includes an Ethernet interface driver at the host side and a USB driver at the host side. Specifically after receiving the data packet sent by the TCP IP protocol stack the Ethernet interface driver at the host side invokes the USB driver at the host side in an operating system to send the data packet to the data card through the USB port.

The network port mapping program in the data card is the network port driver at a device side. The network port driver at the device side includes a device function program and a USB driver at the device side. Specifically the USB driver at the device side receives the data packet and sends the data packet to the device function program the device function program sends the data packet to the Web framework.

Specifically if the destination address of the data packet is the address of the data card it is determines that the data in the data packet is the management command Specifically the address of the data card may be the IP address of the data card or the domain name of the data card.

If the management command indicates that a page is provided for the user to an implement specific service by using the page for example a dial up access page is provided for the user to enter specific dial up information on the page or a short message sending page is provided the Web page content to be displayed is an html file stored in the Web framework for example a dialup.html file. If the management command indicates that a specific service needs to be implemented the Web framework needs to implement a specific service according to the management command and refresh the Web page content according to the service implementation result. The refreshed Web page content is the Web page content to be displayed. For example the management command indicates that specific content of a short message text is sent to a phone number of a recipient the Web framework may invoke a short message service interface provided by board software the short message service interface provided by the board software is a low layer interface function of the MBB to send the specific content of the short message text to the phone number of the recipient. The Web framework refreshes the Web page content according to the sending result namely success or failure and encapsulates the refreshed Web page content for sending. In this way after the host receives the encapsulated content subsequently a short message sending result may be displayed to notify the user of whether the short message is sent successfully.

Specifically the transmission of the management command and Internet service data is shown in . In the dotted line indicates the management command and the solid line indicates the Internet service data.

Referring to a specific method for processing a data stream from the host is described below. In this method it is assumed that data from the host is a management command and that the management command indicates that a page is provided for a user to implement a specific service by using the page. For example the management command indicates that a dial up access page is provided for the user to enter specific dial up information on the page or that a short message sending page is provided for the user to enter a specific phone number of a short message recipient and text content of a short message on the page. The method specifically includes 

Specifically if the destination address of the data packet is the address of the data card the Web protocol stack determines that the data in the data packet is the management command. Specifically the address of the data card may be the IP address of the data card or the domain name of the data card.

The Web page content may be an html file and may also be a jsp Java Server Pages file or an active server page Active Server Page asp file or a hypertext preprocessor Hypertext Preprocessor php file. This embodiment of the present invention is described based on an html file. In other embodiments a file in another format may also be used which does not affect the implementation of the present invention.

Specifically the transmission of the management command and Internet service data is as shown in . In the dotted line indicates the management command and the solid line indicates the Internet service data.

As shown in and another process of processing a data stream from a host is described below where the process specifically includes 

For example if the management command indicates that the specific text content of a short message is sent to the phone number of a recipient the Web protocol stack sends the management command to the Web application.

In the embodiment the data content includes the text content of the short message and the phone number of the recipient.

In this embodiment of the present invention the Web software development kit includes a service invocation layer namely Service Invocation Layer referred to as SIL a service container and a service provider interface Service Provider Interface referred to as SPI . The service container includes each specific service implementing module and each service implementing module has one or multiple service implementation interfaces for example a dialing module includes a dial up interface and a short message module may include a short message sending interface and a short message receiving interface so that the service invocation layer can invoke these interfaces. The service provider interface is invoked by the service invocation layer and or the service implementation interface. The service provider interface encapsulates an input parameter according to a command format supported by the board software in the data card and then invokes a communication adaptation layer interface provided by the board software. It should be noted that the service implementation interface and the service provider interface that are in the Web software development kit belong to API interfaces.

The indication information indicating that the specific service needs to be implemented in step A indicates a type of management command and a specific service operation. The type of management command refers to Send Modify or Get where the Send Modify is represented by the POST parameter and the Get is represented by the GET parameter. The specific service operation may be divided into a simple service operation and a complex service operation. The simple service operation refers to executing a simple AT command or QMI command. The AT command or QMI command is generally entered by an administrator in the Internet browser. After the service invocation layer identifies that the specific service operation indicated by the indication information is a simple service operation the service invocation layer invokes the service provider interface directly. The complex service operation generally refers to an operation such as sending a short message by the user. After the service invocation layer identifies that the specific service operation indicated by the indication information is a complex service operation the service invocation layer needs to invoke a specific service implementation interface. In this step the service invocation layer the service container and the service provider interface are used to implement the specific service. For a specific implementation process reference is made to the detail description in subsequent embodiments.

Specifically the transmission of the management command and Internet service data is shown in . In the dotted line indicates the management command and the solid line indicates the Internet service data.

The following specifically describes a process of processing a data stream by taking an example of sending a short message.

Specifically a process of receiving a short message sending command by the Web application includes After the user clicks the Send button the Internet browser obtains a short message sending command encapsulates the short message sending command into a data packet in the HTTP format and sends the data packet to the TCP IP protocol stack on the host the TCP IP protocol stack on the host encapsulates the data packet in the HTTP format and sends the encapsulated data packet to the data card after receiving the data packet the TCP IP protocol stack of the data card decapsulates the data packet determines according to the destination address of the data packet that the data in the data packet is a management command and sends the data packet which is obtained through the decapsulation and in the HTTP format to the HTTP server. After decapsulating the data packet the HTTP server obtains a short message sending command and sends the short message sending command to the Web application.

It is assumed that the phone number of the recipient is 12512345678 and that the text content of the short message is This is a demo sms text. 

The HTTP file includes a data header and data content. The data header is POST api sms send HTTP 1.1 and includes four parameters namely POST sms send and HTTP 1.1. Specifically the POST indicates that the type of the management command is Send or Modify the HTTP 1.1 indicates that the HTTP version is version 1.1 the sms send indicates that a short message sending interface in a short message module needs to be invoked subsequently to send a short message.

The data content of the HTTP file includes two fields. Definitions of the two fields are as shown in Table 1.

The service container stores each service implementation interface for example a dial up interface used for dial up access and a short message sending interface used to send a short message.

The service invocation layer parses the data content to obtain the phone number of the recipient and text content of the short message and invokes the short message sending interface by using the phone number of the recipient and text content of the short message as the input parameter of the short message sending interface namely 

The short message service interface provided by the board software is a low layer interface function of the data card.

The command format supported by the board software may be an AT command and may also be a QIM command

The detail process that the Web application sends the refreshed Web page content to the host and the host displays the short message sending result is similar to that of steps A to A and is not repeatedly described here.

The following describes a specific implementation process of step with reference to a specific structure of the Web framework.

Specifically the process that the Web application receives a dial up command is similar to the foregoing process of receiving a short message sending command and is not repeatedly described here.

The HTTP file includes a data header and data content. The data content includes dial up information and the data header includes indication information indicating a dial up service.

It should be noted that a Web framework page needs to be opened before step and step . The process of opening the Web framework page includes The user may enter the address of the data card and a page file for example the user enters http 192.168.1.1 index.html in the Internet browser the Internet browser encapsulates the content entered by the user obtain a data packet in the HTTP format and sends the data packet to the TCP IP protocol stack on the host the TCP IP protocol stack on the host encapsulates the data packet in the HTTP format and sends the encapsulated data packet to the data card. After receiving the data packet the TCP IP protocol stack of the data card decapsulates the data packet determines according to the destination address of the data packet that the data in the data packet is a management command and sends the data packet which is obtained through the decapsulation and in the HTTP format to the HTTP server. After decapsulating the data packet the HTTP server searches the Web application for an index.html file encapsulates the index.html file into a data packet in the HTTP format and sends the data packet to the TCP IP protocol stack of the data card. The TCP IP protocol stack of the received data card encapsulates the data packet from the HTTP server and sends the encapsulated data packet to the host. The TCP IP protocol stack on the host decapsulates the data packet from the data card to obtain a data packet in the HTTP format and sends the data packet to the Internet browser. The Internet browser decapsulates the data packet in the HTTP format to obtain an index.html file corresponding to the short message sending page and displays a Web framework page according to the index.html file.

It should be noted that remote management may also be performed by using the foregoing Web framework. As shown in it is assumed that a host A and a host B are PCs on a mobile network a host C is a PC on a public network connected to the mobile network 10.11.1.100 in the figure is an address that the mobile network allocates to a data card after the host A accesses the Internet through dial up access by using the data card 192.168.1.1 is the address that the data card allocates to the host A 10.11.1.200 is the address of the host B 231.11.22.33 is the address of the host C 10.11.1.1 is the address that the mobile network allocates to a gateway 202.12.6.12 is the address that the public network allocates to the gateway after http 10.11.1.100 is entered in a browser on the host B a Web framework page in the data card is opened then a remote management task is performed same as the host A uses the data card locally for example a short message is sent or dial up access is implemented remotely. http 202.12.6.12 port number is entered in a browser on the host C. An operator configures a mapping relationship between a port number and an intranet address of the mobile network that is 10.11.1.100 on the gateway. The gateway opens the Web framework page in the data card according to the mapping relationship. The specific process that the host C accesses 10.11.1.100 is similar to that in the conventional art and is not repeatedly described here.

an initializing module configured to after the data card is connected to a host report a device descriptor that is compliant with a requirement of a device specification of an Ethernet interface protocol to the host and configure a parameter of a device function program according to an initialization command that is sent by the host and compliant with the Ethernet interface protocol so that the device function program is mapped into an Ethernet interface 

a dialing module configured to obtain dial up information and dial by using the dial up information to request to connect to a network 

a communicating module configured to after the device function program is configured send data which is sent by the configured device function program and is from the host to the connected network and sends data from the network to the configured device function program and

the configured device function program configured to send data from the host to the communicating module and send data from the communicating module to the host.

The TCP IP protocol stack is configured to after the device function program is initialized allocate an address to the host when data in a data packet sent by the initialized device function program is Internet service data send a first data packet to the MBB protocol stack by using the address that the TCP IP protocol stack allocates to the host and an address that the network allocates to the data card where the first data packet is a data packet whose source address is the address that the network allocates to the data card and the first data packet includes the Internet service data receive a data packet sent by the MBB wireless protocol stack and send a second data packet to the initialized device function program where the source address of the second data packet is the address that the TCP IP protocol stack allocates to the host and the second data packet includes Internet service data in the data packet sent by the MBB wireless protocol stack.

The configured device function program is configured to send the address that the TCP IP protocol stack allocates to the host to the host send the data packet from the host to the TCP IP protocol stack and send the second data packet from the TCP IP protocol stack to the host.

The MBB wireless protocol stack is configured to receive the address that the network allocates to the data card send the address that the network allocates to the data card to the TCP IP protocol stack process the data packet from the TCP IP protocol stack and send the processed data packet to the network and process the data packet from the network and send the processed data packet to the TCP IP protocol stack.

The dialing module is configured to when pre stored dial up information exists obtain the pre stored dial up information and dial by using the pre stored dial up information to request to connect to the network where the pre stored dial up information is one piece of the following dial up information previous dial up information of a user dial up information of an operator and dial up information stored in a subscriber identity module card inserted in the data card when no pre stored dial up information exists dial by using dial up information entered by the user to request to connect to the network.

According to the embodiment of the present invention the data card is mapped into the Internet access device by using the Ethernet interface protocol so that the data card has an Internet access function the data card with the Internet access function allocates the address to the host and performs communication between the host and the network by using the address allocated to the host and the address that the network allocates to the data card. In this way the host may be quickly connected to the network without installing a driver.

Referring to an embodiment of the present invention provides a data card. The data card includes an initializing module a device function program a Web framework and board software .

The initializing module and the device function program have the same structures and functions as the initializing module and the device function program according to the foregoing embodiment and are not repeatedly described here.

Specifically referring to the Web framework includes a Web application a Web protocol stack and a Web software development kit .

The Web application stores Web page content that may exist in an html format. The Web protocol stack includes a Web server and a TCP IP protocol stack . The Web software development kit includes a service invocation layer a service container and a service providing module . The service container includes each specific service implementation module for example a dialing module and a short message module. The dialing module includes a first dialing module and a dial up interface. The short message module may include a short message sending interface and a short message receiving interface. The dial up interface the short message sending interface and the short message receiving interface are called service implementation interfaces which are invoked by the service invocation layer. The service providing module includes multiple service provider interfaces that are invoked by the service implementation interfaces in the service invocation layer and or the service implementation module. The service provider interface encapsulates an input parameter according to a command format supported by board software in a data card and then invokes a service interface provided by the board software to implement a corresponding service.

The TCP IP protocol stack has all the functions of the TCP IP protocol stack according to the foregoing embodiment and is not repeatedly described here. In addition the TCP IP protocol stack is further configured to judge whether a destination address of data sent by the initialized device function program is an address of the data card if the destination address of the data sent by the initialized device function program is not the address of the data card determine that the data sent by the initialized device function program is Internet service data if the destination address of the data sent by the initialized device function program is the address of the data card determine that the data sent by the initialized device function program is a management command and send the management command to the Web server.

The Web server is configured to judge whether the management command is a first management command or a second management command where the first management command is a management command used to indicate that a preset Web page content needs to be provided and the second management command is a management command used to indicate that a specific service needs to be implemented if the management command is the second management command send the second management command to the Web application module if the management command is the first management command search according to the first management command the Web application module for Web page content corresponding to the first management command and send the found Web page content to the TCP IP protocol stack. Subsequently the TCP IP protocol stack encapsulates the Web page content and sends the encapsulated content to the host and an Internet browser on the host displays the Web page content.

The Web application module is configured to generate data content according to the second management command invoke an API interface that is suitable for sending a Web service message package send a Web service message package to the Web server where the Web service message package includes a data header and data content where the data header includes indication information indicating a specific service to be implemented.

The Web server is further configured to parse the Web service message package and send the data content and the indication information to the service invocation layer in the Web software development kit.

The service invocation layer is configured to invoke according to the indication information the service provider interface or the service implementation interface by using a parameter in the data content as an input parameter where the parameter in the data content includes information entered by the user and the service provider interface or the service implementation interface belong to the API interface.

The service implementation interface is configured to encode the parameter in the data content determine a service provider interface that needs to be invoked and invoke the service provider interface by using an encoding result as an input parameter. For example if the management command indicates that a short message is sent to a phone number the service provider interface is a short message sending interface.

The service provider interface is configured to encapsulate the encoding result or the parameter in the data content to obtain an encapsulation structure supported by the board software and invoke a service interface provided by the board software by using the encapsulation structure as an input parameter. For example if the management command indicates that a short message is sent to a phone number the service provider interface may be a short message sending service provider interface. Reference may be made to the corresponding description in the method embodiments as shown in and for the invocation among the service invocation layer the service implementation interface and the service provider interface which is not repeatedly described here.

Specifically the dialing module includes a first dialing module and or a dial up interface. The first dialing module is configured to when pre stored dial up information exists obtain the pre stored dial up information and invoke a dial up service provider interface by using the pre stored dial up information as an input parameter where the dial up service provider interface is used to encapsulate the encoding result to obtain an encapsulation structure supported by the board software and invoke a dial up service interface provided by the board software corresponding to a dial up service by using the encapsulation structure as an input parameter and dial through the dial up service interface provided by the board software corresponding to the dial up service so as to request to connect to the network where the data card is already registered. The dial up interface and the dial up service provider interface belong to an API interface and are generally function interfaces. Specifically similarly to the embodiment as shown in the first dialing module may first judge whether the first dialing module stores previous dial up information of a user if the first dialing module stores the previous dial up information of the user the first dialing module invokes the dial up service provider interface by using the previous dial up information of the user if the first dialing module does not store the previous dial up information of the user the first dialing module judges whether an operator configuration table stored in the first dialing module has dial up information if the operator configuration table has dial up information the first dialing module invokes the dial up service provider interface by using the dial up information if the operator configuration table does not have dial up information the first dialing module judges whether a subscriber identity module card inserted in the data card has dial up information if the subscriber identity module card has dial up information the first dialing module invokes the dial up service provider interface by using the dial up information if the subscriber identity module card does not have dial up information the first dialing module judges whether an equipment vendor configuration table stored in the first dialing module has dial up information if the equipment vendor configuration table has dial up information the first dialing module invokes the dial up service provider interface by using the dial up information.

When no pre stored dial up information exists the first dialing module fails to dial up and the host is not connected to the network. In this case the user may open a Web framework page through the Internet browser of the host and click a Dial up button. Then the Internet browser may display a dial up page where the user enters the dial up information and the host sends a management command indicating dial up access to the data card. At this time the Web server is configured to decapsulate a first Web service message package sent by an Internet browser on the host to obtain a management command and send the management command to the Web application module where the management command is used to indicate that a dial up access service is needed and includes dial up information entered by the user parse a second Web service message package sent by the Web application module and send the indication information and data content that are in the second Web service message package to the service invocation layer. The Web application module is configured to generate data content according to the management command sent by the TCP IP protocol stack and invoke an application programming interface API that is suitable for sending the second Web service message package to send the second Web service message package to the Web server where the second Web service message package includes a data header and data content. The data header includes indication information indicating that a dial up access service is needed. The data content includes dial up information entered by the user. The service invocation layer is configured to determine according to the indication information that the dial up access service is needed and invoke the dial up interface by using the dial up information entered by the user as an input parameter. Reference is made to the corresponding description in the embodiment as shown in and for the specific dialing process which is not repeatedly described here.

The board software includes an MBB wireless protocol stack and an AT application and or a QMI application . The AT application and the QMI application include service interfaces provided by the board software for example the short message sending interface and dial up interface.

It should be noted that the foregoing Web software development kit may further include an adaptation layer interface OS Adapter . Because different device platforms may have different operating systems to normalize software development the OS adapter encapsulates programming interfaces of different operating systems. In this way differences between operating systems may not need to be taken into consideration for specific service implementation interfaces in the Web software development kit.

It should be noted that the data card may also include client software. In this way after the data card is mapped into a storage device the host obtains the client software from a storage device and runs the client software. Then the host performs services such as dial up access.

According to the embodiments of the present invention the data card is mapped into the Internet access device by using the Ethernet interface protocol so that the data card has an Internet access function the data card with the Internet access function allocates an address to the host and performs communication between the host and the network by using the address allocated to the host and the address that the network allocates to the data card. In this way the host may be quickly connected to the network without installing a driver and PC client software. Further in the conventional art after the driver and PC client software are installed the user double clicks the PC client software to initialize the PC client software so as to provide the user with an operating interface for starting dial up. This process takes about five to ten seconds while the dial up access process also takes five to ten seconds. Therefore the entire dial up access process takes 10 to 20 seconds. However according to the present invention the dial up access may be performed by using the pre stored dial up information to speed up the network access. Further because the size of a Web page file is far smaller than that of the PC client software where the size of the PC client software is 80 M and the size of the Web page file is 5 M a hardware requirement of the data card is reduced and a cost is lowered. Further an OS on the PC mainly may be Windows MacOS and Linux and each type of OS includes multiple sub versions for example the sub versions of Linux include Ubuntu Fedora and Debian. The data card is not only used on the PC but also used in an embedded field. In this case the OS is more diversified including various embedded Linux such as WindowsCE WindowsMobile and Android. Almost every type of OS has its own special development platform and programming language but cannot be used across different platforms. In the conventional art independent PC client software must be developed on each type of OS which makes the development of the PC client software more difficult and wastes a lot of human resources and money. According to the embodiments of the present invention the Web framework is used to replace the PC client software and may be used in each operating system.

A data card and a method for Internet access of the data card provided by the embodiments of the present invention are described in detail above. Although the principle and implementation of the present invention are described with reference to exemplary embodiments the embodiments are only intended to help understand the method and core idea of the present invention. Meanwhile with respect to the implementation and application scope of the present invention modifications and variations may be made by persons of ordinary skill in the art according to the idea of the present invention. Therefore the specification shall not be construed as a limitation on the present invention.

