---

title: Method and system for wirelessly charge a diagnostic tool
abstract: An electrical charging system including a storing vessel for storing a diagnostic tool and a wireless charging system integrated with the storing vessel for wirelessly charging the diagnostic tool when the diagnostic tool is placed within the storing vessel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09553471&OS=09553471&RS=09553471
owner: Bosch Automotive Service Solutions Inc.
number: 09553471
owner_city: Warren
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present disclosure relates generally to a method and system for charging a battery. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a method and system for wirelessly charging a battery of a diagnostic tool.

In many industries diagnostic systems play an increasingly important role in manufacturing processes as well as in maintenance and repair throughout the lifetime of the equipment or product. Some diagnostic systems are based on personal computer technology and feature user friendly menu driven diagnostic applications. These systems assist technicians and professionals at all levels in performing system diagnostics.

With equipment and products becoming more advanced more complex and more expensive with the addition of electronic components the knowledge base and financial resources required to properly use maintain and fix these items have grown immensely. Different diagnostic systems are built with varying capabilities to perform various functions. For example some diagnostic systems may include a simple code reader while other diagnostic systems include complex computer architectures. Oftentimes diagnostic systems are powered by portable power source for standalone operation with wireless connection to the equipment s interface. The portable power source typically requires a wall adapter or a charger device with a physical connection to an electrical power source. Also the portable power source may require a long time to charge and thus render the diagnostic systems inoperable during charging.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide a method and system that efficiently charges a portable power source of a diagnostic system. Also it is desirable to provide a method and system that wirelessly charge the portable power source of a diagnostic system.

The foregoing needs are met to a great extent by the present invention wherein in one aspect an apparatus is provided that in some embodiments include a wireless charging system integrated with a storing vessel for charging a diagnostic tool.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure an electrical charging system may include a storing vessel for storing a diagnostic tool and a wireless charging system integrated with the storing vessel for wirelessly charging the diagnostic tool when the diagnostic tool is placed within the storing vessel.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure a wireless charging system may include a communication module that comprises a transceiver and communicates with a diagnostic tool. The wireless charging system may also include a power module that comprises a computer processor for receiving power signals from a power source and an output module that comprises a power circuitry for outputting a power signal to wirelessly charge the diagnostic tool.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the present disclosure a wireless charging system may include a communication module that comprises a transceiver for receiving information from a diagnostic tool wherein the information from the diagnostic tool comprises information of the diagnostic tool and diagnostic information stored by the diagnostic tool. The wireless charging system may also include a power module that comprises a computer processor for receiving power signals from a power source and an output module that comprises a power circuitry for outputting a power signal to wirelessly charge the diagnostic tool based at least in part on the information of the diagnostic tool.

There has thus been outlined rather broadly certain embodiments of the invention in order that the detailed description thereof herein may be better understood and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are of course additional embodiments of the invention that will be described below and which will form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto.

In this respect before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of embodiments in addition to those described and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein as well as the abstract are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception upon which this disclosure is based may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other structures methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the present invention. It is important therefore that the claims be regarded as including such equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

The invention will now be described with reference to the drawing figures in which like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout. An embodiment in accordance with the present invention provides a charging system that may wirelessly charge a portable power source of a diagnostic tool. The charging system may include a wireless power transmitter having a shape that conforms to a diagnostic tool. For example the wireless power transmitter may be integrally incorporated in a container carrying the diagnostic tool. In another example the wireless power transmitter may be integrally incorporated in a storage cabinet storing the diagnostic tool. In other examples the wireless power transmitter may be integrally incorporated in a tool box storing the diagnostic tool.

An embodiment of the present inventive system is illustrated in . In particular is a front view illustrating a diagnostic tool according to an embodiment of the invention. The diagnostic tool may be any computing device including a computer a personal computer a laptop a cellular communication device a workstation a mobile device a smart phone a television a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a thin system a fat system a network appliance a gaming console a wearable mounted device an Internet computing device a global positioning system GPS a range finder or other any other computing device. In some embodiments the diagnostic tools may be power tool security systems or the like. The power tool may include drills saws impact drivers compressors grinder sander joiner cutter wrench hammer blower rotary tools pneumatic tools measuring tools fluid electronic timers routers oscillating tools cleaner and the like. The diagnostic tool may include software in order to diagnose problems of the equipment under test. In another example the diagnostic tool may be the Genisys Touch diagnostic tool from Service Solutions a unit of Robert Bosch GmbH in Owatonna Minn. or Elite Autoscanner Pro CP9190 from Actron a unit of Service Solutions .

The diagnostic tool may include a housing to house the various components of the diagnostic tool such as a display a user interface a power key a memory card reader optional and a connector interface . The display can be any display for example a liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED organic light emitting diode OLED a video graphics array VGA a touch display which can also be a user interface etc. The user interface may allow the user to interact with the diagnostic tool in order to operate the diagnostic tool as desired. The user interface may include touch screen icons function keys arrow keys or any other type of keys that may manipulate the diagnostic tool in order to operate various menus that may be presented on the display . The user interface may also include a mouse or any other suitable input device including a keypad or a scanner. The user interface can also include numbers or alphanumeric. The power key may allow the user to turn the diagnostic tool on and off as required.

Memory card reader may be a single type card reader for a memory card such as a compact flash card floppy disc memory stick secure digital memory flash memory or other types of memory. The memory card reader may be a reader that reads more than one of the aforementioned memory such as a combination memory card reader. Additionally the memory card reader may also read any other computer readable medium such as CD DVD UMD etc.

The connector interface may allow the diagnostic tool to connect to an external device such as an ECU of a vehicle via a data link connector a sensor a computing device an external communication device such as a modem a network etc. through a wired or wireless connection. Connector interface may also include a USB FIREWIRE modem RS232 RS485 and other connections to communicate with external devices such as a hard drive USB drive CD player DVD player UMD player or other computer readable medium devices.

Selectable signal translator may communicate with the vehicle communication interface through the connector interface . Selectable signal translator may condition signals received from an ECU unit through the vehicle communication interface to a conditioned signal compatible with diagnostic tool . Selectable signal translator may communicate with for example the following communication protocols J1850 VPM and PWM ISO 9141 2 signal communication collision detection CCD e.g. Chrysler collision detection data communication links DCL serial communication interface SCI S F codes a solenoid drive J1708 RS232 Controller Area Network CAN Keyword 2000 ISO 14230 4 OBD II or other communication protocols that are implemented in a vehicle.

The circuitry to translate and send in a particular communication protocol can be selected by FPGA e.g. by tri stating unused transceivers or by providing a keying device that plugs into the connector interface that may be provided by diagnostic tool to communicatively connect diagnostic tool to vehicle communication interface . Selectable signal translator may be also coupled to FPGA and the card reader via the first system bus . FPGA may transmit to and receive signals i.e. messages from the ECU unit through selectable signal translator .

The FPGA may be coupled to the processor through various address data and control lines by the second system bus . The FPGA also may be coupled to the card reader through the first system bus . The processor may be also coupled to the display in order to output the desired information to the user. The processor may communicate with the CPLD through the second system bus . Additionally the processor may be programmed to receive input from the user through the user interface via the CPLD . The CPLD may provide logic for decoding various inputs from the user of diagnostic tool and glue logic for various other interfacing tasks.

Memory subsystem and internal non volatile memory NVM may be coupled to the second system bus which may allow for communication with the processor and FPGA . Memory subsystem can include an application dependent amount of dynamic random access memory DRAM a hard drive and or read only memory ROM . Software to run the diagnostic tool can be stored in the memory subsystem including any database. The database may include protocol data for interfacing with various wireless charging standards e.g. Qi standard . For example the database may include information about various charging protocols e.g. initialization termination conversion charging time and interfaces of various wireless charging standards. The database can also be stored on an external memory such as a compact flash card or other memories.

Internal non volatile memory can be an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash ROM or other similar memory. Internal non volatile memory can provide for example storage for boot code self diagnostics various drivers and space for FPGA images if desired. If less than all of the modules are implemented in FPGA internal non volatile memory can contain downloadable images so that FPGA can be reconfigured for a different group of communication protocols.

The charging interface and charging converter may be mounted in or on the housing or any combination thereof. The charging interface may be electronically coupled to the charging converter and may allow the charging converter to receive power and charge a power source of the diagnostic tool . The charging interface may provide a unified interface with various types of chargers. For example the charging interface may provide a unified interface with an inductive charger an optical charger a microwave charger and or an electrical charger. The charging interface may also provide a unified interface with various standards of wireless charging e.g. Qi or other standards . The charging interface may receive various power signals from different types of chargers. Various power signals may be in the form of an optical or electrical signal.

The charging converter may convert the various received power signals into a standard format for charging a power source of the diagnostic tool . For example the charging converter may convert an optical signal into an electrical signal to charge a power source of the diagnostic tool and vice versa. The charging converter may include a voltage converter e.g. a transformer that may convert the received power signal to a higher voltage potential or a lower voltage potential. The charging converter may be electronically coupled to the processor which may be coupled to memory subsystem non volatile memory N VM or a memory card in the card reader . The charging converter may provide the power signal to the power source of the diagnostic tool .

The altimeter may be used to determine the altitude of the diagnostic tool . The altimeter may be electronically coupled to the processor and can provide the altitude or elevation of the diagnostic tool . The altimeter may be coupled to a barometric pressure sensor not shown in order to calibrate the elevation measurements determined by the altimeter . The barometric pressure sensor can be positioned interior or exterior to the housing of the diagnostic tool . Minor atmospheric pressure changes can affect the accuracy of the altimeter thus diagnostic tool can correct for these changes by using the barometric pressure sensor in conjunction with the altimeter along with a correction factor.

Wireless communication circuit may communicate with the processor via second system bus . The wireless communication circuit may be configured to communicate to RF radio frequency satellites near field communication NFC cellular phones analog or digital Bluetooth Wi Fi Infrared Zigby Local Area Networks LAN WLAN Wireless Local Area Network or other wireless communication configurations and standards. The wireless communication circuit may allow the diagnostic tool to communicate with other devices wirelessly. The wireless communication circuit may include an antenna and transceiver built therein and being housed within the housing or can be externally located on the housing .

A diagnostic tool software may be installed to operate the diagnostic tool e.g. processor to perform the various diagnostic tests. Also the diagnostic tool program may be installed on a computer device of the user to operate the computer device to perform the various diagnostic tests. Different vehicle manufactures or even within the same manufacture may require the diagnostic tool to operate using different programs and communication protocols. The diagnostic tool may determine whether it is operating the correct software or program for a particular vehicle by comparing the vehicle type with the program currently running on the diagnostic tool . The vehicle type may be inputted into the diagnostic tool through the user interface in a manner such as for example scanning a bar coded VIN number located on the vehicle to be serviced reading a radio frequency identification RFID device or communicating with a wireless device of the vehicle. Also the vehicle type may be manually inputted into the diagnostic tool through the user interface in a manner such as manually enter the VIN number. From the vehicle information the diagnostic tool can then determine whether it is presently running the necessary program to service the vehicle.

The power cord may be coupled to an external power source e.g. an electrical outlet to supply power to the wireless charger . In another exemplary embodiment the power cord may supply an electrical power to the power source . The power source may be a portable power source that may enable continuous charging of the diagnostic tool when the power cord is not coupled to the external power source. The power source may be integrated into the case housing to store electrical energy. For example the power source may be configured to a shape similar to the case housing and embedded into the case housing . In an exemplary embodiment the power source may be at least one of a wet cell battery a dry cell battery a molten salt battery and a reserve battery.

The power cord may be coupled to an external power source e.g. an electrical outlet to supply power to the plurality of wireless chargers . In another exemplary embodiment the power cord may supply an electrical power to the power source . The power source may be a portable power source e.g. battery and supply power to the plurality of wireless chargers . The power source may be a portable power source that may enable continuous charging of the diagnostic tool when the power cord is not coupled to the external power source. The power source may be placed within the box housing to store electrical energy. For example the power source may be replaced with other power sources. In an exemplary embodiment the power source may be at least one of a wet cell battery a dry cell battery a molten salt battery and a reserve battery.

The power cord may be coupled to an external power source e.g. an electrical outlet to supply power to the plurality of wireless chargers . In another exemplary embodiment the power cord may supply an electrical power to the power source . The power source may be a portable power source e.g. battery and supply power to the plurality of wireless chargers . The power source may be a portable power source that may enable continuous charging of the diagnostic tool when the power cord is not coupled to the external power source. The power source may be placed within the cabinet housing to store electrical energy. For example the power source may be replaced with other power sources. In an exemplary embodiment the power source may be at least one of a wet cell battery a dry cell battery a molten salt battery and a reserve battery.

The power cord may be coupled to an external power source e.g. an electrical outlet to supply power to the plurality of wireless chargers . In another exemplary embodiment the power cord may supply an electrical power to the power source . The power source may be a portable power source e.g. battery and supply power to the plurality of wireless chargers . The power source may enable continuous charging of the diagnostic tool when the power cord is not coupled to the external power source. The power source may be placed on the cart level to store electrical energy. For example the power source may be replaced with other power sources. In an exemplary embodiment the power source may be at least one of a wet cell battery a dry cell battery a molten salt battery and a reserve battery.

The communication module may include transceivers and a computer processor to establish a communication with the diagnostic tool . The communication module may also include a display and an input device to provide an interface for a user of the wireless charging system . The communication module may include a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface GUI or an application programming interface API to transmit information between the wireless charging system and the diagnostic tool and a user. For example the communication module may include a separate or unified graphical user interface to communicate with the user of the wireless charging system . In another example the communication module may include an application programming interface API to communicate with the diagnostic tool . The communication module may be communicatively coupled to other modules of the wireless charging system . For example the communication module may receive information from the diagnostic tool and the user of the wireless charging system . In another example the communication module may communicate with a user for example via a smartphone to illustrate a charging of the diagnostic tool . The communication module may provide the received information to the processor module for processing or the database module for storing.

The communication module may include a transceiver to communicate with an external data source not shown via wireless or wired communication. For example the communication module may communicate with an external data source to receive information of various diagnostic tools . Also the communication module may receive updates of information of various diagnostic tools . The communication module may communicate with the diagnostic tool to receive information from the diagnostic tool . For example the communication module may receive diagnostic trouble codes DTC and other diagnostic information stored in the diagnostic tool . The communication module may provide the information received from the diagnostic tool to the external data source not shown and a remote computing device for further processing.

The power module may include a transformer circuitry a rectifier circuitry a computer processor and other circuitries that may couple the wireless charging system to a power source e.g. portable power source or an external power source . For example the power module may receive an alternating current AC power from an external power source e.g. AC outlet power source . The power module may convert the AC power into a power that may be used to wirelessly charge the diagnostic tool . In another example the power module may receive a direct current DC power from a portable power source e.g. battery . The power module may convert the DC power into a power that may be used to wirelessly charge the diagnostic tool .

The tool module may include a computer processor and a database to store information of various diagnostic tools . For example the tool module may store information of diagnostic tools that may be charged by the wireless charging system . The tool module may be customized by a user of the wireless charging system . For example the tool module may create a list of diagnostic tools used by the user. The information of the diagnostic tool may include but not limited to diagnostic tool type serial number manufacturer date of production or shipment previous charging records electrical specifications port connections electrical configuration layout diagnostic specification maintenance information serial number lot number warranty information a manufacture data code and the like.

The tool module may identify the diagnostic tool that is being charged by the wireless charging system . For example the tool module may receive information about the diagnostic tool from the communication module . The tool module may compare the information of the diagnostic tool with the information of the diagnostic tool stored therein in order to identify the diagnostic tool . In an exemplary embodiment the tool module may identify the electrical specification of the diagnostic tool and provide the electrical specification to other modules e.g. communication module processor module database module power module and output module of the wireless charging system .

The tool module may store information received from the diagnostic tool . For example the tool module may store diagnostic information received from the diagnostic tool via the communication module . The tool module may interpret the diagnostic information received from the diagnostic tool . In an exemplary embodiment the tool module may provide an interpretation for diagnostic trouble codes DTC received from the diagnostic tool . In another example the tool module may receive updates of information of the diagnostic tool . For example the tool module may receive updated specification of the various diagnostic tools . In an exemplary embodiment the tool module may receive updated electrical specification information of various diagnostic tools .

The output module may include a power circuitry and a computer processor to charge the diagnostic tool . For example the output module may receive information of the diagnostic tool from the tool module and output a power based at least in part on the information of the diagnostic tool . For example the output module may receive the electrical specification of the diagnostic tool from the tool module and output a power based at least in part on the electrical specification of the diagnostic tool .

The output module may output various power levels to charge different diagnostic tool . For example the output power level of the output module may be manually selected by a user of the wireless charging system . In another example the output power level of the output module may automatically select an output power level based at least in part on the information of the diagnostic tool e.g. electrical specification .

The many features and advantages of the invention are apparent from the detailed specification and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the invention which fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention. Further because numerous modifications and variations will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation illustrated and described and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention.

