---

title: Camshaft having adjustable cams that can be oiled by means of pressure oil
abstract: The invention relates to an adjustable camshaft for the valve gear of an internal combustion engine, comprising an outer shaft, on which at least one first cam is arranged and connected to the outer shaft in a rotationally fixed manner, and an inner shaft extending through the outer shaft, to which inner shaft at least one second cam is connected in a rotationally fixed manner, wherein the second cam connected to the inner shaft in a rotationally fixed manner has a cam hole and is rotatably supported on a seating point on the outer shaft. According to the invention, at least one oil groove is introduced at the seating point in the outer shaft and/or in the inner wall of the cam hole, into which oil groove oil is guided from a gap between the outer shaft and the inner shaft through at least one passage extending through the outer shaft.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09273571&OS=09273571&RS=09273571
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA TECCENTER AG
number: 09273571
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20130327
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Entry of International Patent Application Serial Number PCT EP2013 056464 filed Mar. 27 2013 which claims priority to German patent application no. 102012103581.4 filed Apr. 24 2012.

The present disclosure relates to an adjustable camshaft for the valve gear of an internal combustion engine.

DE 197 57 504 B4 describes an adjustable camshaft for the valve gear of an internal combustion engine with an outer shaft and an inner shaft which extends through the outer shaft. Cams are arranged on the outer shaft rotationally fixedly therewith and further cams are connected rotationally fixedly to the inner shaft. Oil is conducted into the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft via a central bore in the inner shaft and the oil passes into the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft via radially running openings from the central bore in the inner shaft.

DE 10 2005 014 680 A1 shows a further adjustable camshaft for the valve gear of an internal combustion engine with an outer shaft on which at least one first cam is arranged and connected rotationally fixedly thereto and with an inner shaft which extends through the outer shaft and to which at least one second cam is connected rotationally fixedly. In order to deliver oil for lubrication into the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft a supply channel is shown in the outer shaft for example located in a portion of the outer shaft into which the inner shaft does not extend. Thus oil can reach into the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft through a filter shown as an example wherein for example an oil injection nozzle may be used as an oil supply device.

By the introduction of oil into the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft reliable lubrication can be ensured between the inner shaft and the outer shaft but the bearing arrangement of the second cam connected to the inner shaft on the outside of the outer shaft may not be supplied with sufficient lubricating oil. This inadequate oiling state of the rotatable cam arranged on the outer shaft can result in increased wear in particular below the cam crown which can lead to premature failure of the camshaft. This can be remedied by hardening the surface of the outer shaft in order to prevent the abrasion of the surface wherein the hardening of the surface is however associated with great technical complexity and entails further costs.

The object of the present invention is therefore to provide an adjustable camshaft for the valve gear of an internal combustion engine with minimized wear in particular with the task of creating an improved oil supply of the bearing arrangement of the second cam connected to the inner shaft on the outside of the outer shaft.

Disclosed herein is an adjustable camshaft for the valve gear of an internal combustion engine with an outer shaft on which at least one first cam is arranged and connected rotationally fixedly thereto and with an inner shaft which extends through the outer shaft and to which at least one second cam is connected rotationally fixedly wherein the second cam connected rotationally fixedly to the inner shaft has a cam bore and is mounted rotatably at a seating point on the outer shaft.

Adjustable camshafts for the valve gear of internal combustion engines with cams which are adjustable in their phase position relative to each other allow the inlet valves and exhaust valves of the internal combustion engine to be controlled with different timings without the necessity for an inlet camshaft for the inlet valves and a separate exhaust camshaft for the exhaust valves. The coaxial shafts rotate about a common rotation axis in the cylinder head and can be adjusted to their relative phase positions via a control element. A gap is formed between the outside of the inner shaft and the inside of the tubular outer shaft and the camshaft is configured to conduct pressure oil into the gap for lubrication thereof.

The invention includes the technical teaching that at least one oil groove is made at the seating point on the outer shaft and or in the inner wall of the cam bore in which groove oil is conducted from a gap between the outer shaft and inner shaft through at least one passage extending through the outer shaft.

The invention advantageously uses the possibility of supplying the plain bearing of the cam on the outside of the outer shaft with oil from the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft. Since the oil in the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft is in principle conducted under pressure through the gap because of the positive pressure oil can enter the passage in the outer shaft in order finally to lubricate the arrangement of the second cam on the outer shaft which is formed as a plain bearing.

Due to the positive pressure through the passage in the outer shaft oil can enter the at least one oil groove which is arranged at the seating point in the outer shaft and or in the inner wall of the cam bore so that the oil which is conducted through the passage in the oil groove enters the lubrication gap between the outer shaft and the cam bore. Thus a lubrication arrangement is created as used in hydrostatic plain bearings and the oil conveyed with at least a slight positive pressure into the oil groove automatically enters the lubrication gap between the outer shaft and the cam bore.

The second cam can be connected to the inner shaft via a bolt which on rotation of the inner shaft also pivots in relation to the outer shaft. Consequently a bolt opening produced linearly at least in the circumferential direction is provided in the outer shaft and the passage for conduction of the oil from the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft on the at least one oil groove can be formed by the bolt opening itself. Additionally or alternatively a passage can be provided as a single bore which extends through the outer shaft and opens in the seating point for arrangement of the second cam. The single bore here extends radially through the outer shaft and the oil can travel from the gap between the inner shaft and outer shaft into the plain bearing of the second cam on the outside of the outer shaft.

The oil can be provided in the peripheral gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft as known from DE 197 57 540 B4 via an axial central bore and separate radial bores branching therefrom which may overlap with the radial passage designed as a single bore in the outer shaft. Furthermore there is a possibility that the bore in the inner shaft which holds the bolt has at least one bypass through which oil can reach from the axial central bore into the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft. If the oil is supplied through a central bore the bolt can also be designed as two pieces with a central interruption so that the bolt does not interrupt an axial oil flow through the central bore.

According to a further advantageous exemplary embodiment the oil groove made at the seating point in the outer shaft can be designed fluidically communicating with the passage wherein the passage in particular is the bolt opening for guidance of the bolt through the outer shaft. Thus the oil can reach the oil groove directly through the passage wherein the second cam can extend in width beyond the passage. For this the second cam can be designed as a collar cam with a cam collar and the cam collar extends as a portion of the cam body beyond the passage in the outer shaft and for example the bolt can be inserted in the cam collar between the inner shaft and the second cam. If now oil travels through the passage from the gap between the inner shaft and outer shaft said passage is again placed under oil pressure and the oil can still reach the oil groove which is conducted to the passage and is thus designed fluidically communicating therewith.

Further advantageously the oil groove can be formed as a widened part or widened region of the bolt opening. For example the bolt opening can have both a linear extension in the circumferential direction of the outer shaft and also a linear extension in the direction towards the rotation axis of the camshaft. Thus a degenerated oil groove is formed which is designed integrally with the correspondingly enlarged and for example approximately rectangular bolt opening.

The oil groove which may be made in the outside of the outer shaft or in the inner wall of the cam bore of the second cam can in its longitudinal extension run parallel to the rotation axis of the camshaft or the oil groove runs obliquely to the rotation axis. In particular the oil groove can be designed such that the sliding gap between the outer shaft and the cam bore in the cam is supplied with pressure oil not only at one position. For example an oil groove running in the circumferential direction can be made in the outer shaft and or in the cam bore. The groove running in the circumferential direction can for example communicate fluidically with at least one oil groove running linearly or obliquely to the rotation axis for example the oil groove can transform into the oil groove running in the circumferential direction. If a first oil groove is supplied with oil from the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft the oil first travels through the passage in the outer shaft into the first oil groove and from there into the further oil groove running in the circumferential direction. Evidently the oil groove in the sense of the invention can also be formed directly by the oil groove running in the circumferential direction which is then supplied with oil directly from the passage in the outer shaft without the interposition of at least one first groove running linearly or transversely to the rotation axis.

The oil can be pressed into the gap between the outer shaft and inner shaft under pressure in particular the pressure oil can flow along the longitudinal direction of the rotation axis or the oil can be conducted into the gap from a central bore in the inner shaft and via at least one radial channel in the inner shaft. For example the oil supply to the gap can be designed as in DE 197 57 504 B4.

The second cam can have a cam collar into which the oil groove can extend at least partly. The cam collar may form a cylindrical extension to a side face of the second cam so that due to the greater width the contact surface is enlarged to form the plain bearing between the outer shaft and the cam bore. The bolt for connecting the second cam to the inner shaft can preferably be introduced into the cam collar so that also the bolt opening in the outer shaft is preferably arranged in relation to the seating point in the portion of the cam bore which is formed by the cam collar. Consequently the oil groove can extend in particular into the cam collar so that the oil from the bolt opening passes into the oil groove which extends at least from the region of the cam collar into the region of the cam bore which lies below the actual cam. Particularly advantageously the oil groove can be made at the position in the cam bore which lies below the cam crown since an oil supply is particularly necessary at this position to lubricate the sliding gap. Also several oil grooves can be provided at the seating point of the outer shaft and or in the cam bore for example a bolt for connection of the second cam to the inner shaft may extend through two bolt openings lying opposite each other in the outer shaft and oil can enter the respectively assigned oil groove through each bolt opening.

First cams are arranged on the outer shaft of which a first cam is shown as an example. For example an exhaust valve of the internal combustion engine may be controlled by the first cam . Furthermore second cams are arranged on the outer shaft of which one second cam is shown as an example. The first cam is connected rotationally fixedly to the outer shaft for example by being pressed onto the outer shaft or by being connected to the outer shaft by a material joining process. The second cam is connected rotationally fixedly to the inner shaft and when the inner shaft is turned in its phase position in relation to the outer shaft at the same time the second cam is turned in relation to the first cam . The adjustable camshaft can rotate about its rotation axis wherein the angular position of the outer shaft can be adjusted in relation to the angular position of the inner shaft . If the first cam for example cooperates with an exhaust valve and the second cam for example with an inlet valve the timing of the inlet valve can be changed in relation to the timing of the exhaust valve by changing the angular position of the second cam in relation to the first cam . A bearing ring is also shown which is arranged firmly seated on the outside of the outer shaft .

In order to connect the second cam rotationally fixedly to the inner shaft bolt is used which extends through the inner shaft transversely to the rotation axis . The bolt is connected at its end to the second cam . The bolt extends through bolt openings which each form passages in the outer shaft . The bolt openings are formed linearly in the circumferential direction of the outer shaft so that the bolt can pivot in the linear bolt openings when the inner shaft is adjusted in its phase position in relation to the outer shaft about rotation axis . For this the second cam is mounted on a plain bearing on the outer shaft and thus pivots with the inner shaft sliding on the outer shaft.

According to the exemplary embodiment shown the outer shaft is designed with passages which are formed as separate passages and which lie in the region of the outer shaft on which the second cam is held rotatably. Through the passages the pressure oil can pass from the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft and enter the oil grooves which are made in the outer shaft at the seating point of the second cam . This creates a hydrostatic lubrication effect of the plain bearing gap of the second cam on the outside of the outer shaft . Then the pressure oil can emerge laterally from the sliding gap of the second cam and the outer shaft . The pressure oil introduced into the bearing gap of the second cam and the outer shaft minimizes the wear on the seating point at which the second cam is arranged on the outer shaft . In particular due to the periodic pressure loading of the cam by contact of the cam crown with a take off element an increased wear occurs which can be minimized by the improved lubrication.

The second cam is designed with a cam collar in which the bolt is inserted. The oil groove protrudes at least with one portion over the bolt opening so that the pressure oil can pass from the gap via the bolt opening into the oil groove made in the cam bore . The exemplary embodiment furthermore shows an oil groove which is made circumferentially in the cam bore as shown in more detail in . If pressure oil passes via the groove into the oil groove the plain bearing between the outer shaft and the cam bore can be supplied evenly with oil over the full periphery.

To further improve the oiling of the sliding gap between the outside of the outer shaft and the cam bore for example structuring can be provided in the cam bore for example by bombardment with glass beads or other particles or by laser structuring to form a reservoir for the oil conducted below the cam . The structuring here can have a prism like or cap like shape. The oil groove may be open towards the face of the cam or may end therein but it is preferred if the oil groove is closed with the advantage that it is more difficult for the oil to flow out of the groove . The same applies to the oil grooves running along the outer shaft .

The invention is not restricted in its embodiments to the exemplary embodiments described above as preferable. Rather a number of variants are conceivable which in principle use the solution presented even in fundamentally different designs. All features and or advantages arising from the claims description or drawings including constructional details or spatial arrangements may be essential to the invention both alone and in any varying combination. For example the circumferential oil grooves and shown in and can be combined with designs of the oil groove and or as shown as examples in .

