---

title: Systems and methods for location-based device security
abstract: A device may collect environmental information surrounding the device. Based on the collected environmental information, the device may automatically identify a potentially secured location that has lower security risk. When a potentially secured location is identified, the device may prompt the user to setup a security profile having reduced security requirement for the secured location. The device may store and associate the security profile with the secured location. The device may activate the security profile with reduced security requirement when the device is in the secured area. Further, the security profile may require that certain features of the device be disabled when the device is in the secured location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09160729&OS=09160729&RS=09160729
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09160729
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130820
---
The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for implementing location based security for devices.

With the proliferation of internet commerce online security has become a main concern for many internet users. Conventional user login name and password may no longer be adequate to provide security. Many online services now require additional security features such as security questions additional pass phrases images and etc. Further additional security also is being added to computers and mobile devices because users increasingly utilize these devices to conduct online business transactions. The need for additional security results in stricter authentication requirement when accessing the online services or devices used for the online services. For example a user may be required to enter multiple passwords or passphrases to be granted access to a device or an online service. As such it becomes increasingly tedious for a user to gain access to a device or an online service. Therefore there is a need for a system or method that allows a user to easily gain access to a device or an online service when the user is in a secured location in which excess security requirement are not needed.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

According to an embodiment when a device enters an environment with lower security risk the device may prompt a user to designate the environment to be a secured location. For example the secured location may be frequented locations such as home or work. If the user designates the environment as a secured location the device may associate a security profile having reduced security requirement with the secured location. For example the reduced security requirement may require less or no passwords during access authentication for the device. The device may activate the security profile with reduced security requirement when the device is in the secured area.

According to one embodiment the security profile may require that certain features of the device be disabled when the device is in the secured location. For example texting features of a mobile phone may be disabled when the mobile phone is in a moving vehicle. Thus the moving vehicle may be a secured location in which no texting messages are received or transmitted by the mobile phone.

System may include a user device and a service provider server in communication over a network . Service provider server may be maintained by an online service provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. A user such as a sender or consumer utilizes user device to conduct business using service provider server . For example a user may utilize user device to initiate a payment transaction receive a transaction approval request or reply to the request. Note that transaction as used herein refers to any suitable action performed using the user device including payments transfer of information display of information etc.

User device and service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet such as a user account for setting up a gift list and or merchant sites for viewing and purchasing gifts. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications.

Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate transfer information make payments and otherwise utilize a smart wallet through the payment provider as discussed above. User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

User device may include applications for collecting environmental data such as geo location data via Global Positioning System GPS temperature data altitude data humidity data data regarding device movement ambient sound data imaging data via a camera and etc. Further geo fencing technology may be used to set up boundaries to define a location. User device may detect signals from devices that implement geo fencing technology. These environmental data may be utilized to determine a location or environment in which user device is located.

Service provider server may be maintained for example by an online service provider which may provide online service to user . In this regard service provider server includes one or more service applications which may be configured to interact with user device over network to facilitate the services and communicate display information at user device . For example service provider server may provide services such as payment transaction banking retail shopping and etc.

Service provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with users. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Account information may also include security profiles for users or user devices.

Security applications which may be part of service application or separate may be configured to receive security information from a user device for processing and storage in a service database . Security applications may include one or more applications to process and manage security information from user and. As such security applications may store details of security profiles from users or user devices associated secured locations and etc. Service application may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary such as the set up and management user accounts.

At step user device may determine whether user device is in a potentially secured location using the detected environmental data. In one embodiment user device may send the detected environmental data to service provider server . Service provider server may receive the environmental data from user device and may determine whether user device is in a potentially secured location based on the environmental data. A familiar location at which user device had previously been accessed multiple times such as at home or at work may be a potentially secured location. For example user device may detect a wireless or wired network at home or at work and may determine that user device had been accessed multiple times before in the area of the wireless or wired network based on the historical environmental data. Thus user device may determine that location of home or work where the same wireless or wired network is detected may be a potentially secured location. The user may also designate a home or work address as a secured location such that the service provider determines whether the location of the user device is within the user designated location.

In one embodiment a potentially secured location may be determined based on the proximity of other devices. For example user device may detect signals such as an NFC signal or a Bluetooth emitted from a user s other peripheral devices such as a watch a printer a laptop a tablet computer glasses other wearable devices etc. Based on historical environmental data user device may determine that user device had been accessed multiple times before in the proximity of these peripheral devices. Thus user device may determine that the proximity of these peripheral devices constitute a potentially secured location. In an embodiment security requirement for accessing user device may decrease with the increase in the number of the user s other devices that are in proximity of user device .

In an embodiment an administrator of a corporate server may designate particular secured locations for user device . For example geographical locations of company buildings and the employee s resident may be designated as secure locations. Based on the geographical location detected by a GPS sensor user device may allow access with reduced security requirement at these designated secured locations. Further other locations such as hotel locations of a participating hotel chain may be designated by a company as secured locations. Thus user device may allow access with reduced security requirement at the hotel locations of the participating hotel chain when company employees stay at these hotels for business travel.

In an embodiment public places such as a movie theater hospital court house airplane place of worship or the like may have a beacon device that broadcasts a signal such as a WiFi or Bluetooth signal that signifies a certain security profile for the public place. For example a beacon device at a movie theater may broadcast a signal for a security profile that restricts phone calls for mobile devices or that turns phone rings to vibrate. Thus the beacon device may signify a secured location at this public place. User device may detect the beacon signal and may determine that user device is in a potentially secured location.

User device also may use environmental data collected by various sensors such as movement sound ambient light temperature and etc. to determine a potentially secured location. For example if user device detects that user device is moving at a high speed such as greater than 150 miles per hour mph user device may determine that user device is in an airplane during takeoff and may determine that user device should be changed to an airplane mode associated with a security profile that restricts phone calls or texting. User device may suggest to the user to switch user device to the airplane mode.

After a potentially secured location is determined by user device or by service provider server at step a notification may be generated to notify the user that a potentially secured location is detected at step . The notification may include a description of the environmental condition used to qualify the potentially secured location. For example the notification may indicate that two other peripheral devices belonging to the same user are in the proximity of user device as an environmental condition that qualifies for a potentially secured location.

At step a request to designate the location as a secured location may be generated and displayed to the user. For example a potentially secured location may be a merchant store where user device had been used multiple times to make purchase. A notification may inform the user that multiple purchases had been made using user device at the merchant location and whether the user would like to designate the merchant location as a secured location such that reduced security requirement may be used for the next purchase.

In another example user device may detect a beacon signal signifying a movie theater mode when user device enters a movie theater. A notification may be generated and displayed at user device to inform the user that user device appears to be in a movie theater and request whether the user would like to use the movie theater mode for user device to restrict phone calls switch to vibrate only mode or turn off phone rings.

At step user device may receive a user response and determine whether to set up a security profile for the potentially secured location based on the user response. If the user response indicates that no security profile should be set up for the potentially secured location at step user device may continue to search for potentially secured locations at step . For example the process may return to step to continue collecting environmental data. User device may continue to monitor and analyze environmental data to identify other potential secured locations. This process allows the system or user device to continuously learn the user s environment activities or habits and suggest appropriate potentially secured locations to the user.

In an embodiment if a potentially secured location is not designated as a secured location for the first time the potentially secured location may be stored or flagged such that no notification or request to set up security profile is generated the next time user device is enters the same potentially secured location. Thus after the user refuses to designate a certain potentially secured location for the first time the user is not notified again when user device enters the certain potentially secured area in the future.

If the user response indicates that a security profile should be set up for the potentially secured location at step user device may receive user input for setting up the security profile at step . Various security options such as reduced passcode automatic access without authentication restricted phone use or etc. may be presented for user s selection. For example a company building may be a secured location for a company issued laptop. The user of the company issued laptop may set up a security profile for the company building such that the company issued laptop is automatically connected to the company s VPN network without authorization process e.g. no password or ID input. In another example the user may set up the security profile such that texting or phone calls are restricted in a moving vehicle.

In still another example a location of a coffee shop between 7 00 AM to 9 00 AM on a week day may be designated as a secured location and time because the user visits the coffee shop every week day morning to purchase a cup of coffee. The user may set up a security profile for this location and time such that payment transactions using user device at the coffee shop between 7 00 AM and 9 00 AM on a week day require no authentication.

At step user device may store the designated secured location and time with the security profile set up by the user. In one embodiment service provider server may store and associate the designated secured location with the security profile. Thus when user device visits the designated secured location in the future an appropriate security profile may automatically be activated for the user s convenience. For example at a frequently visited merchant the user may have reduced authentication requirement e.g. partial passcode for making a purchase using user device .

By using the above process potentially secured locations may automatically be identified and suggested to a user. The user is allowed to designate a secured location and set up a security profile for the secured location. Thus appropriate security requirement or restrictions may be implemented for user device based on the time and location of user device .

At step user device or service provider server may determine whether user device is in a designated secured location. For example profiles of designated secured locations may be stored in user device or service provider server . Each profile of designated secured location may include environmental conditions that identify the designated secured location such as proximity of other devices geographical location detection of certain signals and etc.

When current environmental condition matches that of a designated secured location user device or service provider server may determine that user device is in the designated secured location at step . At step user device may activate the security profile associated with the designated secured location. For example when a home wireless network is detected which is an environmental condition for a designated secured location a security profile associated with the designated secured location may be activated. The security profile for home may be to have automatic full access to all sensitive and private data without authentication. Thus a user may skip the tedious authentication process when using user device at home.

In an embodiment service provider server may activate the security profile associated with the designated secured location for services rendered to user device . For example when a user attempts to access a user account at service provider server service provider server may receive from user device environmental data detected at user device and the identification information for the user account. Service provider server may determine based on the received environmental data and the designated secured location associated with the user account whether user device is in a secured location designated by the user. If so service provider may activate the security profile associated with the designated secured location for user device . Service provider server then may generate an authentication request with reduced authentication requirement based on the activated security profile. For example service provider server may generate an authentication request prompting for the user to enter partial password e.g. the first three letters of the password instead of the full password. Service provider server may receive the user s response to the authentication request and determine whether the partial password matches the password stored with the user account at service provider server . Thus the reduced authentication requirement may reduce the user s input required to access the service provider server .

When service provider server is a payment service provider and is used to make a purchase via user device at a non secured location service provider server may generate an authentication request prompting the user to enter full user ID and password. Further server provider server may conduct regular fraud analysis for the payment transaction. On the other hand when the purchase is made at a designated secured location service provider server may generate an authentication request requiring less or no password. Further service provider server may conduct a lighter fraud analysis for the payment transaction taking place in a designated secured area.

Examples of reduced authentication requirement may include automatic access to online services or to a Virtual Private Network VPN . In another example the user ID and password for authentication may automatically be entered for the user in a designated secured location.

If the detected environmental condition does not match any of the environmental conditions associated with the designated security locations at step user device may use a default security profile at step . For example when user device is at a new geographical location user device may use the default security profile that requires regular authentication process to access user device or other online services offered at service provider server via user device .

In an embodiment when user device detected that user device is in a new location in which user device has never visited user device may use a security profile with elevated security. For example when a user travels to a new state or country and wishes to conduct banking business using service provider sever via user device user device may detect that user device is visiting a new location and service provider server may use a security profile with elevated security requirement such as additional security questions during user login for the user s banking account.

By using the above processes potentially secured locations may be identified and notified to the user. The user may be allowed to designate secured locations and set up security profiles for the designated secured locations. The security profiles may be activated automatically when a device enters the designated secured locations. Security and other settings may be adjusted based on the location and environment the device is in. Thus appropriate security settings may automatically be used for the device to improve user experience.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

