---

title: Context sensitive backlight
abstract: Systems and methods for controlling the lighted display of a mobile device are disclosed. The backlight of or active power supplied to a display is reduced or deactivated after a certain period based on the application running on the mobile device, rather than being a uniform deactivation time. The system and method can be used on a variety of mobile devices having a display screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338269&OS=09338269&RS=09338269
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09338269
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130614
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 044 323 filed on Mar. 7 2008 entitled Context Sensitive Backlight the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This document describes systems and techniques for modifying the backlight intensity of an electronic device and more particularly for hand held electronic devices such as electronic assistants cell phones and hybrid devices.

As the number and usefulness of electronic devices particularly hand held electronic devices has increased the power consumption battery life of these devices has become an important aspect. Users having more applications and computing power available are using the devices for longer periods of time and for a wider variety of uses. This has led to increased demand for longer periods of active operability before power failure or longer periods between battery recharging.

One facet of the operability period is the extent to which the device is in active mode as opposed to standby mode. For example a simple cell phone may be in active mode only when the keys are being pressed a call is being made or an incoming call is received while the remainder of the time the simple phone may be in standby mode.

However with increased functionality and applications a user may use a more complex electronic device such as a hand held device or advanced cell phone for a number of purposes. The more complex electronic devices may be used as a camera to access weather or traffic reports for telephone calls to access the internet to send and receive text messages to check email to play games and for a variety of other possible uses. These uses all generally require that the electronic device be in active mode and such increased use can shorten the effective period of operability before a battery recharge is required.

One of the major power consumption features of an electronic device is the display. Electronic devices such as a hand held device or cell phone may have a display that lights up or brightens typically by a backlight or similar feature when the device is in active mode. In order to save power it is helpful to have the device only in active mode when it is actually in use by the user and in standby mode including a darkened display when not in use. Current devices such as cell phones typically use a single delay time to put the device in standby mode following the last key press or the termination of a call. With an increasing variety of applications accessible on electronic devices such a simple approach can lead to errors and user aggravation. For example a web page may be called up on the device and the user may be reviewing the information. A set delay measure from the time since the last key press might darken the screen while the user is still in the middle of reviewing the information.

Systems and techniques are described here for controlling the reduction or deactivation of a backlight in an electronic device based on the current application operating on the device. Small electronic devices that include displays such as an electronic assistant a mobile phone or other types of hand held portable devices can be used in a variety of locations with various lighting conditions. In order for the display on the electronic device to be easily read the device can include backlighting that can allow for increased illumination of the display resulting in improved legibility. Many of these portable electronic devices can include a rechargeable battery as their power source which can limit the period of active operability of the device between battery charges.

In one implementation a computer implemented method for context sensitive lighting control of a display is describe that includes identifying an active application on a computing device determining an expiration time that varies based on characteristics of the active application confirming that no change in activity occurs while the expiration time period is passing and reducing the lighting of a display upon the occurrence of the expiration time.

In certain aspects the method may further include classifying the active application and wherein the expiration time is calculated based on the application classification. Determining an expiration time may further include determining a position of movement of the device and determining the expiration time on the position of movement in addition to the characteristics of the active application. Determining an expiration time may include associating the application with a class of applications and obtaining an expiration time for the class of application.

In some aspects reducing the lighting of a display may include extinguishing the backlighting of the display or may include reducing the power provided to an active powered display. Confirming that no change in activity occurs while the expiration time period is passing may include confirming the lack of user input received by the device. The display may be the display of a hand held electronic device.

In other aspects the method may further include determining a keypad expiration time that varies based on characteristics of the active application confirming that no change in activity occurs while the keypad expiration time period is passing and reducing the lighting of a keypad upon the occurrence of the keypad expiration time. The method may also include overriding the reduction of the keypad expiration time such that the lighting of the keypad is not reduced upon passage of the keypad expiration time and such override is based upon additional information concerning a specific instance of the running application. The specific instance of a running application may include a connection or connection attempt to a specified phone number.

In another implementation a computer implemented system is described that includes a display having a fully lighted mode and a less than fully lighted mode an input interface to monitor the receipt of input to a device a response generator to obtain an expiration time based on the active application of a device wherein the expiration time varies based on the application and a processor to measure the passage of time and confirm a lack of additional inputs during passage of the expiration time and to instruct the display to change from fully lighted mode to less than fully lighted mode upon the passage of the expiration time. The system may further include a keypad having a fully lighted mode and a less than fully lighted mode and wherein the processor also instructs the keypad to change from fully lighted mode to less than fully lighted mode upon the passage of a certain time.

In certain aspects the input interface may receive information including the type of input received. The fully lighted mode may include the backlight being on and the less than fully lighted mode may include the backlight being off or the fully lighted mode may include the backlight being fully powered and the less than fully lighted mode may include the backlight being less than fully powered.

In another implementation a computer implemented method for context sensitive backlight deactivation is described that includes deactivating the backlight of a mobile display after a time delay that is based on the application running on the mobile device. The time delay may be calculated based on the type of application running. The time delay may include input from the user of the mobile device. The application running on the mobile device may include the active application displayed on the device display.

In another implementation a computer implemented method for context sensitive lighting control of a display is described that includes identifying an active application on a computing device determining an expiration time that varies based on characteristics of the active application confirming that no change in activity occurs while the expiration time period is passing reducing the lighting of a display upon the occurrence of the expiration time period continuing to monitor for user input for an additional period of time and determining a new expiration time period if user input is received during the additional period of time wherein the new expiration time period is based on the time period until user input was received following termination of the expiration time.

In certain aspects determining the new expiration time period may include adding a calculated value to the expiration time period to determine the new expiration time period. The calculated value may be based on an exponential function including the time period until user input was received following termination of the expiration time period.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Portable electronic devices can include electronic assistants mobile phones or any other type of portable handheld devices. In one aspect a user can hold or view the device and enter input via a keyboard and or pointing device to command the device to perform a desired function. Generally such devices can perform various functions including but not limited to making and receiving phone calls web searching web browsing gaming accessing online mapping services managing a contacts list and managing electronic mail. An example of a mobile device that can perform these and many other functions will be described in more detail with respect to .

In all cases where backlighting is discussed or described such discussion also includes other comparable and equivalent displays. For example rather than a backlight the display may be an active matrix display wherein the brightness of a display is controlled by the amount of power supplied to the screen such that there is an active brighter screen state as well as a less active reduced brightness state.

The use of backlighting can contribute to the amount of power drained from the device s battery. Therefore it may be desirable to limit the amount of time the display is backlit. The backlighting may be reduced or turned off in response to device instructions. When the backlighting is reduced it may be reduced in stages or entirely at once. There may be two levels of backlighting on off three levels off medium intensity full intensity higher multiple levels or may feature a continuous semi continuous level control dimmer like .

The display may be backlit to improve visibility of the display and to enable the user to have a better experience with the device and to be able to use the device in low light conditions etc. Backlighting of the display can be limited to occasions when the user needs to view the display in order to operate the device or view information provided by the device. At other times backlighting can be reduced or inactive conserving battery power. Therefore it can be beneficial for the electronic device to determine whether or not to activate display backlighting and the amount of time the backlighting remains active by determining the current mode of operation of the device.

The keypad may be backlit to improve visibility of the keys and to enable the user to have a better experience with the device and to be able to use the device in low light conditions etc. Backlighting of the keypad may be limited to occasions when the keypad is being used but may be reduced or inactive to conserve battery power at other times. Therefore it can be beneficial for the electronic device to determine whether or not to activate keypad backlighting and the amount of time the keypad backlighting remains active by determining the current mode of operation of the device.

The backlighting for the display and keypad may be independently controlled. Therefore at times the system may determine that the display backlight should remain active while the keypad backlight is reduced or inactive. As an example when an address is entered the device may determine that the display backlight should remain active for a longer period of time than the keypad backlight as the user will be following the map for direction but not have further need of entering key strokes.

In operating modes in which the device is executing an application that may require constant and or frequent use of the display the display backlighting can remain active until the application is no longer running on the device or until a expiration time passes. Basing the active time of the display or keypad backlighting on the operating mode or active application of the electronic device may help insure that the user will have ample time to view the contents of the display without the need to manually e.g. a key press reactivate the display backlighting. However by also incorporating an expiration time the backlighting will not remain active for a prolonged period of time resulting in significant battery power consumption.

A user can initiate an application on a mobile device to perform a desired function. For example a phone application can be initiated and run that can allow the user to make phone calls using the mobile device. It can be beneficial if the display screen and keypad of the mobile device can be easily viewed by the user in order for them to initiate and run the application. Also it may be desirable for the user to view the display screen while the application is performing the selected function. However viewing the keypad throughout the time period of performing the selected function may not be as important. However the amount of time the user may need to view the display screen can vary widely dependent upon the function being performed. For example the display screen can be viewable while a user is entering a phone number when making a phone call but need not be viewable while they are talking on the phone.

Furthermore the time that a keypad may remain backlit may vary within the type of function being performed or application running.

In another example the display screen can be viewable during the time needed to access and view an online map as well as a period of time after the map is displayed in order for the user to identify a route to follow or to check their desired destination. As uses and needs are different the amount of time needed for a user to utilize one application can be less than that for a different application.

The display screen backlighting can be controlled to better enable active backlighting while the user needs to view the display screen and reduced inactive at times when this is no longer necessary. As described however this period of time can be different dependent upon the function being performed by the mobile device. Therefore a mobile device that can control the activation and deactivation of the backlighting of a display screen can conserve battery power while allowing the user the ability to view their display screen for a desirable period of time for the mobile device function being performed.

In another aspect the backlighting of either the display or keypad may be modified based on the response of the user. For example once the device has determined that the backlighting should be reduced or turned off the device continues to monitor for the next keypad keypress. If this happens more rapidly than a determined time period for the current function application the system will determine that the time delay was insufficient. This approach allows the device to determine that turning off or reducing the backlighting likely interrupted or distracted the user and therefore the delay should be increased to reflect that the user appears to be actively using the device. Therefore the system will increase the delay. In one approach the device will increase the delay time based on the speed of the user response such as by using an exponential function to determine the desired increase.

As an example if the mobile device is currently in a text messaging application and has determined an expiration delay time for the keypad and display backlighting. After the delay time passes since the last input or text message received the device will reduce the backlighting. The device will continue to monitor the keypad for an additional time. This additional time may be a set period for any application such as for example 10 seconds may vary based on the application such as for example 5 seconds for a phone application 10 seconds for a text messaging application or may be based on the determined expiration delay time such as for example 50 of the delay time or equal to the delay time . If the user presses a key during this additional monitoring period the system will restore the backlighting and also further determine that the expiration delay time previously used was insufficient and incorrect. The expiration delay time will then be recomputed based on the additional information of how long the user took to respond or press an additional key.

In one approach the increase in expiration time will vary based on the actual time that the user required for the additional keypress. Thus in one calculation the faster that the user responded following the backlighting reduction the closer the recalculated time will match the actual user required time. For example if the user responded 1 second after the backlighting was reduced the recomputed delay time will be increased nearly 1 second over the prior delay time. However if the user responded 10 seconds after the backlighting was reduced the user is likely less active may be an erroneous press etc. and so the recomputed delay time will be increased by less than 10 seconds and perhaps significantly less than 10 seconds. In one approach the increase in delay time will be based on an exponential calculation that includes the actual time that the user required for an additional keypress and the range of the additional time monitored.

In another approach the recalculated time will be increased for longer periods of time when there is a faster response time by the user. For example if the user responds immediately following reduction of the backlighting the device will determine that the user is very active and increase the backlight expiration time by a large amount such as for example a 50 or 100 time period increase while if the user responds more slowly such as near the end of the monitoring time the device will determine that the user is not very active and will increase the expiration time only a small amount such as for example by 5 . In one approach the time period increase is based on an exponential function of the time period that the user allowed to pass. The function may also include the previous calculated expiration delay time or the default expiration delay time for the application currently running on the device.

As another example some phone calls may require no additional keypad use once the phone number has been entered and the call connect button pressed on the phone. However other types of phone calls may require additional use of the keypad e.g. when calling an automated phone system when calling for stock quotes or game scores etc. . Therefore in one aspect the mobile device may determine that a phone call to a certain number may require additional keypad use. The device may determine this by receiving a signal from the system associated with the phone number called or the device may retain information in memory that is associated with prior phone numbers dialed. For example when additional key presses are used during a call to a specified phone number the device may store that information and when that specified number is called in the future the device may keep the keypad backlit during the call rather than reducing the backlight. Alternatively the device may only reduce the keypad backlight during the call to that number rather than turning the backlighting off.

As shown in the backlight activation time for a mobile device can vary dependent upon the application running on the mobile device. In some implementations the activation time can be different for each mobile device function. In other implementations the backlight activation time for a mobile device can be different for different groups of applications e.g. applications that involve web access . Similarly the keypad backlight activation time may vary based on the application running on the mobile device. Variously the display and keypad backlights can be controlled together such as when the device only has a single backlight or separately.

In some implementations the backlight activation time can be learned by the mobile device by monitoring the amount of time a user may spend running a particular application and using an average value for the backlight activation time. For example a user may spend on average a certain period of time reading or writing a text message using a text application after opening a text message. The mobile device can learn this by monitoring the use of a text messaging application by a user during a fixed amount of time e.g. two weeks and using the average amount of time as the amount of time to keep the backlight activated. In other implementations the user can manually program the amount of time for the device to remain with an active backlight depending on the application. In other implementations times can have a default setting for each of various applications. For example the backlight activation time may also be based in part on user data acquired from other users of the application on mobile devices. For example a service provider can provide backlight expiration times for applications available on the mobile device based upon past data of mobile device usage gathered from a multitude of mobile devices.

As another example phone numbers what require additional keypresses during a call may be learned by the system such that the keypad is maintained with the backlight on or alternatively with a higher degree of backlighting than other numbers called.

As another example the backlight activation timed can be modified based on individual user performance. As described earlier the keypad may be monitored for a period of time after the backlighting has been reduced or turned off. If the user responds within this period by a keypress etc. the device can learn that a longer backlight expiration time should be used for that application. The changed expiration time may be maintained for that application session only or the expiration time for that application may be changed for all future uses of that application.

The backlighting of the display screen can vary dependent upon user interaction with the mobile device. For example a user may pick up the mobile device after it has not been used for a prolonged period of time. The display screen may be dimmed the backlighting is inactive and the user may wish to brighten the display for improved visibility. In some implementations the user can press a key on a keyboard or keypad to activate the backlighting on the display for easier viewing. In implementations where the mobile device is a flip phone for example the user may flip open the phone which can automatically activate the backlighting. In other implementations the mobile device may include various detectors and sensors for detecting a change in the mobile device usage e.g. the device is moved the device is picked up by the user and activating the backlighting responsive to this change. In another implementation the mobile device may have just completed an activity and the user immediately initiates another one. In this case the display screen may not be dimmed between activities as the mobile device may not be inactive for a long enough period of time between applications.

The device may also include keypad backlighting that may be activated in a similar fashion to the activation of the display backlighting. The keypad backlighting may be reduced or turned off in a similar fashion to the backlighting reduction of the display as discussed in the specific examples below or it may be controlled separately from the display backlighting. The keypad backlighting time may vary based on the application running on the device.

With reference to the user can select phone application icon to activate the phone application on the mobile device . The phone application icon on the mobile device can be selected using a pointing device and or keyboard to point to and select the icon. Once the phone application is activated the phone application icon can be highlighted to indicate it is active. Screen can then be shown on display screen including box and enlarged phone application icon . The user can use a pointing device and or keyboard to enter commands and data to operate and control the phone application. As is shown on screen the user can be presented with an area on the screen where a phone number can be entered.

Upon selection and activation of the phone application the mobile device can determine how long to keep the backlighting of display screen active. The time can be based on a typical user placing a phone call on a mobile device. Factors to consider can include but are not limited to the amount of time it takes for a user to enter the phone number and the amount of time a user may view the display to see if the call is completed. The time may also be based on the typical time a user may desire to confirm the correct number was called after the last key was pressed or on other considerations. The mobile device can keep the backlighting active for the determined amount of time and then it can deactivate the backlighting. This may help conserve battery power while decreasing errors and user frustration.

Screen is an example of what may be shown on display screen once a call is in progress. Screen can be displayed for the duration of the call. In some implementations screen may be displayed for a period of time with backlighting activated and after an expiration time passes backlighting can be deactivated for the duration of the call the display screen is dimmed as shown by screen .

In some implementations once the call has been terminated the user and or the called party terminate the call or are disconnected the mobile device aware of this event can choose to reactivate the display backlighting. This can allow a user increased display legibility to select and activate another mobile device application. In some implementations the reactivation of the backlighting on call termination can be a user selectable parameter in a mobile device configuration file. In other implementations the mobile device may choose to always reactivate the backlighting upon call termination. In other implementations the mobile device may choose not to reactivate the backlighting.

With reference to the user can select search application icon to activate the search application on the mobile device . The search application icon on the mobile device can be selected and the search application activated in a similar manner as described in . The search application icon can then be highlighted e.g. use of box and enlarged phone application icon indicating it is active as shown in .

Screen can be shown on display screen upon activation of the search application. The user can then use a pointing device and or keyboard to enter commands and data to operate and control the search application. As is shown on screen the user is presented with an area on the screen where they can enter a search query e.g. New York Times in search box and activate a corresponding search initiating control . Another screen not shown can be displayed to the user showing one or more results that are responsive to the search query. The user can select a desired result from a list of web page URLs e.g. www.nytimes.com and the corresponding web page can be displayed e.g. screen . The user can then read and examine the web page.

Upon selection and activation of the search application the mobile device can determine how long to keep the backlighting of the display screen active. In one approach the determined time can be based on a typical user entering a search query selecting a desired web page URL and viewing the resulting web page. In another approach the determined time can be measured from the last key press of the user or from the time that the web page information is downloaded onto the device. Therefore possible factors to consider can include but are not limited to the amount of time it takes for a user to enter a search string query the amount of time to complete the search and display the results the amount of time it takes the user to select a URL from the results list the amount of time it takes to retrieve and display the corresponding web page and the amount of time a user may take to review the web page. The mobile device can keep the backlighting active for the determined amount of time and then reduce deactivate the backlighting. The backlighting may be deactivated at a point in time when the user will no longer need to view the display e.g. they have completed the review of the web page . This approach may help conserve battery power while decreasing errors and user frustration.

Screen is an example of a web page that can be shown on display screen once a user has selected a result from a search query. Screen can be displayed to the user for a period of time. Therefore the backlighting for display screen can be activated for a period of time to allow the user to read and review the screen and then can be deactivated the display screen can be dimmed as shown by screen .

With reference to the user can select contacts application icon to activate the contacts application on the mobile device . The contacts application icon on the mobile device can be selected and the contacts application activated in a similar manner as described in . The contacts application icon can then be highlighted e.g. use of box and enlarged contacts application icon indicating it is active as shown in .

In some implementation screens not shown in may be used to allow a user to search through their contacts list and select an individual contact to send a text message to. Screen shows a name and phone number of a selected contact in contact box in an area included on the screen . The user can then elect to send the contact a text message. For example a user may activate a drop down menu via a drop down menu key included on a keyboard of the mobile device. The drop down menu can include a selection to send a text message to the contact. Selecting the text message option can result in screen being shown on display screen .

The user can enter a text message e.g. message using the mobile device keyboard for example. Upon completion of text entry the user can elect to send the text message. For example the user may again activate a drop down menu and select a send message option. In another example the user may activate the drop down menu and elect to store the message as a draft or delete the message.

Upon selection and activation of the contacts application the mobile device can determine how long to keep the backlighting of the display screen active. The amount of time the backlighting for display screen can be activated for a text messaging application can be based on the time it takes a typical user to enter a standard length text message. The mobile device can keep the backlighting active for this amount of time and then it can deactivate the backlighting. The backlighting may be deactivated at a point in time when the user will no longer need to view the display e.g. they have entered and sent the text message .

With reference to the user can select mapping application icon to activate the mapping application on the mobile device . The mapping application icon on the mobile device can be selected and the mapping application activated in a similar manner as described in . The mapping application icon can then be highlighted e.g. use of box and enlarged mapping application icon indicating it is active as shown in .

Screen can be shown on display screen upon activation of the mapping application. The user can use the pointing device and or keyboard to enter commands and data to operate and control the mapping application. As shown on screen the user can be presented with an area on the screen where they can enter an address e.g. 479 Commonwealth Ave Boston Mass. in search box and activate a corresponding search initiating control . Screen is an example of a map that can be shown as a result of the search. In some implementations intermediate screens may be shown on display screen that can include multiple similar address location results for a user to select from prior to receiving the resulting map.

Upon selection and activation of the mapping application the mobile device can determine how long to keep the display backlighting active. This time can be based on a typical user entering an address and viewing the resulting map. Factors to consider can include but are not limited to the amount of time it takes a user to enter an address the amount of time to complete the search and display the map and the amount of time a user may take to review the map. The mobile device can keep display backlighting active for this amount of time and then in order to conserve battery power it can reduce deactivate the backlighting. The backlighting may be deactivated at a point in time when the user no longer needs to view the display e.g. they have completed the review of the map .

Screen can be displayed to the user for a period of time. Therefore the backlighting for display screen can be activated for a period of time to allow the user to read and review the screen and then can be deactivated displaying screen .

With reference to the user can select web browser application icon to activate the web browser application on the mobile device . The web browser application icon on the mobile device can be selected and the web browser application can be activated in a similar manner as described in . The web browser application icon can then be highlighted e.g. use of box and enlarged web browser application icon indicating it is active as shown in .

Screen can be shown on display screen upon activation of the web browser application. The user can then use a pointing device and or keyboard to enter commands and data to operate and control the web browser application. As shown on screen the user can be presented with an area on the screen where they can enter a URL e.g. www.miniclip.com in address box and activate a corresponding initiating control that upon activation will display the web page on a screen not shown . The user can navigate the web page and select a link on the web page that can result in the displaying of another web page as shown in screen e.g. selecting of the link to the bloxorz puzzle on the miniclip web page . The user can then play the puzzle game.

Upon selection and activation of the web browser application the mobile device can determine how long to keep the backlighting of the display screen active. The time can be based on a typical user entering a URL and viewing the resulting web page. Factors to consider can include but are not limited to the amount of time it takes for a user to enter a URL the amount of time it takes to retrieve and display the corresponding web page and the amount of time a user may take to review the web page.

In the implementation of backlighting for the display screen can remain active. The mobile device can keep the backlighting active for this amount of time and then the backlighting can be deactivated. The backlighting may be deactivated at a point in time when the user will no longer need to view the display e.g. they are done playing their game .

Screen is an example of a screen that can be shown on display screen while a user is playing an online game. Other screens can be displayed as the user progresses through the game. The backlighting for display screen can be activated for a period of time to allow the user to play the game for a reasonable amount of time and then can be deactivated the display screen can be dimmed as shown by screen to conserve battery power.

With reference to the user can select email application icon to activate the email application on the mobile device . The email application icon on the mobile device can be selected and the email application activated in a similar manner as described in . The email application icon can then be highlighted e.g. use of box and enlarged email application icon indicating it is active as shown in .

Screen can be shown on display screen upon activation of the email application. The user can use a pointing device and or keyboard to enter commands and data to operate and control the email application. As shown on screen the user can be presented with an area where they can activate inbox control contacts control all mail control or compose control . In some implementations the user may be presented with additional controls for the email application. For example in the implementation of the user can activate the inbox control resulting in screen that can be displayed on display screen of the mobile device .

Upon selection and activation of the email application the mobile device can determine how long to keep the backlighting of the display screen active. The amount of time can be based on how a typical user utilizes their email application. Possible email application uses can include but are not limited to reading email composing email and managing email contacts. The mobile device can keep backlighting active for an amount of time that can be considered typical for the use of the email application and then in order to conserve battery power it can deactivate the backlighting. The backlighting may be deactivated at a point in time when the user will no longer need to view the display e.g. they are done checking their email .

Screen is an example of an email message that can be shown on display screen if the user has activated the inbox control . The backlighting for display screen can be activated for a period of time to allow the user to read and review the screen and then can be deactivated the display screen can be dimmed as shown by screen to conserve battery power.

A backlight expiration time is then computed using the application identified application running on the mobile device as a factor. Thus the amount of time that the backlight stays fully activated is determined at least in part based on the identity of the application running on the mobile device. For example referring to a calculated backlight expiration time may be longer for an email application than a calculated backlight expiration time for a phone application.

In some implementations the computed backlight expiration time can be based on additional factors as well as on the active application running on the device. For example the computed backlight expiration time may also be based in part on user data acquired from other users of the application on mobile devices. For example a service provider can provide backlight expiration times for applications available on the mobile device based upon past data of mobile device usage gathered from a multitude of mobile devices. As another example the computed backlight expiration time may also be based on preferences identified by the user such as information entered regarding specific applications e.g. longer backlight expiration time preference for a text entry application or a general preference e.g. shorter backlight expiration times to conserve battery power . The expiration time may also be based on a position of the device e.g. vertical versus horizontal with horizontal having a shorter expiration time under the assumption that the user has put the device down on a surface as determined for example by an accelerometer switch and or other mechanism in the device. Also movement of the device such as determined by an accelerometer in the device may indicate that the device is more likely to be in use and thus will result in a lengthening of the expiration time. Also movement of the device geographically rather than in terms of shaking may be relevant as measured by a GPS feature to indicate that the device is in motion and perhaps less likely to be in use e.g. because the user is busy walking or driving . In addition a light sensor such as one provided with a telephone camera may be used to determine the ultimate need for backlighting so that a backlight can run longer at night than it does in the day. Similarly a clock on a device may be used to infer that the device is in the dark and thus lengthen the expiration time or the daytime light and thus shorten expiration time .

In some implementations the backlight expiration time can be stored in a database on the mobile device and accessed when the application is activated. In other implementations the backlight expiration time can be stored in a database at a service provider and provided to the mobile device when a connection is made between the service provider and mobile device. This can allow for frequent updates of backlight expiration times which can be beneficial when applications are updated and or added to the mobile device.

The process checks if the backlight expiration time has expired at step . If the backlight expiration time has expired the device backlight is reduced at step . In some implementations reducing the backlight may include turning off the backlight completely. In other implementations reducing the backlight may include reducing the backlight output by 33 50 75 or some other percentage.

Until the backlight expiration time has expired the process checks whether there has been a change in mobile device activity . If no change in activity has occurred the process returns to checking if the backlight expiration time has expired . If there has been a change in device activity before the backlight expiration time has expired the process continues by determining the mobile device activity and identifying the application running on the mobile device . A change in activity includes activity within the active application such as dialing another phone number sending or receiving a text message entering a new webpage address scrolling on a currently displayed webpage address etc. and also includes activation of a different application.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements the context sensitive backlight control is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to determine the activity on the mobile device identify a running application activate the display backlight compute a backlight expiration time and wait until the time has expired to deactivate the display backlighting.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device includes an external antenna it is anticipated that the device can instead or additionally include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user. The display may include a backlight feature. The keyboard may include a backlight feature for example the keypad area may light up the keys may be lighted or the surface of the keys may be lighted in some fashion such as light outlining the number or letter on top of a key .

The display displays video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator such as signal strength bars that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by the device via the antenna a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for backlight control of a display. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backwards navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 3000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with a QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a WiFi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example an IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera or other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 3 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU is one of a number of computer processors including microprocessors microcontrollers and other types of integrated circuit controller chips. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing module to store application dependent backlight activation expiration times in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that determine the activity on the mobile device identify a running application activate the display backlight compute a backlight expiration time check application status and wait until the time has expired to deactivate the display backlighting.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for backlight control using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera via the camera interface a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 5 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joing Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library Libc a LibWebCorelibrary a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime which generally makes up a Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and backlight control application .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

The persistent core system services such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager are hosted by system processes although application processes such processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent. The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBC processes associated with the Libc library and backlight control processes associated with the backlight control application .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and Libc processes associated with the Libc library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LibWebCore library and Libc processes associated with the Libc library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and Libc processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

