---

title: Social cloud application-mediated mobile data hotspot sharing
abstract: A method is provided in one example embodiment and includes receiving a message that offers use of a first mobile device as a mobile hotspot for enabling access to a local network; generating a Service Set Identification (“SSID”) and a password for the mobile hotspot; and providing the SSID and the password to the first mobile device. The method further includes receiving a request from a second mobile device to access the local network using the mobile hotspot; and providing the SSID and the password to the second mobile device via a second mobile device in accordance with rules that govern access to the local network via the mobile hotspot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09215005&OS=09215005&RS=09215005
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09215005
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131126
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of communication networks and more particularly to social cloud application mediated mobile data hotspot sharing.

 Tethering can include any process of using a mobile device such as a smart phone or an Internet tablet as a modem for another Wi Fi capable device e.g. a laptop computer a mobile device etc. . Tethering enables sharing of the Internet connection of the mobile device with Wi Fi capable devices and can be performed using a wireless LAN or Wi Fi connection a Bluetooth connection or a physical connection such as USB. Virtually all 3G and 4G Android and iOS mobile devices support tethering via Wi Fi Bluetooth and or USB. For example a laptop computer without a 3G or 4G network interface could access the Internet by connecting to a Wi Fi hotspot advertised by a nearby iPhone.

Given recent Federal Communications Commission FCC action to force certain carriers to eliminate tethering surcharges for 4 HG connectivity it would be reasonable to expect an increase in smartphone Wi Fi tethering or mobile hotspots. Unfortunately configuring a smartphone as a Wi Fi hotspot is functionally equivalent to configuring a structural wireless access point. Specifically the mobile device must be configured with a Service Set Identification SSID to broadcast and a password for authentication of devices desiring to connect to the hotspot. Devices desiring to connect to a hotspot must treat the hotspot like a conventional Wi Fi network and select the correct SSID and enter the correct password. This degree of configuration may well be beyond the capacity of many users to complete securely.

A method is provided in one example embodiment and includes receiving a message that offers use of a first mobile device as a mobile hotspot for enabling access to a local network generating an SSID and a password for the mobile hotspot and providing the SSID and the password to the first mobile device. The method further includes receiving a request from a second mobile device to access the local network using the mobile hotspot and providing the SSID and the password to the second mobile device via a second mobile device in accordance with rules established that govern access to the local network via the mobile hotspot.

In one embodiment the rules specify a relationship between mobile devices attempting to access the local network using the mobile hotspot. The local network may be a Wi Fi network. The method may further include one or more of accessing a social graph of the first mobile device to determine whether to provide the password to the second mobile device soliciting payment from the second mobile device prior to providing the password notifying the first mobile device that the second mobile device has connected to the mobile hotspot. In certain embodiments the method is implemented using a cloud based service. Additionally the request may be received via a cellular data connection and the password may be rendered invalid after a predetermined time period.

Turning now to the FIGURES illustrates a mobile communications cloud computing system in which embodiments described herein may be advantageously implemented. As shown in computing system enables a variety of mobile devices represented in by mobile devices A C to access cloud computing services which may be any number of different services including but not limited to social networking services email services document hosting services data backup services banking and financial services and the like via a mobile network that connects mobile devices A C to Internet . Mobile network includes an access network which may comprise a variety of access points such as satellites access points and BTSes for connecting mobile devices A C to a core network for providing mobile network services to devices A C.

Continuing to refer to it will be assumed for the sake of example that device A has been configured to function as a mobile hotspot and that a Wi Fi capable device is able to access the internet via the hotspot provided by device A. As previously noted device A may be manually configured by an owner thereof to function as a hotspot. In accordance with features of embodiments described herein a sharing service is implemented as a cloud service accessible via an application installed on the mobile device A for facilitating mobile hotspot sharing via mobile device A. In one embodiment sharing service is integrated into and or has access to a social networking service through a communication channel of which the owner of device A is a member and in connection with which he or she has a social graph . In one embodiment communication channel may be implemented using Representational State Transfer REST . As commonly used and as used herein the phrase social graph is a graph that depicts personal relationships of members of social networking service . In one embodiment social networking service may be Facebook which makes its social graph available to other services such as sharing service via a Facebook Open Graph Application Programming Interface API which is part of the Facebook Platform. Facebook Platform is a software environment that enables third party developers to create their own applications and services that access data such as social graph data in Facebook. The platform includes a set of programming interfaces and tools that enable developers to integrate with the open graph of personal relations.

Embodiments described herein utilize a centralized web or cloud sharing service for brokering mobile device to mobile hotspot connections. In some embodiments the sharing service may be integrated into social networking applications such as Facebook to facilitate the sharing of one user s mobile data connection with one or more other users through a simple non technical GUI operation via Facebook or other social networking applications. An aspect of embodiments described herein is that a user may specify rules governing with whom he or she is willing to share the mobile hotspot. Configuration of rules may be performed via a social networking application and rules may include 1 share mobile hotspot with specific friends 2 share mobile hotspot with all direct friends 3 share mobile hotspot with friends of friends and 4 share mobile hotspot with a designated group e.g. anyone who is a member of a robot club .

As described in detail below certain embodiments facilitate on demand sharing of Internet access through mobile hotspots advertised by mobile devices. This approach can reduce the complexity of establishing a connection between two devices on the fly and provides a mechanism for advertising hot spots associated with the sharing service. Embodiments described herein are not dependent on infrastructure access points or routers though the basic capabilities could be extended to infrastructure access points like home routers. In the most basic case the device granting mobile hotspot access is a smart mobile device not an infrastructure Wi Fi access point AP . Specifically no infrastructure AP is required. Additionally embodiments described herein do not rely on social networking applications such as Facebook merely for authentication rather the embodiments leverage a social network graph of the owner of the smart mobile device providing the hotspot hotspot provider to control access to the hotspot. In effect the hotspot provider s social network becomes an Access Control List ACL for the hotspot. Beyond that certain embodiments also seek to reduce the complexity of the interaction of the hotspot provider and consumer to the point at which a secure hotspot connection can be created with easy to use cloud based tools in contrast to requiring the hotspot provider to open the settings panel of his her device and configure a Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP or Wi Fi Protected Access WPA password which must then be provided to the hotspot consumer for manual entry on their access device.

Using certain embodiments a peer to peer hotspot connection could be established without the hotspot provider and hotspot consumer even communicating with one another. This is in direct contrast to at least one application that creates one large flat Peer to Peer P2P Wi Fi network among smart devices and permits anyone who is a member to potentially consume Wi Fi on any other member s device. Moreover it will be recognized that the hotspot SSIDs and WPA passwords are dynamic and ephemeral in nature. In certain embodiments SSIDs exposed by a hotspot provider s device are generated by the sharing service in accordance with a set of rules that may permit a different device to determine whether a hotspot it can see may belong to the socially shared hotspot collection. The WPA password is also generated by the sharing service and can be cryptographically difficult certainly when compared to passwords that human users typically create. In certain embodiments when the hotspot provider s device disconnects from the hotspot community which may be embodied in the cloud service the SSID is discarded. The SSID could be created with a geo location element that would allow the service to return a very precise Regular Expression RegEx filter for SSIDs to users looking for a hotspot.

The following discussion references various embodiments. However it should be understood that the disclosure is not limited to specifically described embodiments. Instead any combination of the following features and elements whether related to different embodiments or not is contemplated to implement and practice the disclosure. Furthermore although embodiments may achieve advantages over other possible solutions and or over the prior art whether or not a particular advantage is achieved by a given embodiment is not limiting of the disclosure. Thus the following aspects features embodiments and advantages are merely illustrative and are not considered elements or limitations of the appended claims except where explicitly recited in a claim s . Likewise reference to the disclosure shall not be construed as a generalization of any subject matter disclosed herein and shall not be considered to be an element or limitation of the appended claims except where explicitly recited in a claim s .

As will be appreciated aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more non transitory computer readable medium s having computer readable program code encoded thereon.

Any combination of one or more non transitory computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Aspects of the present disclosure are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in a different order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In step the sharing service provides the mobile device with a coded SSID for identifying and advertising the mobile hotspot to other Wi Fi capable devices. The sharing service further provides the mobile device with a WEP or WPA password to secure the network. In step the user may specify particular rules with respect to who is permitted to connect to the mobile hotspot on the user s mobile device. In accordance with certain embodiments the sharing service may access the social networking service and specifically the social graph of the user associated therewith to allow the user to designate with whom he or she is willing to share the hotspot. For example the user may indicate a willingness to share the hotspot 1 with specific friends e.g. selected from a list of friends in the user s social graph 2 with all direct friends of the user 3 with all friends of friends of the user and or 4 with a specific group of users of the social networking service.

It should be recognized that these are merely examples and that there may be any number of different ways in which to designate users who are authorized to access the mobile hotspot. The user may also designate other terms such as payment terms and time limitations in connection with access to the hotspot. Additionally and or alternatively the user may designate a type of mobile device e.g. smart phone only tablet only etc. that may connect to the network via the mobile hotspot. In step the mobile device advertises the hotspot using the service provided SSID or other identifier and secures access to the hotspot using the service provided WEP or WPA password. At this point the hotspot is available for use by other Wi Fi capable devices to access the Internet so long as the user of those other Wi Fi capable devices possesses the WEP WPA password as will be described below.

At step for example the application connects to the sharing service via the cellular data connection e.g. 3G or 4G of the user s device to enable the device to scan for SSIDs that conform to the encoded SSID format of the sharing service. In one embodiment step may include the client device s querying the sharing service via the client s cellular data connection to obtain a RegEx filter for SSIDs. In step upon discovery of one or more conforming SSIDs responsive to the scanning in step the application on the hotspot consumer s device may query the sharing service with the user s social networking user name and the discovered SSID s . This query may be performed over a cellular carrier based Internet connection for users seeking to avoid reaching their bandwidth limit or through SMS for users without any Internet connectivity at that time.

In step in accordance with features of embodiments described herein the sharing service broker s hotspot access based on the rules specified by the hotspot provider for sharing Internet connectivity. Access may be based on payment to the hotspot provider a relationship with the hotspot provider e.g. as defined in the hotspot provider s social graph or some combination of the two. For example if the hotspot provider is the same person as the hotspot consumer in which case the hotspot provider is merely using one device to provide Internet access for another of his her devices no payment would be required rather the system would merely grant the second device access to the Internet via the first device. In another example assuming the hotspot provider has indicated that access will be granted only to direct friends of the hotspot provider if the hotspot consumer is a direct friend of the hotspot provider execution will proceed to step described below. Alternatively using the same case in which the hotspot provider has limited hotspot access to direct friends if the hotspot consumer is merely a friend of a friend the hotspot consumer will be denied access and execution terminates in step .

In step the sharing service provides WEP or WPA credentials as applicable to the hotspot consumer for enabling the consumer to connect to the hotspot. In optional step the sharing service may notify the hotspot provider of the hotspot consumer s connection to the hotspot. In some embodiments this step also includes prompting the hotspot provider to confirm that access should be granted before actually granting the hotspot consumer access to the hotspot in other embodiments the hotspot provider may simply be informed of the connection. In still other embodiments no notification is provided and the hotspot provider is not informed that a connection has been made. In optional step in the event that a billing relationship is required billing could be mediated through a payment system of the social networking site through PayPal or through another payment service including one integrated with the sharing service .

It will be assumed for the sake of example that at a time substantially contemporaneously with steps in step a user USER9 contacts the sharing service e.g. via an application installed on his Wi Fi enabled device to request a hotspot connection. In step the sharing service returns a RegEx for coded SSIDs. In step the device sees the SSID EPHEMERAL1  and requests connection to the mobile hotspot identified by that SSID through the sharing service. In step the sharing service determines that USER0 is not a friend of USER1 and is therefore not permitted to connect to the hotspot. In step the sharing service denies the device permission to connect to the hotspot.

In an alternative embodiment the sharing service may prevent the display of USER1 s device to USER9 such that USER9 has no opportunity to attempt to access the mobile hotspot provided by USER1 s device. In another alternative embodiment the actual SSIDs associated with mobile hotspots are not displayed to user s attempting to connect to a mobile hotspot via the sharing service rather some other form of identification e.g. longitude and latitude of the location of the provider s device a relationship designation or some other descriptor is provided for each available connection. In yet another alternative embodiment in steps the user seeking a mobile hotspot connection may indicate to the sharing service via the application executing on the user s device that he she would only like to connect to a hotspot meeting certain criteria such as friend friend of a friend or free. In yet another alternative embodiment the password returned by the sharing service in step is specific to a MAC address of the user s device such that only that device may access the hotspot using the password provided. In still another alternative embodiment the password may have a TTL value associated therewith such that the password is valid for only a designated amount of time.

In terms of the infrastructure that may be included in mobile communications cloud computing system in one particular instance the architecture would be applicable to any communication environments such as a simple wide area network WAN deployment cable scenarios broadband generally fixed wireless instances and fiber to the x FTTx which is a generic term for any broadband network architecture that uses optical fiber in last mile architectures. Mobile communications cloud computing system may include a configuration capable of transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP communications for the transmission and or reception of packets in a network. Mobile communications cloud computing system may also operate in conjunction with a user datagram protocol IP UDP IP or any other suitable protocol where appropriate and based on particular needs. Moreover the networks discussed herein represent a series of points or nodes of interconnected communication paths for receiving and transmitting packets of information that propagate through mobile communications cloud computing system . The network offers a communicative interface between sources and or hosts and may be any LAN wireless local area network WLAN metropolitan area network MAN Intranet Extranet WAN virtual private network VPN or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates communications in a network environment using network elements.

Mobile devices A C can be associated with clients customers or end users wishing to initiate a communication in mobile communications cloud computing system via some network. The term mobile device is synonymous with apparatus and can be inclusive of any devices used to initiate a communication such as a receiver a computer a set top box a smart television an Internet radio device IRD a cell phone a telephone a router a switch a residential gateway RG a fixed mobile convergence product a laptop a home networking adaptor an internet access gateway a smartphone e.g. a Google Droid an iPhone a tablet e.g. an iPad a personal digital assistant PDA or any other device component element or object capable of initiating voice audio video media or data exchanges within communication system . Mobile devices A C may also be inclusive of a suitable interface to the human user such as a display a keyboard a touchpad a remote control or other terminal equipment. Mobile devices A C may also be any device that seeks to initiate a communication on behalf of another entity or element such as a program a database or any other component device element or object capable of initiating an exchange within mobile communications cloud computing system . In addition mobile devices A C may be any devices that a service provider may deploy within the service provider s own network premises. Data as used herein in this document refers to any type of numeric voice video media or script data or any type of source or object code or any other suitable information in any appropriate format that may be communicated from one point to another.

Wi Fi sharing service and social networking service are network elements that can facilitate the network communication activities discussed herein. As used herein in this Specification the term network element is meant to encompass servers routers switches cable boxes gateways bridges loadbalancers cellular access concentrators WiMAX access concentrators firewalls inline service nodes proxies processors modules or any other suitable device component element proprietary appliance or object operable to exchange information in a network environment. These network elements may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms communication protocols and interfaces that allow for the effective exchange of data or information.

In one implementation mobile devices A C and or Wi Fi sharing service and or social networking service include software to achieve or to foster the network communication activities discussed herein. This could include for example the implementation of instances of a hotspot sharing module where these modules interact perform reciprocating functions and or suitably coordinate their activities with peers. Additionally each of these elements can have an internal structure e.g. a processor a memory element etc. to facilitate some of the operations described herein. In other embodiments these network communication activities may be executed externally to these elements or included in some other network element to achieve the intended functionality. Alternatively mobile devices A C and or Wi Fi sharing service and or social networking service may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate with other network elements in order to achieve the network communication activities described herein. In still other embodiments one or several devices may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations discussed herein with respect to hotspot sharing activities.

Note that in certain example implementations the mobile hotspot sharing activities outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media e.g. embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances a memory element embodied in any of the mobile or Wi Fi capable devices or nodes of the networks shown in can store data used for the operations described herein.

This includes the memory element being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example the processor embodied in any of the mobile or Wi Fi capable devices or nodes of the networks shown in could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

In one example implementation at least one of mobile devices A C including Wi Fi enabled devices and Wi Fi sharing service include software in order to achieve the mobile hotspot sharing functionality outlined herein. The mobile devices and computer device s on which the sharing service is implemented can include memory elements for storing information to be used in achieving the mobile hotspot sharing functionality outlined herein. Additionally each of these devices may include a processor that can execute software or an algorithm to perform the mobile hotspot sharing activities as discussed in this Specification. These devices may further keep information in any suitable memory element random access memory RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM ASIC etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. Each of the network elements can also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment.

Note that with the example provided above as well as numerous other examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of two three or four network elements. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that system and its teachings are readily scalable and can accommodate a large number of components as well as more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of system as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures.

It is also important to note that the steps in the preceding flow diagrams illustrate only some of the possible signaling scenarios and patterns that may be executed by or within system . Some of these steps may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition a number of these operations have been described as being executed concurrently with or in parallel to one or more additional operations. However the timing of these operations may be altered considerably. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

In a separate endeavor portions of system can generally be configured or arranged to represent the LTE architecture the 3G architecture applicable to UMTS environments or any suitable networking system or arrangement that provides a communicative platform for system . In other examples could readily include an SGSN a gateway GPRS support node GGSN any type of network access server network node etc. Moreover the present disclosure is equally applicable to other cellular and or wireless technology including CDMA Wi Fi WiMax etc.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

