---

title: Combined vestibular and cochlear implant and method
abstract: Apparatus and method for triggering nerve-action potentials (NAPs) in each of a plurality of cochlear neurons in a cochlea of a person and in each one of a plurality of vestibular neurons in a vestibular organ of the person in order to provide auditory and balance sensations for the person, the method including generating a first plurality of light signals that stimulate a NAP in the selected cochlear neuron; delivering the first plurality of light signals to the selected cochlear neuron from within the cochlea; generating a second plurality of light signals that stimulate a NAP in the selected vestibular neuron; delivering the second plurality of light signals to the selected vestibular neuron from within the vestibular organ; and selectively controlling the first and second plurality of light signals to optically stimulate the selected cochlear and vestibular neuron in order to trigger NAPs of the selected cochlear and vestibular neuron.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843217&OS=08843217&RS=08843217
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08843217
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130913
---
U.S. Pat. No. 7 736 382 issued Jun. 15 2010 to James S. Webb et al. titled APPARATUS FOR OPTICAL STIMULATION OF NERVES AND OTHER ANIMAL TISSUE 

U.S. Pat. No. 7 883 536 issued Feb. 8 2011 to Mark P. Bendett et al. titled HYBRID OPTICAL ELECTRICAL PROBES 

U.S. Pat. No. 7 988 688 issued Aug. 2 2011 to James S. Webb et al. titled MINIATURE APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR OPTICAL STIMULATION OF NERVES AND OTHER ANIMAL TISSUE 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 948 912 filed Nov. 30 2007 by James S. Webb et al. titled APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CHARACTERIZING OPTICAL SOURCES USED WITH HUMAN AND ANIMAL TISSUES 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 536 642 filed Sep. 28 2006 by Mark P. Bendett et al. titled APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR STIMULATION OF NERVES AND AUTOMATED CONTROL OF SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS 

U.S. Pat. No. 8 012 189 issued Sep. 6 2011 to James S. Webb et al. titled VESTIBULAR IMPLANT USING OPTICAL STIMULATION OF NERVES 

U.S. Pat. No. 8 317 848 issued Nov. 27 2012 to James S. Webb et al. titled VESTIBULAR IMPLANT AND METHOD FOR OPTICAL STIMULATION OF NERVES 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 671 379 filed Nov. 27 2012 by James S. Webb et al. titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR OPTICAL STIMULATION OF VESTIBULAR NERVES which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 551 150 on Oct. 8 2013 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 191 301 filed Aug. 13 2008 by Mark P. Bendett et al. titled VCSEL ARRAY STIMULATOR APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR LIGHT STIMULATION OF BODILY TISSUES which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 475 506 on Jul. 2 2013 

U.S. Pat. No. 8 160 696 issued Apr. 17 2012 to Mark P. Bendett et al. titled NERVE STIMULATOR AND METHOD USING SIMULTANEOUS ELECTRICAL AND OPTICAL SIGNALS 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 013 816 filed Jan. 26 2011 by Jonathon D. Wells et al. titled NERVE STIMULATOR AND METHOD USING SIMULTANEOUS ELECTRICAL AND OPTICAL SIGNALS which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 498 699 on Jul. 30 2013 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 693 427 filed Jan. 25 2010 by Daniel J. Lee et al. titled OPTICAL STIMULATION OF THE BRAINSTEM AND OR MIDBRAIN INCLUDING AUDITORY AREAS which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 744 570 on Jun. 3 2014 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 890 602 filed Sep. 24 2010 by Jonathon D. Wells et al. titled LASER BASED NERVE STIMULATORS FOR E.G. HEARING RESTORATION IN COCHLEAR PROSTHESES which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 792 978 on Jul. 29 2014 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 117 121 filed May 26 2011 by Jonathon D. Wells et al. titled IMPLANTABLE INFRARED NERVE STIMULATION DEVICES FOR PERIPHERAL AND CRANIAL NERVE INTERFACES 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 117 122 filed May 26 2011 by Jonathon D. Wells et al. titled CUFF APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR OPTICAL AND OR ELECTRICAL NERVE STIMULATION OF PERIPHERAL NERVES which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 652 187 on Feb. 18 2014 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 117 125 filed May 26 2011 by Jonathon D. Wells et al. titled NERVE PENETRATING APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR OPTICAL AND OR ELECTRICAL NERVE STIMULATION OF PERIPHERAL NERVES 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 117 118 filed May 26 2011 by Jonathon D. Wells et al. titled OPTICAL BUNDLE APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR OPTICAL AND OR ELECTRICAL NERVE STIMULATION OF PERIPHERAL NERVES 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 349 810 filed May 28 2010 by Jonathon D. Wells et al. titled Implantable Infrared Nerve Stimulation Devices for Peripheral and Cranial Nerve Interfaces 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 386 461 filed Sep. 24 2010 by Jonathon D. Wells et al. titled Implantable Infrared Nerve Stimulation Devices for Peripheral and Cranial Nerve Interfaces 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 511 020 filed Jul. 22 2011 by Ryan C. Stafford titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR OPTIMIZING AN OPTICALLY STIMULATING COCHLEAR IMPLANT 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 511 048 filed Jul. 23 2011 by Ryan C. Stafford titled BROAD WAVELENGTH PROFILE TO HOMOGENIZE THE ABSORPTION PROFILE IN OPTICAL STIMULATION OF THE COCHLEA 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 511 050 filed Jul. 23 2011 by Ryan C. Stafford et al. titled OPTICAL COCHLEAR IMPLANT WITH ELECTRODE S AT THE APICAL END FOR STIMULATION OF APICAL SPIRAL GANGLION CELLS OF THE COCHLEA 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 555 091 filed Jul. 21 2012 by Ryan C. Stafford et al. titled OPTICAL STIMULATION COCHLEAR IMPLANT WITH ELECTRODE S AT THE APICAL END FOR ELECTRICAL STIMULATION OF APICAL SPIRAL GANGLION CELLS OF THE COCHLEA 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 555 092 filed Jul. 21 2012 by Ryan C. Stafford titled BROAD WAVELENGTH PROFILE TO HOMOGENIZE THE ABSORPTION PROFILE IN OPTICAL STIMULATION OF NERVES 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 555 093 filed Jul. 21 2012 by Ryan C. Stafford et al. titled INDIVIDUALLY OPTIMIZED PERFORMANCE OF OPTICALLY STIMULATING COCHLEAR IMPLANTS 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 555 094 filed Jul. 21 2012 by Ryan C. Stafford et al. titled COCHLEAR IMPLANT AND METHOD ENABLING ENHANCED MUSIC PERCEPTION which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 747 447 on Jun. 10 2014 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 555 095 filed Jul. 21 2012 by Ryan C. Stafford et al. titled COCHLEAR IMPLANT USING OPTICAL STIMULATION WITH ENCODED INFORMATION DESIGNED TO LIMIT HEATING EFFECTS 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 555 097 filed Jul. 21 2012 by Ryan C. Stafford et al. titled OPTICAL PULSE WIDTH MODULATION USED IN AN OPTICAL STIMULATION COCHLEAR IMPLANT 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 555 098 filed Jul. 21 2012 by Ryan C. Stafford et al. titled OPTIMIZED STIMULATION RATE OF AN OPTICALLY STIMULATING COCHLEAR IMPLANT and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 841 831 filed Mar. 15 2013 by Ryan C. Stafford et al. titled METHOD AND APPARATUS TO PROVIDE DIAGNOSTICS FOR COCHLEAR IMPLANT PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to tissue optics interactions of light with human or animal tissue and more particularly to methods and implantable apparatus for stimulating nerves of the inner ear in animals for example using an implantable device in medical treatments for conditions of the vestibular and cochlear systems.

Cochlear implants have successfully restored at least some hearing to approximately 200 000 people worldwide. As successful as these implants have been in restoring some function to the cochlea and the auditory portion of the inner ear there currently is not a reliable treatment that addresses the other portion of the inner ear the vestibular system. The vestibular system is responsible for providing balance to individuals. Millions of people worldwide suffer from balance disorders leaving many of those with severe cases debilitated and unable to perform normal daily tasks. Several groups have begun investigation of an electrical prosthesis for the vestibular system but will likely be limited because of current spread within the vestibular space. Additionally some early human recipients of electrical based vestibular implants have gone deaf after being implanted.

Many people would benefit from receiving both a cochlear implant and a vestibular implant if substantially all or all of the hair cells in the inner ear are damaged thus disabling the auditory and balance senses of an individual. Often implanting a device into the vestibular system or cochlear can damage the other system leading to the need for treatment of that other system. Since the vestibular and cochlear systems both reside in the inner ear and are connected a combined device would allow for effective treatment to be provided to each respective area. Additionally the use of optical stimulation for one or both of the devices is likely to be more efficacious because infrared nerve stimulation or a hybrid infrared and electrical method is more spatially selective than electrical by itself due to the current spreading that happens during electrical stimulation.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 004 645 to Brian E. Lemoff et al. hereinafter Lemoff et al. titled VCSEL ARRAY CONFIGURATION FOR A PARALLEL WDM TRANSMITTER issued Feb. 28 2006 and is incorporated herein by reference.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 031 363 to James R. Biard et al. hereinafter Biard et al. titled LONG WAVELENGTH VCSEL DEVICE PROCESSING issued Apr. 18 2006 and is incorporated herein by reference.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 225 028 to Charles C. Della Santina et al. hereinafter Della Santina et al. titled DUAL COCHLEAR VESTIBULAR STIMULATOR WITH CONTROL SIGNALS DERIVED FROM MOTION AND SPEECH SIGNALS issued May 29 2007 and is incorporated herein by reference.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 488 341 to Daniel M. Merfeld hereinafter Merfeld titled METHOD FOR OPTICAL STIMULATION OF THE VESTIBULAR SYSTEM issued Feb. 10 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2006 0129210 to Daniel Cantin et al. hereinafter Cantin et al. titled DEVICE AND METHOD FOR TRANSMITTING MULTIPLE OPTICALLY ENCODED STIMULATION SIGNALS TO MULTIPLE CELL LOCATIONS published Jun. 15 2006 and is incorporated herein by reference.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2007 0261127 to Edward S. Boyden et al. hereinafter Boyden et al. titled LIGHT ACTIVATED CATION CHANNEL AND USES THEREOF published Nov. 8 2007 and is incorporated herein by reference.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2009 0093403 to Feng Zhang et al. hereinafter Zhang et al. titled SYSTEMS METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR OPTICAL STIMULATION OF TARGET CELLS published Apr. 9 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2012 0022616 to Carolyn Garnham et al. hereinafter Garnham et al. titled VESTIBULAR IMPLANT SYSTEM WITH INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL MOTION SENSORS published Jan. 26 2012 and is incorporated herein by reference.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2013 0013030 to Anita Mahadevan Jansen et al. hereinafter Mahadevan Jansen et al. titled METHOD AND APPARATUS OF PULSED INFRARED LIGHT FOR THE INHIBITION OF CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM NEURONS published Jan. 10 2013 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Accordingly there is a need in the art for improved methods and implantable apparatus to treat various vestibular and cochlear problems.

In some embodiments the present invention provides infrared nerve stimulation to restore both hearing and balance function in a single device in some such embodiments the infrared nerve stimulation allows for more precise stimulation of nerves compared to electrical stimulation and the optical based delivery avoids the spreading of current and artifacts from stimulation that are present with electrical stimulation . In some embodiments the single device provides various combinations of electrical and optical stimulation to stimulate the cochlea and vestibular systems including infrared nerve stimulation a hybrid of infrared nerve stimulation and electrical nerve stimulation optogenetics and electrical stimulation.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method for triggering nerve action potentials NAPs in each one of a plurality of cochlear neurons in a cochlea of a person and in each one of a plurality of vestibular neurons in a vestibular organ of the person in order to provide auditory and balance sensations for the person the method including generating a first plurality of light signals that when applied to a selected one of the plurality of cochlear neurons stimulate a NAP in the selected cochlear neuron delivering the first plurality of light signals to the selected cochlear neuron from within the cochlea generating a second plurality of light signals that when applied to a selected one of the plurality of vestibular neurons stimulate a NAP in the selected vestibular neuron delivering during a first period of time the second plurality of light signals to the selected vestibular neuron from within the vestibular organ and selectively controlling the first plurality and the second plurality of light signals to optically stimulate the selected cochlear neuron and the selected vestibular neuron in order to trigger NAPs of the selected cochlear neuron and the selected vestibular neuron.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus for stimulating nerve action potentials NAPs in each one of a plurality of cochlear neurons in a cochlea of a person and in each one of a plurality of vestibular neurons in a vestibular organ of the person in order to provide auditory and balance sensations for the person the apparatus including a cochlear implant portion wherein the cochlear implant portion includes a first plurality of independently controllable light sources that are configured to generate a first plurality of light signals including a first light signal and a second light signal that when applied to a selected one of the plurality of cochlear neurons each stimulate a nerve action potential NAP in the selected cochlear neuron and a first transmission medium configured to transmit the first plurality of light signals from the first plurality of light sources to the selected cochlear neuron in order to trigger NAPs in the selected cochlear neuron a vestibular implant portion wherein the vestibular implant portion includes a second plurality of independently controllable light sources that are configured to generate a second plurality of light signals including a third light signal and a fourth light signal that when applied to a selected one of the plurality of vestibular neurons of a vestibular system of the person each stimulate a nerve action potential NAP in the selected vestibular neuron and a second transmission medium configured to transmit the second plurality of light signals from the second plurality of light sources to the selected vestibular neuron in order to trigger NAPs in the selected vestibular neuron and a controller operatively coupled to the cochlear implant portion to selectively control the first plurality of light signals from each of the first plurality of light sources such that the first plurality of light signals provide controlled optical stimulation to the selected cochlear neuron in order to trigger nerve action potentials NAPs produced by the selected cochlear neuron and wherein the controller is also operatively coupled to the vestibular implant portion to selectively control the second plurality of light signals from each of the second plurality of light sources such that the second plurality of light signals provide controlled optical stimulation to the selected vestibular neuron in order to trigger nerve action potentials NAPs produced by the selected vestibular neuron.

Although the following detailed description contains many specifics for the purpose of illustration a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the invention. Very narrow and specific examples are used to illustrate particular embodiments however the invention described in the claims is not intended to be limited to only these examples but rather includes the full scope of the attached claims. Accordingly the following preferred embodiments of the invention are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention. Further in the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The leading digit s of reference numbers appearing in the Figures generally corresponds to the Figure number in which that component is first introduced such that the same reference number is used throughout to refer to an identical component which appears in multiple Figures. Signals and connections may be referred to by the same reference number or label and the actual meaning will be clear from its use in the context of the description.

In some embodiments system includes a single device enclosure that houses a single multi function processor controller e.g. a micro controller configured to control both VI portion and CI portion a power supply configured to provide power for system a radio frequency transceiver and drivers operatively coupled to controller in some embodiments drivers include optical drivers to drive VCSELs and electrical drivers to drive electrodes . In some embodiments enclosure is placed inside the ear with VI portion and CI portion . In some such embodiments power supply is a battery and is configured to be charged wirelessly via transceiver from an external device located on the external surface of the body. In some embodiments external device also includes one or more environment sensors configured to sense balance conditions and or audio signals associated with the person using system and transmit controller input signals based on the sensed data to controller . In some such embodiments controller processes the received controller input signals and generates control signals for driving VI portion and or CI portion . In some embodiments enclosure is placed behind the ear lobe external to the inner ear labyrinth and processor controller communicates with VI portion and CI portion through a wireless e.g. via transceiver or wired connection. In some such embodiments enclosure itself includes the one or more environment sensors.

In some embodiments in order to lower the maximum instantaneous power required controller is configured to interleave pulses between CI portion and VI portion such that device doesn t have to send out more than one pulse in some embodiments an optical pulse in some embodiments an electrical pulse or in some embodiments a combined hybrid pulse at a time.

In some embodiments as a further example VI portion provides INS to the vestibular system while CI portion provides a hybrid of INS and electrical stimulation to the cochlea. In some such embodiments CI portion includes a system such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 555 091 which is incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments as still another example VI portion provides nerve stimulation via an optogenetics based procedure system while CI portion provides nerve stimulation via INS. As used herein optogenetics involves the introduction of fast light activated channels and enzymes that allow temporally precise manipulation of electrical and biochemical events while maintaining cell type resolution through the use of specific targeting mechanisms. In some embodiments the optogenetics based procedures provided by one or both of the VI portion and the CI portion includes procedures such as those described in Boyden et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication 2007 0261127 which is incorporated herein by reference. In some embodiments the optogenetics based procedures provided by one or both of the VI portion and the CI portion includes procedures such as those described in Zhang et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication 2009 0093403 which is incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments VCSEL array head is implanted near the vestibular organs and the electrical signals drive VCSEL array head such that it produces a plurality of laser light signals. In some embodiments VCSEL array head contains a plurality of optical lenses configured to direct the laser light on to the nerves and or tissue. In the embodiment shown optical lenses direct the light signals from the VCSEL array head toward the vestibular nerve branches . In other embodiments optical lenses direct the light signals from the VCSEL array head toward the vestibular nerve . In still other embodiments optical lenses direct the light signals from VCSEL array head toward one or more nerves of the vestibular ampullae utricle and the saccule . In some embodiments VCSEL array head does not include lenses and is configured to direct the laser light toward vestibular nerve vestibular ampullae utricle and or saccule .

In some embodiments long wavelength VCSEL devices and or VCSEL arrays such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 031 363 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 004 645 which are each incorporated herein by reference are used for the VCSEL array head in .

In some embodiments VCSEL controller is also operatively connected to a cochlear stimulator that includes a plurality of optical and or electrical stimulators . In some such embodiments controller is connected to stimulator via an electrical bundle . In other embodiments not shown controller includes a wireless transceiver configured to transmit and receive wireless signals such that controller communicates with and controls stimulator wirelessly. In some embodiments cochlear stimulator is at least partially inserted into the cochlea in some such embodiments stimulator is inserted into cochlea via round window of cochlea . In other embodiments stimulator is placed outside of the cochlea . In some embodiments cochlear stimulator includes a cochlear stimulation system such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 890 602 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments controller is operatively coupled to a power source configured to provide power to operate controller head and stimulator . In some embodiments controller is also operatively coupled to an environment input mechanism configured to receive environment conditions e.g. balance conditions and or audio signals generate controller input signals based on the received environment conditions and transmit the generated controller input signals to controller . In some embodiments controller includes a processor configured to process the controller input signals and generate appropriate control signals for the head and or stimulator such that head and or stimulator deliver stimulation signals that trigger NAPs in the desired nerve tissues.

In some embodiments stimulators include a plurality of VCSELs and system provides both inhibition and stimulation via the plurality of VCSELs by changing the optical parameters of the signals delivered by the plurality of VCSELs e.g. pulse width repetition rate energy or the like . In some embodiments stimulators include a combination of VCSELs and electrodes and inhibition is provided by the plurality of VCSELs while NAPs are triggered by electrical stimulation or by an optogenetics based procedure. In some embodiments system includes a nerve inhibition system such as those described in U.S. Patent Application Publication 2013 0013030 which is incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments system includes an audiologist surgeon and or user control console computer that is programmable and that has a wireless or wired optical fiber or other direct connection transceiver that allows wireless control of and or sensing from i.e. reprogramming of the remote microprocessors as well as receiving sensed signals and diagnostic information from the implanted vestibular cochlear stimulation device which in some embodiments includes a programmed microcontroller such as controller of . In some embodiments system controls the triggering of nerve action potentials NAPs in the nerves of the cochlea and or vestibular system for example in some embodiments system controls the delivery of optical stimulation signals e.g. INS signals that trigger an electrical response in one cochlear nerve or a small subset of cochlear nerves and that response is detected using one or more electrodes in device and then used optionally along with reported feedback from the patient to determine whether the device successfully triggered the desired NAPs and thus the desired sense of hearing .

In some embodiments computer instructions are stored in application programs and or other program modules that are stored and accessed from a storage device such as a hard disk a magnetic floppy disk or USB universal serial bus FLASH device often called a thumb drive that is read and or written by interface unit an optical disk that is read and or written by optical disk drive or from a remote computer having storage device accessed across a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN such as the internet. Thus some embodiments provide such non transitory storage media and or for storing instructions that when executed in computer and or in device perform the methods of the present invention. In some embodiments these methods include the output signal drive and input signal sensing functions for the nerve stimulation of the vestibular system and or cochlea including the various combinations of INS electrical and or optogenetics based nerve stimulation and the combination of the triggering of NAPs and the inhibition of NAPs in the vestibular nerve tissue. Note that in some embodiments a plurality of the optical signal based diagnostic sensing and feedback functions are implemented within a single device .

In some embodiments console computer communicates bi directionally with and or provides power to the device . In some embodiments application programs stored on a computer readable storage device e.g. optical disk CDROM DVD blue ray disk BD or the like magnetic or FLASH storage device e.g. floppy disk thumb drive SDHC memory card or the like and or a storage device connected to a remote computer that connects to computer across a local area network or a wide area network such as the internet contain instructions and or control structures such as look up tables control parameters databases and the like that are processed and or transmitted into the implanted device to control its operation by methods of the present invention described herein. In some embodiments the applications programs are partially executed in the computer and or an externally worn device e.g. external device of and then partially executed in the implanted device .

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method for triggering nerve action potentials NAPs in each one of a plurality of cochlear neurons in a cochlea of a person and in each one of a plurality of vestibular neurons in a vestibular organ of the person in order to provide auditory and balance sensations for the person the method including generating a first plurality of light signals that when applied to a selected one of the plurality of cochlear neurons stimulate a NAP in the selected cochlear neuron delivering the first plurality of light signals to the selected cochlear neuron from within the cochlea generating a second plurality of light signals that when applied to a selected one of the plurality of vestibular neurons stimulate a NAP in the selected vestibular neuron delivering during a first period of time the second plurality of light signals to the selected vestibular neuron from within the vestibular organ and selectively controlling the first plurality and the second plurality of light signals to optically stimulate the selected cochlear neuron and the selected vestibular neuron in order to trigger NAPs of the selected cochlear neuron and the selected vestibular neuron.

In some embodiments the method further includes receiving an audio signal receiving an orientation signal processing the received audio signal and generating cochlear pulse repetition rate information and cochlear pulse intensity information based on the received audio signal wherein the selectively controlling of the first plurality of light signals includes selectively controlling the first plurality of light signals to emit light pulses to selected locations of the cochlea based on the cochlear pulse repetition rate information and the cochlear pulse intensity information and processing the received orientation signal and generating vestibular pulse repetition rate information and vestibular pulse intensity information based on the received orientation signal wherein the selectively controlling of the second plurality of light signals includes selectively controlling the second plurality of light signals to emit light pulses to selected locations of the vestibular organ based on the vestibular pulse repetition rate information and the vestibular pulse intensity information.

In some embodiments the method further includes generating a third plurality of light signals that when applied to the selected vestibular neuron of the person reduces a background NAP rate in the selected vestibular neuron delivering during a second period of time the third plurality of light signals to the selected vestibular neuron and selectively controlling the third plurality of light signals to reduce the background NAP rate of the selected vestibular neuron during the second period of time.

In some embodiments the method further includes detecting a background NAP rate associated with the selected vestibular neuron generating a third plurality of light signals that when applied to the selected vestibular neuron of the person reduces the background NAP rate in the selected vestibular neuron delivering during a second period of time the third plurality of light signals to the selected vestibular neuron and selectively controlling the third plurality of light signals to reduce the background NAP rate of the selected vestibular neuron during the second period of time.

In some embodiments the method further includes generating a first plurality of electrical stimulation signals that when applied to the plurality of cochlear neurons sensitize the plurality of cochlear neurons delivering the first plurality of electrical stimulation signals to the plurality of cochlear neurons including the selected cochlear neuron generating a second plurality of electrical stimulation signals that when applied to the plurality of vestibular neurons sensitize the plurality of vestibular neurons delivering the second plurality of electrical stimulation signals to the plurality of vestibular neurons including the selected vestibular neuron and selectively controlling the first and second plurality of electrical stimulation signals to sensitize the plurality of cochlear neurons and the plurality of vestibular neurons in order to control NAPs of the selected cochlear neuron and the selected vestibular neuron but wherein others of the plurality of sensitized cochlear and vestibular neurons are not optically stimulated such that NAPs are not triggered in those other sensitized cochlear and vestibular neurons.

In some embodiments the method further includes optogenetically modifying the selected cochlear neuron and the selected vestibular neuron and using wavelengths selected for the optogenetically modified cochlear neuron and vestibular neuron triggering NAPs in the cochlear neuron and the vestibular neuron.

In some embodiments of the method the delivering of the first plurality of light signals to the selected cochlear neuron includes generating infrared light from a plurality of vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs .

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus for stimulating nerve action potentials NAPs in each one of a plurality of cochlear neurons in a cochlea of a person and in each one of a plurality of vestibular neurons in a vestibular organ of the person in order to provide auditory and balance sensations for the person the apparatus including a cochlear implant portion wherein the cochlear implant portion includes a first plurality of independently controllable light sources that are configured to generate a first plurality of light signals including a first light signal and a second light signal that when applied to a selected one of the plurality of cochlear neurons each stimulate a nerve action potential NAP in the selected cochlear neuron and a first transmission medium configured to transmit the first plurality of light signals from the first plurality of light sources to the selected cochlear neuron in order to trigger NAPs in the selected cochlear neuron a vestibular implant portion wherein the vestibular implant portion includes a second plurality of independently controllable light sources that are configured to generate a second plurality of light signals including a third light signal and a fourth light signal that when applied to a selected one of the plurality of vestibular neurons of a vestibular system of the person each stimulate a nerve action potential NAP in the selected vestibular neuron and a second transmission medium configured to transmit the second plurality of light signals from the second plurality of light sources to the selected vestibular neuron in order to trigger NAPs in the selected vestibular neuron and a controller operatively coupled to the cochlear implant portion to selectively control the first plurality of light signals from each of the first plurality of light sources such that the first plurality of light signals provide controlled optical stimulation to the selected cochlear neuron in order to trigger nerve action potentials NAPs produced by the selected cochlear neuron and wherein the controller is also operatively coupled to the vestibular implant portion to selectively control the second plurality of light signals from each of the second plurality of light sources such that the second plurality of light signals provide controlled optical stimulation to the selected vestibular neuron in order to trigger nerve action potentials NAPs produced by the selected vestibular neuron.

In some embodiments the apparatus further includes an audio signal sensor configured to receive an audio signal and transmit an audio controller input signal to the controller based on the received audio signal and an orientation signal sensor configured to receive an orientation signal and transmit an orientation controller input signal to the controller based on the received orientation signal wherein the controller is further configured to receive the audio controller input signal and the orientation controller input signal to obtain audio information and orientation information wherein the controller is further configured to control the first plurality of light signals to emit light pulses to selected locations of the cochlea based on the audio information and wherein the controller is further configured to control the second plurality of light signals to emit light pulses to selected locations of the vestibular organ based on the balance information.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the second plurality of light sources is configured to generate a third plurality of light signals that when applied to the selected vestibular neuron of the person reduces a background NAP rate in the selected vestibular neuron wherein the second transmission medium is further configured to deliver the third plurality of light signals to the selected vestibular neuron during a second period of time and wherein the controller is further configured to selectively control the third plurality of light signals to reduce the background NAP rate of the selected vestibular neuron during the second period of time.

In some embodiments the apparatus further includes a background sensor configured to detect a background NAP rate associated with the selected vestibular neuron and transmit a background NAP rate signal to the controller wherein the controller is further configured to process the received background NAP rate signal to obtain the background NAP rate and wherein the controller is further configured to control the third plurality of light signals to reduce the background NAP rate of the selected vestibular neuron during the second time period based on the received background NAP rate signal.

In some embodiments the apparatus further includes a first plurality of electrodes configured to generate a first plurality of electrical signals that when applied to the plurality of cochlear neurons including the selected cochlear neuron sensitize the plurality of cochlear neurons a third transmission medium configured to deliver the first plurality of electrical signals to the plurality of cochlear neurons a second plurality of electrodes configured to generate a second plurality of electrical signals that when applied to the plurality of vestibular neurons including the selected vestibular neuron sensitize the plurality of vestibular neurons a fourth transmission medium configured to deliver the second plurality of light signals to the plurality of vestibular neurons wherein the controller is further configured to selectively control the first and second plurality of electrical signals to sensitize the plurality of cochlear neurons and the plurality of vestibular neurons in order to control NAPs of the selected cochlear neuron and the selected vestibular neuron but wherein others of the plurality of sensitized cochlear and vestibular neurons are not optically stimulated such that NAPs are not triggered in those other sensitized cochlear and vestibular neurons.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the first plurality of independently controllable light sources includes a plurality of vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs . In some embodiments the controller is further configured to selectively change a wavelength of the first and second plurality of light signals to be a selected one of a plurality of selectable wavelengths. In some embodiments the controller is further configured to selectively control a duty cycle of the first and second plurality of light signals. In some embodiments the first transmission medium includes a plurality of optical fibers each having a conductive material applied to a surface of the optical fiber. In some embodiments the first transmission medium includes a lens and an optical fiber optically coupled to the lens. In some embodiments the first transmission medium includes a plurality of parallel optical signal transmission waveguides.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the first transmission medium is further configured to transmit a first pulsed light signal at a first time wherein the second transmission medium is further configured to transmit a second pulsed light signal at a second time and wherein the controller is further configured to interleave the transmission of the pulsed light signals generated by the first plurality of light sources and the second plurality of light sources wherein the first time is different than the second time.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus that includes means for generating a first plurality of light signals that when applied to a selected one of the plurality of cochlear neurons stimulate a NAP in the selected cochlear neuron means for delivering the first plurality of light signals to the selected cochlear neuron from within the cochlea means for generating a second plurality of light signals that when applied to a selected one of the plurality of vestibular neurons stimulate a NAP in the selected vestibular neuron means for delivering during a first period of time the second plurality of light signals to the selected vestibular neuron from within the vestibular organ and means for selectively controlling the first plurality and the second plurality of light signals to optically stimulate the selected cochlear neuron and the selected vestibular neuron in order to trigger NAPs of the selected cochlear neuron and the selected vestibular neuron.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method for triggering of nerve action potentials NAPs in one or more neurons in a cochlea of a person and in one or more neurons of a vestibular system of the person in order to provide auditory and balance sensations for the person the method including generating a first plurality of light signals that when applied to a cochlear neuron of the person stimulate a NAP in the cochlear neuron delivering the first plurality of light signals to one or more cochlear neurons of the person generating a second plurality of light signals that when applied to a vestibular neuron of the person stimulate a NAP in the vestibular neuron delivering the second plurality of light signals to one or more vestibular neurons of the person and selectively controlling the first and second plurality of light signals to optically stimulate the one or more cochlear and vestibular neurons in order to control NAPs produced by the one or more cochlear neurons and the one or more vestibular neurons.

In some embodiments the method further includes receiving an audio signal receiving a orientation balance signal e.g. a signal indicative of an orientation or a balance parameter of the person processing the received audio signal and the received balance signal to obtain frequency and intensity information wherein the selectively controlling of the first and second plurality of light signals includes selectively controlling the first plurality of light signals to emit light pulses to selected locations of the cochlea based on the frequency information and at selected pulse repetition rates based on the intensity information and selectively controlling the second plurality of light signals to emit light pulses to selected locations of the vestibular system based on the frequency information and at selected pulse repetition rates based on the intensity information.

In some embodiments the method further includes generating a third plurality of light signals that when applied to a vestibular neuron of the person inhibits a background NAP rate in the vestibular neuron delivering the third plurality of light signals to one or more vestibular neurons of the person and selectively controlling the third plurality of light signals to inhibit the background NAP rate of the one or more vestibular neurons in order to control NAPs produced by the one or more vestibular neurons.

In some embodiments the method further includes detecting a background NAP rate associated with the one or more vestibular neurons wherein the selectively controlling of the third plurality of light signals includes selectively controlling the third plurality of light signals to inhibit the detected background NAP rate.

In some embodiments the method further includes generating a first plurality of electrical signals that when applied to a cochlear neuron of the person sensitize the cochlear neuron delivering the first plurality of electrical signals to one or more cochlear neurons of the person generating a second plurality of electrical signals that when applied to a vestibular neuron of the person sensitize the vestibular neuron delivering the second plurality of light signals to one or more vestibular neurons of the person and selectively controlling the first and second plurality of electrical signals to sensitize the one or more cochlear and vestibular neurons in order to control NAPs produced by the one or more cochlear and vestibular neurons.

In some embodiments the method further includes optogenetically triggering NAPs in one or more cochlear and vestibular neurons. In some embodiments of the method the delivering of the first plurality of light signals to one or more cochlear neurons of the person includes delivering infrared light from one or more vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs .

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus for stimulating nerve action potentials NAPs in a cochlea and a vestibular system of a person the apparatus including a cochlear implant portion wherein the cochlear implant portion includes a first plurality of independently controllable light sources that are configured to generate a first plurality of light signals including a first light signal and a second light signal that when applied to a cochlear neuron of the person each stimulate a nerve action potential NAP in the cochlear neuron and a first transmission medium configured to transmit the first plurality of light signals from the first plurality of light sources to one or more neurons in the cochlea in order to trigger NAPs in the one or more neurons of the cochlea a vestibular implant portion wherein the vestibular implant portion includes a second plurality of independently controllable light sources that are configured to generate a second plurality of light signals including a third light signal and a fourth light signal that when applied to a vestibular neuron of a vestibular system of the person each stimulate a nerve action potential NAP in the vestibular neuron and a second transmission medium configured to transmit the second plurality of light signals from the second plurality of light sources to one or more neurons in the vestibular system in order to trigger NAPs in the one or more neurons of the vestibular system and a controller operatively coupled to the cochlear implant portion to selectively control the first plurality of light signals from each of the first plurality of light sources such that the first plurality of light signals provide controlled optical stimulation to the one or more of neurons of the cochlea in order to control nerve action potentials NAPs produced by the one or more neurons of the cochlea and operatively coupled to the vestibular implant portion to selectively control the second plurality of light signals from each of the second plurality of light sources such that the second plurality of light signals provide controlled optical stimulation to the one or more of neurons of the vestibular system in order to control nerve action potentials NAPs produced by the one or more neurons of the vestibular system.

In some embodiments the controller includes both an audio stimulation controller and a balance stimulation controller. In some embodiments the audio stimulation controller and the balance stimulation controller are housed in a single implanted enclosure. In other embodiments the audio stimulation controller and the balance stimulation controller are each housed in their own separate implanted enclosures.

In some embodiments the apparatus further includes an audio signal sensor configured to receive an audio signal and transmit an audio controller input signal to the controller based on the received audio signal and a balance signal sensor configured to receive a balance signal and transmit a balance controller input signal to the controller based on the received balance signal wherein the controller is further configured to receive the audio controller input signal and the balance controller input signal to obtain audio information and balance information wherein the controller is further configured to control the first plurality of light signals to emit light pulses to selected locations of the cochlea based on the audio information and wherein the controller is further configured to control the second plurality of light signals to emit light pulses to selected locations of the vestibular system based on the balance information.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the second plurality of light sources is configured to generate a third plurality of light signals that when applied to a vestibular neuron of the person inhibits a background NAP rate in the vestibular neuron wherein the second transmission medium is further configured to deliver the third plurality of light signals to one or more vestibular neurons of the person and wherein the controller is further configured to selectively control the third plurality of light signals to inhibit the background NAP rate of the one or more vestibular neurons in order to control NAPs produced by the one or more vestibular neurons.

In some embodiments the apparatus further includes a background sensor configured to detect a background NAP rate associated with the one or more vestibular neurons and transmit a background NAP rate signal to the controller based on the detected background NAP rate wherein the controller is further configured to process the received background NAP rate signal to obtain the background NAP rate and wherein the controller is further configured to control the third plurality of light signals to inhibit the background NAP rate of the one or more vestibular neurons based on the received background NAP rate signal.

In some embodiments the apparatus further includes a first plurality of electrodes configured to generate a first plurality of electrical signals that when applied to a cochlear neuron of the person sensitize the cochlear neuron a third transmission medium configured to deliver the first plurality of electrical signals to one or more cochlear neurons of the person a second plurality of electrodes configured to generate a second plurality of electrical signals that when applied to a vestibular neuron of the person sensitize the vestibular neuron a fourth transmission medium configured to deliver the second plurality of light signals to one or more vestibular neurons of the person wherein the controller is further configured to selectively control the first and second plurality of electrical signals to sensitize the one or more cochlear and vestibular neurons in order to control NAPs produced by the one or more cochlear and vestibular neurons.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the first plurality of independently controllable light sources includes a plurality of vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs . In some embodiments the controller is further configured to selectively control a wavelength of the first and second plurality of light signals. In some embodiments the controller is further configured to selectively control a duty cycle of the first and second plurality of light signals. In some embodiments the first transmission medium includes a plurality of optical fibers each having a conductive material applied to a surface of the optical fiber. In some embodiments the first transmission medium includes a lens. In some embodiments the first transmission medium includes a plurality of parallel optical signal transmission channels. In some embodiments the first and second plurality of light signals are pulsed light signals. In some embodiments the first transmission medium is further configured to transmit a first pulsed light signal at a first time wherein the second transmission medium is further configured to transmit a second pulsed light signal at a second time and wherein the controller is further configured to interleave the transmission of the pulsed light signals generated by the first plurality of light sources and the second plurality of light sources such that the first time is different than the second time.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method for stimulating triggering of NAPs in neurons in the cochlea in the cochlear nerve and or nerves of vestibular system to provide sensations e.g. auditory and or balance sensations for the patient. This method includes generating a plurality of light signals that when applied to a neuron of a person can stimulate a nerve action potential in the neuron delivering a first portion of the plurality of light signals to one or a plurality of neurons of the cochlea delivering a second portion of the plurality of light signals to one or a plurality of neurons of the vestibular system and selectively controlling the plurality of light signals to optically stimulate the one or more neurons in order to control nerve action potentials NAPs produced by the plurality of neurons. Some embodiments further include receiving or measuring or sensing or obtaining an environment signal e.g. an audio signal or a balance signal and processing the received environment signal to obtain frequency and intensity information wherein the delivering of light signals comprises delivering the light pulses to neurons of the cochlea and or the vestibular system and wherein the selectively controlling of the light signals includes selectively controlling the light signals to emit light pulses to selected locations of the cochlea and or the vestibular system of the patient based on the frequency information and at selected pulse repetition rates based on the intensity information.

In some such embodiments the method further includes delivering an electrical signal to the plurality of neurons of the cochlea and or the vestibular system such that a combination of the electrical signal and the light signals stimulate the nerve action potentials in the plurality of neurons. In some embodiments the present invention uses electrical sources where appropriate for widespread stimulation either using a higher signal strength electrical stimulation alone to trigger widespread NAPs in surrounding tissue and or using a lower signal strength electrical stimulation signal to sensitize the nearby tissue in order to reduce the optical power needed to trigger NAPs and utilizes optical signal sources for triggering the frequency specific spikes . This allows for power supply savings by limiting i.e. reducing the use of the optical sources for triggering NAPs in response to sensed broadband audio signals audio signals having many different frequency components and better replication improved fidelity of the hearing sensation of the patient of the audio signal content by using the characteristics of both electrical and optical stimulation when only one or just a few frequency components are sensed. In some embodiments the electrical and optical stimulation sources are connected to and driven by the output of a signal processor whose input is coupled to signals from both an acoustic detector device e.g. in some embodiments a device such as are typically used for electrical stimulation cochlear implants and to signals from a balance sensing device e.g. a gyroscope accelerometer or the like . In some embodiments the signal processor device processes the acoustic and balance information and separates the signals into two or more groups including at least one with broadband characteristics and at least one with narrow band characteristics. The device then selectively activates the electrical and optical sources based at least in part on the broadband and narrow band groups.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method for stimulating neurons of a cochlea and or vestibular system of a patient to provide sensations for the patient. This method includes generating a plurality of light signals that have different wavelengths and that when applied to a neuron of a person can stimulate a nerve action potential in the neuron generating sensitizing signals that when applied to a neuron of a person can sensitize the neuron to trigger a nerve action potential in the neuron upon an additional application of light to the neuron delivering the sensitizing signals to a plurality of neurons of the cochlea and or vestibular system of the patient delivering the generated light signals to a plurality of neurons of the cochlea and or the vestibular system of the patient and selectively controlling the plurality of light signals to optically stimulate the plurality of neurons in order to control nerve action potentials NAPs produced by the plurality of neurons. In some embodiments the sensitizing signals include sub threshold electrical signals signals that alone have a low probability e.g. in some embodiments less than 25 probability of triggering a NAP from one such sub threshold electrical signal or in other embodiments less than 33 20 10 5 or 2 probability of triggering a NAP from one such sub threshold electrical signal that reduce the amount of optical energy needed to reliably trigger a NAP.

Some embodiments of the method further include further comprising sensing one or more conditions that affect balance wherein the selectively controlling the plurality of light signals includes controlling the light signals at least partly based on the sensed one or more conditions that affect balance to provide a sense of balance nerve stimulation to the vestibular system of the patient receiving an audio signal and processing the received audio signal to obtain audio frequency and intensity information wherein the delivering of at least a portion of the plurality of light signals comprises delivering the light pulses to the cochlea of the person and wherein the selectively controlling of the light signals includes selectively controlling the light signals to emit light pulses to selected locations of the cochlea of the person based on the frequency information and at selected pulse repetition rates based on the intensity information.

In some embodiments the delivering of light signals further includes delivering infrared light from a laser. In some embodiments the delivering of light signals further includes delivering infrared light from a vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL .

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus that includes a cochlear implant portion wherein the cochlear implant portion includes a first plurality of independently controllable light sources that are configured to generate a first plurality of light signals including a first light signal and a second light signal that when applied to a cochlear neuron of the person each stimulate a nerve action potential NAP in the cochlear neuron a first transmission medium configured to transmit the first plurality of light signals from the first plurality of light sources to one or more neurons in the cochlea in order to trigger NAPs in the one or more neurons of the cochlea a vestibular implant portion wherein the vestibular implant portion includes a second plurality of independently controllable light sources that are configured to generate a second plurality of light signals including a third light signal and a fourth light signal that when applied to a vestibular neuron of a vestibular system of the person each stimulate a nerve action potential NAP in the vestibular neuron a second transmission medium configured to transmit the second plurality of light signals from the second plurality of light sources to one or more neurons in the vestibular system in order to trigger NAPs in the one or more neurons of the vestibular system and a controller operatively coupled to the cochlear implant portion to selectively control the first plurality of light signals from each of the first plurality of light sources such that the first plurality of light signals provide controlled optical stimulation to the one or more of neurons of the cochlea in order to control nerve action potentials NAPs produced by the one or more neurons of the cochlea and operatively coupled to the vestibular implant portion to selectively control the second plurality of light signals from each of the second plurality of light sources such that the second plurality of light signals provide controlled optical stimulation to the one or more of neurons of the vestibular system in order to control nerve action potentials NAPs produced by the one or more neurons of the vestibular system.

In some embodiments of the apparatus control of the light signals provided by the controller includes selective control of a duty cycle of the plurality of light signals. In some embodiments of the apparatus the control of the light signals provided by the controller includes selective control of a wavelength of the plurality of light signals. In some embodiments of the apparatus the first and second transmission media include a plurality of data channels i.e. input and or output channels called I Os . In some embodiments the first and second transmission media include a plurality of optical fibers each having a conductive material e.g. a metal film applied to a surface of the optical fiber wherein the conductive material is in turn covered with an insulator e.g. a polymer coating and or a silicon oxide and or silicon nitride insulator layer and optionally one or more additional conductive layers further coated by additional insulator layers to provide a coaxially shielded electrical conductor that is formed directly on the optical fiber and wherein the optical fiber is used to deliver the optical stimulation pulses and the one or more electrical conductors are used to transmit electrical stimulation or pre conditioning electrical energy to the tissue being stimulated. In some embodiments the electrical conductors are also used to carry electrical signals sensed from the neurons of the patient e.g. NAP signals in the nerve pathways are detected electrically using the conductors formed on the optical fibers .

In some embodiments of the apparatus the first and second transmission media include a plurality of optical fibers each of which carries a different signal. In some such embodiments the plurality of optical fibers each have one or more electrical conductors formed thereon wherein each of a plurality of the electrical conductors carry a different signal. In some embodiments of the apparatus the first and second transmission media include an optical fiber. In some embodiments of the apparatus the first and second transmission media include a lens. In some embodiments of the apparatus the first and second transmission media delivers the first and second plurality of light signals from the first and second plurality of light sources without using an optical fiber or a lens.

Some embodiments of the apparatus further includes a microphone having a signal output operatively coupled to a first wireless transmitter that is configured to transmit information based on the microphone signal to the controller and the apparatus further includes a balance detection device having a signal output operatively coupled to a second wireless transmitter that is configured to transmit information based on the balance signal to the controller.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus that includes a cochlear implant portion wherein the cochlear implant portion includes a first plurality of independently controllable light sources that are configured to generate a first plurality of light signals including a first light signal and a second light signal that when applied to a cochlear neuron of the person while the cochlear neuron is sensitized each will stimulate a nerve action potential NAP in the cochlear neuron a first sensitizing signal generator that generates a first plurality of sensitizing signals including a first sensitizing signal and a second sensitizing signal that when applied to the cochlear neuron of the person will sensitize the neuron to trigger a NAP in the neuron upon application of one or more of the plurality light signals to the neuron a transmission medium configured to transmit the first light signal from the first plurality of light sources to one or more cochlear neurons of a first auditory nerve pathway of the person and to transmit the second light signal from the plurality of light sources to one or more neurons of a second auditory nerve pathway of the person a vestibular implant portion that includes a second plurality of independently controllable light sources that are configured to generate a second plurality of light signals including a third light signal and a fourth light signal that when applied to a vestibular neuron of the person while the vestibular neuron is sensitized each will stimulate a nerve action potential NAP in the vestibular neuron a second sensitizing signal generator that generates a second plurality of sensitizing signals including a third sensitizing signal and a fourth sensitizing signal that when applied to the vestibular neuron of the person will sensitize the vestibular neuron to trigger a NAP in the vestibular neuron upon application of one or more of the second plurality light signals to the vestibular neuron a transmission medium configured to transmit the third light signal from the second plurality of light sources to one or more vestibular neurons of a first vestibular nerve pathway of the person and to transmit the fourth light signal from the second plurality of light sources to one or more vestibular neurons of a second vestibular nerve pathway.

It is specifically contemplated that the present invention includes embodiments having combinations and subcombinations of the various embodiments and features that are individually described herein including the various embodiments described by patent applications and patents incorporated by reference herein i.e. rather than listing every combinatorial of the elements this specification includes descriptions of representative embodiments and contemplates embodiments that include some of the features from one embodiment combined with some of the features of another embodiment . Further some embodiments include fewer than all the components described as part of any one of the embodiments described herein.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Although numerous characteristics and advantages of various embodiments as described herein have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of various embodiments many other embodiments and changes to details will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should be therefore determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

