---

title: Safety automation builder
abstract: A safety automation builder that assists in development of compliant safety functions for industrial safety systems is provided. The safety automation builder imports a system drawing or image of a user's manufacturing line, machine, or production area, and guides the user through a workflow that facilitates configuration of safety functions for each hazardous access point. The safety automation builder leverages a library of safety devices and encoded knowledge of industrial safety standards to guide the user toward selection of suitable safety devices for mitigating risks associated with the access points. Once configured, the safety automation builder can export the safety function data to an external verification system for confirmation that the configured safety functions comply with the prescribed industrial safety standards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430589&OS=09430589&RS=09430589
owner: ROCKWELL AUTOMATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09430589
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130205
---
The subject application relates generally to industrial automation and more particularly to systems and methods for guided safety system design and documentation in accordance with industry standards.

Modern industrial automation lines often include a number of hazardous machine access points that if inappropriately breached can cause injury to an operator. These access points can expose the operator to risks associated with dangerous machine components including but not limited to crushing by moving parts electrocution through contact with exposed high voltage lines or components chemical burn laceration or dismemberment by a moving blade radiation exposure or other such hazards.

To mitigate the risks associated with these access points plant engineers typically implement safety solutions designed to protect operators who interact with the access points. For example a proximity switch may be installed on a safety gate that provides access to a hazardous machine. The proximity switch output may be tied to a logic device that operates a contactor to isolate power from the machine when the proximity switch indicates that the safety gate is open. In another example an access point that allows an operator to load a part in a stamping press area may be protected by a light curtain that detects when a physical body e.g. an operator s arm has reached through the access point. As with the exemplary proximity switch described above the light curtain s output can be tied to a logic device that controls a contactor to isolate power to the press while the light curtain is broken by the detected body.

The functional safety solutions implemented for a hazardous access point must be compliant with current industry specific functional safety standards such as those defined by the International Organization for Standardization ISO or the International Electrotechnical Commission IEC . Such standards may define formal methodologies for determining a risk level associated with a machine and provide statutory guidelines for designing safety systems to mitigate the risk. For example the safety standards may define requirements dictating safety system types and configuration that must be implemented to counter a particular type of hazard.

Selecting the proper safety system hardware for a given safety function that satisfies the industrial safety standards can be a complicated and time consuming task typically involving manual selection of safety devices from a catalog and documentation of the input logic and output devices that make up the safety system. Moreover safety system designers are required to be conversant with the prevailing safety standards to ensure that the resulting safety function is designed in compliance with the standards.

The above described deficiencies of today s industrial control and business systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to automated design and documentation of safety solutions for industrial automation systems. To this end a safety automation builder can guide a designer through the process of identifying hazardous access points throughout their automation system and designing a suitable safety solution for each access point in compliance with industrial safety standards. The safety automation builder can include an interface that allows the designer to import an image of the machine or line for which one or more safety solutions are to be implemented and to superimpose safety design aspects e.g. zones hazardous access areas safety function devices etc. on the imported image. For each identified access point the safety automation builder guides the user though the steps of defining a required performance level for the access point as determined by a risk assessment performed on the machine and designing one or more safety functions that satisfy the required performance level. To facilitate automated selection of suitable input logic and output devices for each required safety function the safety automation builder can include a product selection tool configured to access a library of safety devices and present a filtered set of devices that meet the application criteria defined by the user.

As the user defines the solutions and selects input logic and output components the safety automation builder builds a table of safety functions organized according to the user defined hazardous access points. This table can be used as the basis for documentation of the resulting safety systems to be implemented on the line including but not limited to a bill of materials .

In addition the safety automation builder can include an export tool that exports the safety function data compiled in the table to an external performance level verification tool for confirmation that the resulting safety function designs will operate at the required performance levels and thus comply with the industrial safety standards. The safety automation builder can receive a validation report from the safety compliance verification tool which can report the performance level validation results for each safety function as determined by the validation tool. In this way the safety automation builder can mitigate the need to manually enter the safety function data in the required fields of the validation tool.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

Design of functional safety solutions for industrial automation systems can be broadly viewed in terms of three general tasks risk assessment safety system design and design verification. Risk assessment is a formal evaluation of an automation line or machine that determines for each identified hazardous access point a likelihood and severity of injury that can result if an operator improperly interacts with the access point. In general the goal of the risk assessment is to assess the level of risk associated with an access point and decide whether the level of risk is such that work can be performed safely. The risk assessment can determine a required performance level PLr for each access point that defines a minimum degree of safety equipment performance and risk mitigation capability that satisfies the prescribed safety standards e.g. ISO or IEC standards given a likelihood and severity of the risk.

Based on the results of the risk assessment the designer then designs a safety solution for the hazardous access point that achieves the required performance level. This requires the designer to possess a working understanding of current safety standards and how those standards should be applied to their own automation system. With these standards in mind the designer must then select suitable input logic and output devices for each required safety function in accordance with the standards. Typically the designer selects these devices from one or more vendor catalogs based on their understanding of the prescribed requirements. Finally once the safety devices have been specified and a safety function configuration has been designed the resulting safety function must be submitted for design verification to confirm that the design satisfies the required performance level determined by the risk assessment. Design verification can be carried out by manual assessment of the safety function or by entering information about the safety function into a performance level verification tool that calculates the performance level achieved by the safety function and confirms that the design complies with the standards.

This process of translating the results of the risk assessment into a compliant safety function design and verifying the design prior to implementation can be complicated and time consuming. Moreover if the designer lacks sufficient knowledge of the prevailing safety standards the resulting safety function design may fail the initial performance level verification necessitating a redesign of the safety function. Accordingly one or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a safety automation builder that automates much of the product selection safety function design and verification processes.

One or more embodiments of safety automation builder can include a user interface component a device search component a safety function table generator a bill of materials generator a risk assessment component a performance level verification interface a reporting component one or more processors and memory . In various embodiments one or more of the components the one or more processors and memory can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the safety automation builder . In some embodiments components can comprise software instructions stored on memory and executed by processor s . The safety automation builder may also interact with other hardware and or software components not depicted in . For example processor s may interact with one or more external user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse a display monitor a touchscreen or other such interface devices.

User interface component can be configured to receive user input and to render output to the user in any suitable format e.g. visual audio tactile etc. . User input can be for example risk assessment data device selection input user responses to prompts provided by the user interface component or other such data. Device search component can be configured to access a library of input logic and output safety device and retrieve a filtered subset of devices that satisfy a set of safety function criteria provide by the user via user interface component . Safety function table generator can be configured to tabulate the safety devices included in the safety functions designed using the safety automation builder . The resulting table can include information required by an external performance level verification system to calculate the performance levels that will be achieved by the respective safety functions.

Bill of materials generator can generate and output a bill of materials documenting the safety devices used in the resulting safety function designs. The bill of materials can include such data as a catalog number a description and pricing information for each listed device. Performance level verification interface can be configured to exchange data with an external performance level verification tool not shown . For example data tabulated by the safety function table generator can be exported to the performance level verification tool via performance level verification interface so that the verification tool can calculate a performance level achieved by each safety function specified in the safety function table. Subsequently performance level verification interface can receive report data from the performance level verification tool that specifies an achieved performance level for each safety function and confirms whether the components structures and designs meet the required performance level dictated by the prevailing safety standards.

Reporting component can be configured to generate documentation for the designed safety functions. Such reports can include for example a validation report based on the verification results received by the performance level verification interface a hierarchical safety function tree that organizes the safety devices in use according to line zone access point etc. or other such reports. Optionally safety automation builder can also include risk assessment component which can be configured to guide the user through the risk assessment process for their automation line or machine and calculate a required performance level for each identified hazardous access point. The one or more processors can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed. Memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed.

Once the system image has been imported safety automation builder can guide the user though the process of entering additional system data required by the system. For example the user can enter zone definitions that delineate and name one or more zones that make up the automation system. These zone definitions can be defined graphically through interaction with the system drawing previously imported into the safety automation builder . Similarly the user can also locate and name one or more hazardous access points for which a safety function is required as well as a type of hazard e.g. cutting crushing impact flying debris etc. associated with each access point. Information regarding the location and type of guarding in place can also be provided to the safety automation builder through interaction with the system drawing. For each defined access point the user will also be prompted to provide risk assessment data previously collected as part of a general risk assessment. This risk assessment data can comprise for example a required performance level PLr or safety category for each access point. The required performance level and or category can be dictated by the industrial safety standards e.g. ISO or IEC standards based on such criteria as a type of risk a probability of injury a possibility of avoiding injury or other such factors.

As the various access points and associated risk assessment information e.g. required performance levels are defined for a given project safety automation builder will assist the user in selecting suitable combinations of input logic and output safety devices for reducing the risk associated with each access point in accordance with the required performance level. The configuration of an input safety device a logic safety device and an output safety device for mitigating risk associated with an access point is referred to herein as a safety function. Safety automation builder allows one or more safety functions to be configured for each access point defined by the user and guides the user through the process of selecting suitable input logic and output safety devices for each defined safety function in accordance with the industrial safety standards.

Once all access points safety functions and associated safety devices have been defined for the project safety automation builder can leverage this data for a variety of functions. For example safety automation builder can export the list of selected safety devices into a bill of materials that itemizes the selected safety devices including catalog numbers device specifications and pricing information. Safety automation builder can also use the project data to generate other forms of safety system documentation including but not limited to line drawings on which hazardous access point identifiers and safety devices are superimposed.

Moreover portions of the safety system data entered and or generated for the project can be exported to a separate performance level verification system which can carry out performance level calculations on the defined safety functions and their associated safety devices to determine an actual performance level achieved by each safety function. These calculated performance levels can be compared with the required performance levels for each access point to determine whether the resulting safety function designs comply with the prescribed safety standards. By compiling and exporting the safety function data required by performance level verification system safety automation builder eliminates the need to manually populate the data entry fields of the performance level verification system significantly reducing the time and effort required to verify a safety function design using conventional methods. In some embodiments safety automation builder can subsequently receive a performance level report from performance level verification system for presentation to the user via the safety automation builder s interface. The workflow described above in connection with is described in more detail below.

For a given project which can represent a particular automation line machine manufacturing area or the like the safety automation builder can prompt the user to define one or more access points present on the line. These access points represent areas that expose an operator to dangerous machinery or that otherwise pose a risk of injury if the operator improperly interacts with the access point. An exemplary access point may comprise a manual loading station into which an operator hand loads parts into a stamping press. The press may be operated using dual buttons mounted near the station to ensure that both of the operator s hands are clear of the stamping area when the press is activated. However there may still be a degree of risk each time the operator reaches through the access point since it may be possible for maintenance personnel to bypass normal operation of the press without the operator s knowledge. Another exemplary access point may comprise a section of a conveyor line that if the access point is improperly breached by an operation may trap the operator s fingers under a conveyor roller. The safety automation builder can allow the user to select a location of each access point on the imported system drawing name the access point specify the type of hazard associated with the access point e.g. crushing burning entrapment etc. or provide other such information.

For each access point defined by the user the safety automation builder will guide the user through the process of designing one or more safety functions to mitigate the risk associated with the access point. The safety automation builder allows the user to name each safety function and to assign a required performance level and or category to each safety function . The performance level and or category of a safety function represents a classification of the safety function in terms of its ability to tolerate faults and to perform a required safety function under foreseeable conditions. In general the required performance level or category of a safety function to be implemented for a hazardous access point is dictated by industrial safety standards e.g. ISO or IEC standards . The required performance level and or category for a given access point may be determined by a risk assessment performed on the automation line or machine prior to creating project in the safety automation builder. Alternatively one or more embodiments of the safety automation builder described herein may include a risk assessment tool e.g. risk assessment component of that can guide the user through the process of determining the required performance level or category for a particular access point.

The required performance level and or category for a given access point can be determined based on characteristics of the risk associated with the access point. For example the EN ISO 13849 1 standard defines five performance levels a through e defining respective five levels of system reliability and capability. The risk graph used to determine which of these performance levels is required for a given access point is depicted in . As illustrated in risk graph the required performance level is a function of severity of injury that can result from improper interaction with the access point a frequency of exposure to the risk and a possibility of avoiding the injury. By running these factors through risk graph the required performance level PLr can be ascertained. Although ISO performance levels are depicted in it is to be appreciate that some embodiments of the safety automation builder may allow other types of safety system ratings to be specified e.g. IEC safety integrity levels .

Returning now to once an access point has been defined for the project and a safety function with a specified performance level and or category has been created the input device logic device and output device must be specified for the safety function. A safety function typically comprises at least one input device to detect a user action requiring a safety countermeasure to be performed e.g. a light curtain a pressure mat an interlock switch etc. at least one output device for generating an output that triggers the safety action e.g. a safety contactor for isolating power to a hazardous device a variable frequency drive with integrated safety functionality etc. and a logic device for controlling the output device based on signaling received from the input device e.g. a programmable safety controller a safety relay etc. . These safety devices must be selected and configured such that the resulting safety function meets the required performance level and or category specified for the safety function .

To assist designers who may not have sufficient working knowledge of the prevailing safety standards and how those standards determine product selection the safety automation builder can present the user with a list of suitable input devices logic devices and output devices for each defined safety function based on the system data provided by the user e.g. the performance level the hazard type the safety function type etc. . To this end the safety automation builder can include or can remotely access a library of input output and logic safety devices. For each defined safety function safety automation builder can search this library using portions of the system data provided by the user as search criteria and retrieve a filtered subset of input output and logic devices suitable for the particular hazard and required performance level defined for the access point.

This guided device selection process is described in more detail in connection with . After the user has defined an access point e.g. item of the data hierarchy of created a new instance of a safety function for the access point e.g. item of and specified a required performance level and or category for the safety function e.g. item of the safety automation builder will prompt the user via user interface component to enter safety function data to be used as criteria for selection of a suitable input safety device for the safety function. Safety function data can include data regarding an expected operational frequency of the safety system. For example the safety automation builder interface may provide an input field for entering an Operations per Hour value an Hours per Day value and a Days per Year value for the safety function. Based on the values entered for these parameters safety automation builder can calculate an expected number of operations per year providing the safety automation builder with a measure of the expected rate of wear on the input safety device. The operation frequency may have a bearing on which safety device is selected by the safety automation builder since the reliability and lifecycle of a device may degrade more quickly as a function of operational frequency. Consequently in order to satisfy a required performance level the safety automation builder may select a device rated to be more resistant to reliability degradation if the user enters a relatively high operating frequency.

Other safety function data provided by the user can include a type of input device and or a product type. For example the safety automation builder may prompt the user to indicate whether the desired type of input device is a separating device e.g. a fence or gate a non separating device e.g. a light curtain or pressure mat or an operator device e.g. an emergency stop button or pull cord . Based on the user s selection the safety automation builder may prompt the user for additional device specifications to facilitate narrowing the set of devices to a smaller subset that satisfies the entered criteria and required performance level. It is to be appreciated that the types of safety function data described above are only intended to be exemplary and that embodiments of the safety automation builder can incorporate design workflows that prompt the user for any suitable combination of safety function data relevant to selection of a suitable input safety device.

Based on the safety function data provided by the user under the guidance of the safety automation builder the device search component generates filter criteria representing the criteria specified by the safety function data as well as the required performance level previously entered for the safety function . Device search component submits the filter criteria to a safety device library containing specification data for a range of input output and logic safety devices. In one or more embodiments safety device library can store for each device such information as catalog number device description device specifications current pricing information connector information or other such device information. In one or more embodiments safety device library can reside locally relative to the safety automation builder that is the library can be installed on the local computing device that executes the safety automation builder . Alternatively safety device library can reside at a remote location accessible by the safety automation builder. For example safety device library may reside on a web server accessible via an Internet connection. In another example safety device library may reside on cloud based storage accessible by cloud capable devices having appropriate access privileges e.g. based on a subscription service . By maintaining safety device library on a web server or cloud platform for centralized access by multiple clients the safety device data stored in the library can be kept current by product vendors having write access privileges to the library as will be described in more detail below.

In response to submission of filter criteria safety device library returns a filtered subset of candidate devices that satisfy the requirements encoded in filter criteria . In one or more embodiments the safety automation builder may guide the user in a step wise manner through the process of narrowing the total set of available devices down to a filtered subset of candidate devices . For example after a new access point and associated safety function have been instantiated in the safety automation builder the user may be prompted to select the desired device type for the safety function s input safety device e.g. separating non separating or operator device . Upon selecting non separating as the device type the safety automation builder may present the user with a first filtered set of input devices that satisfy the selected non separating device type category as well as the required performance level and operational frequency previously defined for the safety function. The safety automation builder may present this first filtered set in a categorized and or hierarchical list e.g. organized by vendor product type or device specification categories . The user may then either select a particular device from this first filtered list or select a sub category from the organized list to yield a second list filtered according to the selected sub category. In this manner one or more embodiments at the safety automation builder can allow the user to browse a hierarchy of device categories until a suitable input safety device is selected. By prompting the user for known system requirements and presenting the user with one or more filtered lists of candidate devices satisfying those requirements the safety automation builder drives the user toward a suitable safety input device for inclusion in the user s safety function. Moreover the safety automation builder selects the filtered set of candidate devices based on encoded knowledge of the prevailing industrial safety standards such that the candidate devices returned to the user are known to satisfy the required performance level in view of the operational frequency entered by the user. In this way the safety automation builder substantially automates compliance with the industrial safety standards and reduces the burden on the designer to be conversant with the industrial safety standards when designing the safety system.

After the user has selected a suitable safety input device using the techniques described above the safety automation builder assists the user to select a safety logic device and a safety output device for the defined safety function in a similar manner. As with the safety input device the safety automation builder will prompt the user for selection criteria to facilitate identification of suitable logic and output safety devices from the safety device library .

Returning now to the hierarchical representation of project elements in the selected input logic and output safety devices are represented as elements and respectively. As illustrated in completion of the guided workflow described above yields a safety project comprising one or more defined access points representing the hazardous access points of the automation system one or more defined safety functions having respective required performance levels and or categories with each safety function comprising one or more input devices logic devices and output devices . Once all access points for a project have been defined and all safety functions have been designed including specification of all input logic and output devices the safety automation builder can leverage the compiled project data in a number of ways. For example returning to safety project data representing the safety project hierarchy of can be provided to a bill of materials generator similar to bill of materials generator of which can create a bill of materials listing the safety devices to be used on the line. In one example the resulting bill of materials can list the input output and logic safety device specified for all defined safety functions and can include for each device such information as catalog number device quantity description pricing information product availability data or other such information. The bill of materials can be used as a guide for purchasing the specified safety devices. An exemplary bill of materials that can be created by bill of materials generator is illustrated in .

The safety project data can also be provided to a safety function table generator similar to safety function table generator of which can use the data to populate a safety function table for the project. An exemplary safety function table is illustrated in . Safety function table lists the safety functions defined for the project and includes columns for the safety function symbol and name the input output and logic devices selected for each safety function the required performance level PLr specified for each safety function and the expected operational frequency of the safety function e.g. number of operations per year .

In one or more embodiments the data tabulated in safety function table can correspond to the data required by a separate performance level verification system to determine whether each safety function will achieve the required performance level dictated by the prescribed industrial safety standards. Conventionally this data must be entered into such performance level verification systems manually. However the safety automation builder can include an export function that allows the data tabulated in safety function table based on the information provided by the user under the guidance of the safety automation builder to be exported to appropriate fields of the performance level verification system e.g. performance level verification system of greatly simplifying the process of designing and verifying safety system components for a given automation system. In this regard the safety automation builder can be configured to map the columns of safety function table to corresponding data fields of the performance level verification system. When the export feature is initiated the data in the columns of safety function table can be exported to the corresponding fields of the performance level verification system to which they are mapped.

Returning to the safety project data can also be provided to a reporting component similar to reporting component of which can be configured to generate other forms of safety system documentation based on the safety project data. Such documentation can include for example enhanced system drawings comprising the automation system image initially imported into the safety automation builder with all or portions of the safety project data superimposed thereon. For example the enhanced system drawings can include indicators labeling each identified access point with a hazard specific marker images of the safety devices to be installed on the system drawings of safety guarding added to the original image or other such documentation.

To illustrate the features described above depict a series of exemplary safety automation builder interface screens that can be presented to the user to facilitate guided safety function design. It is to be appreciated however that these interface screens are only intended to be exemplary and that any interface screen layouts suitable for guiding the user through the workflow described above are within the scope of one or more embodiments this disclosure.

Turning to once the project is created the user can import a custom image of the line for which the safety functions are to be designed. For example clicking on the Image button can open a browsing window that allows the user to browse to and select the desired custom image to be imported. The imported image will appear in the layout area . Once imported the safety automation builder can automatically scale the image to match the resolution of the interface. The image can be for example a machine elevation drawing of the line in any suitable format e.g. .jpg .gif AutoCAD etc. .

Next the safety automation builder can present a number of safety questions determined to ascertain whether the user has performed a preliminary risk assessment on the line. For embodiments in which the safety automation builder does not include an integrated risk assessment tool the user is encourages to perform such a risk assessment prior to developing a safety system project since the safety automation builder must know the required performance levels needed for each access point per the prescribed industrial safety standards. Accordingly safety questions can inquire whether the user has performed a risk assessment whether the user has written or has access to a function safety specification outlining the required safety functions and or whether the user has determined the required performance levels for each required safety function. In one or more embodiments if the user selects No for the question of whether a risk assessment has been performed the safety automation builder can present a warning message recommending that the user design the system according to the highest performance level or category e.g. PLe . Answering No to the question of whether a functional safety specification has been written can cause the safety automation builder to display one or more disclaimers regarding any safety function developed using the builder without first developing a functional safety specification but will allow the user to proceed with the safety function design nevertheless. Alternatively the safety automation builder may not allow the user to proceed to the next steps of the design process unless all questions have been answered affirmatively.

As noted above one or more embodiments of the safety automation builder can include integrated risk assessment tools that assist the user in determining required safety levels for all hazardous access points on a line. In such embodiments the safety automation builder can forego safety questions and can instead guide the user through the risk assessment steps to facilitate identification of the safety functions required for the line and corresponding performance levels required for each safety function in accordance with the industrial safety standards.

The Project Properties area can also include a Default System Performance Level field in which the user can set a default required performance level for the system. When a required performance level is set in field the required performance level fields on subsequent safety function development screens will automatically be populated with this default performance level.

Next with reference to the user can begin configuring the safety functions for the project by clicking on the Layout tab which displays the layout area . If desired the user can delineate the line or machine into zones. Clicking on the Zones drop down displays two zone delineators which can be dragged into the layout area and superimposed on the custom image . As depicted in a square zone delineator has been dragged onto the custom image from the Zones drop down to define a first zone of Assembly Line . Once placed on the custom image the zone delineator can be resized and or rotated by the user through graphic manipulation until the zone is properly described. The safety automation builder allows the user to name each zone as it is created. The zone information defined in this step can be used by the safety automation builder for reporting purposes e.g. organizing safety function information according to the respective zones .

Once the zones have been defined the user can identify the hazardous access points as illustrated in . Clicking on the Hazards drop down causes a number of hazard indicators to be displayed. The hazard indicators can be organized according to hazard type e.g. mechanical electrical thermal radiation substance etc. . The hazard indicators can be nested according to these hazard types such that clicking on a hazard type drop down e.g. Mechanical Hazards drop down reveals the available hazard indicators corresponding to the selected type.

The safety automation builder allows the user to drag a selected hazard indicator from the drop down area to the layout area and place the selected hazard indicator on the custom image of the line. In the present example the user has identified three hazardous areas on the graphical representation of Assembly Line and placed three hazard indicators cutting indicator puncture indicator and burn indicator at these respective hazardous areas. The hazard indicators and can be resized in the layout area as desired. The locations of the hazardous areas on which the hazard indicators should be placed can be determined based on results of the risk assessment performed prior to creating the safety function project.

When the hazardous access points have been defined using the hazard indicators the user can proceed to add guarding to the layout as illustrated in . Clicking on the Guarding drop down displays one or more guarding icons that can be added to the design layout. In the present example guarding icons include a stationary guard icon and a moveable guard icon representing for example a movable gate . As with the hazard indicators the guarding icons can be dragged from the Guarding drop down and onto the layout area where the guarding graphics can be moved resized and rotated as needed to place the guards at the appropriate locations on the Assembly Line graphical representation. In the present example stationary guards and movable guards have been added to the Assembly Line representation within the defined zone.

After placing the necessary guarding on the layout area the user can begin defining the hazardous access points for which safety functions must be implemented. In general an access point should be defined for each location at which operators can interact with the machine e.g. at each movable guard and at each location where there is no guarding between the operator and the machine . To begin defining access points the user can select the Access Points drop down to display one or more access point icons . Multiple access point icons of various shapes can be provided. To define the access points the user can drag a selected one of the access point icons to the layout area where the selected icon can be located resized and rotated as needed until the icon is oriented at the desired location on the Assembly Line representation. In the present example three access points have been defined. Access point represents a location at which there is no guarding between the user and the machine while access points and are located at respective movable guards where operators are exposed to the machine if the movable guards are opened.

As illustrated in when at least one access point has been added to the layout area an access point tab is enabled. Selecting access point tab displays the Safety Function Access point configuration area which allows the user to configure each defined access point and to build one or more corresponding safety functions for each access point . In the illustrated example access point has been selected for configuration. The user can enter a name for the access point in the access point name field e.g. AccessPoint  and can then proceed to configure one or more safety functions for the selected access point .

Selecting the green icon adds a new safety function for the selected access point . In the present example a default name of SF is assigned to the new safety function by the safety automation builder however a user defined name for the safety function e.g. SafetyFunction  can be entered in the safety function name field .

The required performance level and or category for the new safety function can be entered in the Performance Level and Category fields . The required performance level and or category can be determined by the risk assessment performed prior to safety function development or can be determined using an integrated risk assessment tool included in one or more embodiments of the safety automation builder . If the user has defined a default performance level in the Default System Performance Level field the default performance level will be automatically written to the Performance Level field for the safety function.

In the Type field the user can specify a type of safety function to be designed for the selected access point e.g. emergency stop system light curtain system etc. . The expected operational frequency of the safety function can be entered in the Operational Frequency fields . The performance level safety function type and operational frequency entered in these fields can be used by the safety automation builder to select a filtered subset of available safety function devices that satisfy the system requirements in view of the prescribed industrial safety standards. For example knowing the expected operational frequency of the safety function which can have an impact on device lifecycle and reliability the safety automation builder can select safety devices rated to withstand the indicated operational frequency while satisfying the operational requirements dictated by the required performance level. The type of safety system indicated in the Type field can further filter this subset of devices to include only those devices corresponding to the indicated type.

Each safety function created in the safety automation builder comprises an associated input device output device and logic device which work together to implement the safety function. As noted above the safety automation builder can access a library of safety devices e.g. safety device library of based on programmed knowledge of the prevailing safety standards to assist the user in selecting an appropriate set of safety devices for the safety function. Accordingly the Safety Function Access Point configuration window includes an Input Device field an Output Device field and a Logic Device field . By interacting with these fields the user can navigate through the set of available safety devices stored in the safety device library until a suitable device satisfying the user defined criteria and the required performance level and or category is selected.

Selecting Input Device field begins the process of selecting a suitable input device for the new safety function. When Input Device field is selected an input device selection window is displayed. Input device selection window can present the user with a series of input device selection options that drive the user through a progressively narrower subset of available safety devices until a single input device is selected. In the illustrated example input device selection window presents three categories of input devices separating non separating and operator devices that can be selected by the user. Separating input devices are associated with safety functions that provide a physical separation between the operator and the machine such as interlock switches that indicate whether a guard door is closed and locked. Non separating input devices can comprise devices that detect presence of a person or object in or near the hazardous access point but do not provide physical separation between the machine and the operator. Exemplary non separating device can include safety light curtains and laser scanners pressure sensitive safety mats and the like. Operator devices can include devices that are manually actuated by a user such as emergency stop buttons and safety pull cords.

Upon selection of one of the categories of input devices presented on input device selection window the user may be presented with a list of input device products under the selected category that satisfy the requirements previously entered by the user e.g. required performance level operational frequency safety function type etc. . The safety automation builder selects the list of qualifying products based on a search of safety device library that uses the entered safety function data as search criteria taking into account the requirements dictated by the prescribed industrial safety standards . In some embodiments the user may be presented with additional selection options after selection of the product category before the list of qualifying products is presented. At this stage the list of qualifying products may only represent general product types e.g. a particular line of safety curtain products without yet specifying a particular catalog number for a specific device.

Turning now to when the user selects an input device product from the input device selection window the name of the selected product type appears in Input Device field . In the present example the user has selected GuardShield safety light curtains as the product type. To proceed with selection of a specific device from among the available GuardShield safety light curtains the user can select the Configure button to invoke Product Configurator window . If the user knows the order code for the desired safety light curtain the order code can be entered in Order Code field . Otherwise the interactive selection chart can be used to choose selectable options that facilitate identification of suitable light curtain from the GuardShield line. In the present example the user can select options for one or more of a height to be protected whether the light curtain includes integrated laser alignment a resolution a number of beams a type of system connector and types of cordsets. Based on the options selected in the interactive selection chart the specific light curtain products that satisfy the entered criteria will appear in the device selection area . As additional selections are made in the interactive selection chart the list of qualifying devices displayed in device selection area will gradually narrow. At any time the user may select a desired device from the list displayed in the device selection area and the safety automation builder will accept the selected device as the input device for the safety function being configured.

Upon final selection of an input device the safety automation builder can present the user with an image representing the input device which can be dragged to the Assembly Line representation in the layout area. illustrates placement of input device images on the Assembly Line representation for the three defined access points.

Using a workflow similar to that described above for selection of an input device the user can select an output device and a logic device for the new safety function. As illustrated in an output device IEC Safety contactor and a logic device 440R D22R2 safety relay has been selected. Upon selection of the output device and logic device images and representing the respective output and logic devices selected by the user are displayed in the corresponding Details areas. If desired the user can drag these images to the layout area and place the images on the Assembly Line representation in similar fashion to the input device images . However the user may opt to leave these images off of the Assembly Line graphical representation for reasons of clarity.

The process described above for configuring a safety function for the first access point can be repeated for all other access points defined for the system. Additionally the safety automation builder allows the user to configure more than one safety function each comprising an input output and logic device for a given access point. As illustrated in each of the three access points defined for Assembly Line as described above in connection with have been assigned respective safety functions SF SF and SF . Images representing the input devices selected for the respective safety functions have been placed on the graphical representation of Assembly Line near their corresponding access points.

Although the present example describes construction of a safety function by individually selecting each of the input output and logic safety devices one or more embodiments of the safety automation builder can also include a number of preconfigured safety functions that each comprise a pre selected input output and logic device. These predefined safety functions may correspond to commonly used safety functions and may be selected from a predefined safety function data field e.g. a drop down field a browsable interface etc. . Selection of a predefined safety function will automatically populate the input output and logic device fields with the devices corresponding to the selected preconfigured safety function.

In addition after a user has selected an input output and logic device for a given application one or more embodiments of the safety automation builder can allow the user to store the resulting safety function as a user defined safety function. Once created and stored the user defined safety function can be selected during configuration of subsequent applications similar to the predefined safety functions. In this way safety functions that will be used on multiple automation systems can be stored the first time the safety function is created and thereafter selected on subsequent applications to facilitate automated configuration of the input output and logic device fields.

With these safety functions defined the safety automation builder can organize and document the safety function data in a number of ways. Turning now to selection of the Table button in the upper toolbar displays a safety function view of the configured safety system including a safety function table similar to safety function table of listing each defined safety function SF SF and SF in the present example and associated data. Each safety function entry includes data columns for the input output and logic devices selected for the safety function as well as the required performance level and expected number of operations per year for the safety function. The data presented in the safety function table corresponds to the data provided by the user under the guidance of the safety automation builder as described above.

In one or more embodiments this basic set of safety function data can correspond to the data required by a separate performance level verification system e.g. performance level verification system of . Selecting the Export button in the upper toolbar can cause the data tabulated in the safety function table to be exported to the performance level verification system e.g. via performance level verification interface of for analysis. If the performance level verification system is not already running on the user s local client device selection of the Export button can launch the verification system prior to exporting the safety function data. The performance level verification system itself may comprise a software tool designed to verify a safety function s compliance with a required performance level. Some such verification tools require the safety function data to be entered manually by a user. However the export tool of the safety automation builder using performance level verification interface can automatically populate the required fields in the performance level verification system with the data tabulated in the safety function table mitigating the need to enter this data into the verification system manually. In response the performance level verification system can perform the necessary verification analysis on each defined safety function based on the exported data. In one or more embodiments the performance level verification interface can be configured to receive verification report data from the performance level verification system and render the results of the analysis on the safety automation builder interface as a safety document.

The safety function view interface can also include a number of additional viewing option checkboxes that allow the user to add additional data columns to safety function table . Selecting one of the checkboxes will add the selected data item to the safety function table . These optional table columns can include for example the access point name safety function type triggering event e.g. light curtain break safe state of the safety function and reaction of the safety function to the triggering event. These data items can be determined based on the data selected or entered by the user during configuration of the safety functions as described above as well as product data for the selected safety devices retrieved from the safety device library.

In addition to the safety function table the safety automation builder can generate a bill of materials based on the data entered or selected by the user and the product data retrieved from the safety device library e.g. bill of materials of . Moreover the final system layout drawing including representations of the zones guarding hazard indicators access points and safety function devices added by the user during the development steps described above can be saved and printed for documentation purposes. In the present example the final system layout drawing would resemble the Assembly Line layout depicted in .

One or more embodiments of the safety automation builder described herein can be executed locally on a user s client device e.g. desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer etc. using the client device s local resources. In addition some embodiments of the safety automation builder can reside and execute on a cloud platform for centralized access by cloud capable devices. illustrates an exemplary safety automation builder that runs as a cloud based service. In this example the safety automation builder executes as a cloud based service hosted by cloud platform . Cloud platform can be any infrastructure that allows shared computing services e.g. safety automation builder services to be accessed and utilized by cloud capable client devices . Cloud platform can be a public cloud accessible via the Internet by devices having Internet connectivity and appropriate authorizations to utilize the services . In some scenarios cloud platform can be provided by a cloud provider as a platform as a service PaaS and the safety automation builder services can reside and execute on the cloud platform as a cloud based service. In some such configurations access to the cloud platform and associated safety automation builder services can be provided to customers as a subscription service by an owner of the safety automation builder services . Alternatively cloud platform can be a private cloud operated internally by an industrial enterprise. An exemplary private cloud platform can comprise a set of servers hosting the safety automation builder services and residing on a corporate network protected by a firewall.

In the present cloud based embodiment safety automation builder services can implement the safety function development functions described above e.g. safety automation builder interface features device search features safety function table generation risk assessment features etc. . However rather than executing locally on a client device these safety automation builder functions are made available as cloud based safety automation builder services that execute using cloud resources of cloud platform e.g. cloud based processing and storage . As in previously described examples cloud based safety automation builder can include a safety device library containing information on available input logic and output safety devices which can be accessed by the safety automation builder services to facilitate identification and selection of suitable safety function devices. Safety device library is maintained on cloud storage associated with cloud platform . Maintaining safety device library on cloud based storage allows for expansion of the library since the cloud based storage can be easily scaled to accommodate a growing library of devices.

Cloud capable client devices can access the cloud based safety automation builder through a generic Internet level. To facilitate client interaction with the safety automation builder services cloud based safety automation builder can serve interface screens e.g. the interface screens depicted in to the client devices . The interface screens can then be viewed using the client devices native display capabilities. The display screens can be preconfigured by an administrator of the cloud based safety automation builder although some embodiments can allow the owners of the client devices to customize the way the interface screens are presented on the respective devices. Client devices can comprise personal device such as mobile phones having graphical display capabilities desktop or laptop computers tablet computers or other such devices.

Similar to examples described above safety automation builder services can include the capability to export configured safety function data to a separate performance level verification system to confirm compliance with the required performance levels as dictated by prescribed industrial safety standards . As with safety automation builder services the performance level verification system may be a cloud based system comprising performance level verification services that reside on cloud platform or on a separate cloud platform or a web server and that execute using cloud based resources e.g. storage and processing associated with the cloud platform . Accordingly once a user has developed the necessary safety functions for a given automation system via client devices safety automation builder services can export portions at the safety function data to performance level verification services which can perform the necessary verification calculations on the data and return a report confirming whether the safety function designs satisfy the required performance levels.

Cloud based safety automation builder can provide centralized access to the safety automation builder services to multiple customers at disparate geographical locations. Access to the safety automation builder services can be provided for example using a subscription model wherein customers pay a subscription fee in exchange for access to the services. Moreover the cloud based implementation can allow authorized customers to save their safety function documentation on cloud storage allocated for use by the customer. For example after the user has been guided through the process of developing all necessary safety functions for their system the resulting safety function documentation including safety function tables layout drawings bill of materials etc. can be saved on the cloud platform on a portion of cloud storage allocated to the user as part of the user s subscription agreement.

Maintaining the safety device library on web based or cloud based storage can allow safety device vendors with suitable access privileges to maintain the library with up to date information about their safety products. illustrates centralized access to a cloud based safety device library by vendors and clients. Similar to the example discussed above in connection with cloud platform maintains a safety device library on cloud based storage associated with the cloud platform. Safety device library can be accessed by cloud based safety automation builder services similar to safety automation builder services of to facilitate guided configuration of safety functions as described above in previous examples. Alternatively safety device library can be accessed by a local safety automation builder that executes locally on a cloud capable client device .

Additionally safety device library can be accessed by a client device associated with a safety device vendor having suitable write privileges to the library. Such write privileges can allow the vendor to add or modify product data on the safety device library including but not limited to catalog numbers product specification data product pricing data etc. To this end the cloud platform can serve a library interface to the vendor s client device that provides the necessary graphical interface screens and data fields for adding new products or editing existing product data on the safety device library . In this way the safety product data made available to the cloud based safety automation builder or local safety automation builder can be kept current accurately reflecting the vendor s current product availability and pricing.

At the configuration data received via interaction with the system drawing is compiled to yield exportable safety function data. The safety function data can include for example a list of all safety functions defined for the automation system identification of the input output and logic devices selected for each defined safety function a required performance level for each defined safety function and or other such information. At the compiled safety function data is exported to a performance level verification system capable of analyzing the safety function data to determine whether the designed safety functions are capable of achieving the required performance levels. At a performance level report is received from the performance level verification system. The performance level report includes verification information confirming whether each defined safety function specified in the exported safety function data will achieve the required performance level and is generated based on the exported safety function data.

At one of the access points defined in step is selected for configuration. At performance level data defining a required performance level for the selected access point is received. The required performance level can be determined for example based on a risk assessment performed previously on the automation line machine or production area. The required performance level can be entered by the user using a designated field provided by the safety automation builder. At safety function data specifying a safety function to be used to protect the selected access point is received. The safety function data can include identification of suitable input logic and output devices for the safety function as well as any appropriate configuration data for the selected devices. In one or more embodiments the safety automation builder can assist the user in selecting appropriate devices for the safety function based on the required performance level provided at step a type of safety function indicated by the user or other device specifications provided by the user in response to prompts from the safety automation builder.

At a determination is made regarding whether additional access points need to be configured. If it is determined that there are additional access points the method returns to step where another access point is selected and steps and are repeated to configure a safety function for the next selected access point. If it is determined that there are no additional access points that is safety functions have been defined for all access points defined in step the method moves to step where the safety function data collected in steps are exported to one or more applications for processing. Such applications can include but are not limited to a performance level verification system a bill of materials generator or other documentation generating applications.

At a library of safety device is searched using the safety function data provided in step as search criteria. In one or more embodiments the library can reside locally as part of the safety automation builder. Alternatively the library can reside on a web server or cloud platform accessible via the Internet and the safety automation builder can access the library over a network connection. The search can identify a subset of input output and logic safety devices meeting the criteria provided at step . At a subset of safety devices that satisfy the criteria specified in the safety function data is presented. The safety automation builder can select as the subset of safety devices those devices that are capable of achieving the required performance level given the indicated operational frequency in accordance with the safety standards.

At selection of one of the subset of safety devices for inclusion in the safety function is received. For example if the safety function input device is being selected the subset of safety devices presented in step can comprise only input safety device and the user can select from the subset a desired input device to be incorporated in the safety function. Subsequently the user can be presented with a subset of output safety devices based on the entered criteria and a suitable output device can be selected. Finally a suitable logic safety device can be selected from a presented list of logic safety devices satisfying the entered criteria.

At the selected safety device is added to a safety function definition for the access point selected at step . Optionally at a graphic of the selected safety device can be placed on a graphical layout of the industrial system that has been imported into the safety automation builder. Finally at a safety system report is generated based on the safety function definition created at step . The safety system report can comprise for example a bill of materials including all selected safety devices and associated specification and pricing data a safety function table that lists all defined safety functions and their associated safety device a line layout drawing that includes graphical representations of the safety functions on or near their associated access points or other such reports. In another example the safety function data can be exported to a separate performance level verification system for confirmation that the safety functions are capable of satisfying the required performance levels.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs automation controllers communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC or automation controller as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs or automation controllers can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC or automation controller can also communicate to and control various other devices such as I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and Ethernet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Multi core microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 8 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

