---

title: Alignment restoration device for load transporting apparatus
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a load transporting apparatus that automatically aligns a support foot of the apparatus with a load-bearing frame connected to the load transporting apparatus during a recovery phase of an incremental walking movement. In particular, the load transporting apparatus includes a linking device attached to a support foot of the apparatus and a biasing device connected to the linking device that is deflected during non-linear load transporting movements, where the biasing device acts to automatically return the support foot to an aligned position relative to the load-bearing frame after a non-linear movement has been completed and the support foot is raised above a ground surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09004203&OS=09004203&RS=09004203
owner: Entro Industries, Inc.
number: 09004203
owner_city: Hillsboro
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 711 269 filed Dec. 11 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 561 733 issued Oct. 22 2013 entitled ALIGNMENT RESTORATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 576 657 filed Dec. 16 2011 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TRANSPORTING A LOAD the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 711 193 filed Dec. 11 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 573 334 issued Nov. 5 2013 entitled ROTATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 711 315 filed Dec. 11 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 490 724 issued Jul. 23 2013 entitled CENTERING DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to apparatuses for transporting a load and more particularly to apparatuses for moving heavy loads over small distances with the ability to fine tune the resultant position of the heavy load.

Moving extremely heavy loads has generally been a complicated task because the large forces involved in lifting and transporting the heavy loads. When possible large loads are often transported by disassembling or breaking up the load into multiple smaller loads. However this break down and subsequent reassembly process can be very time consuming especially when a heavy load is only to be moved a small distance or needs to be repositioned.

For heavy loads that need periodic movement or adjustment devices commonly referred to as walking machines or walkers were developed. These machines typically move the heavy loads over small distances in incremental stages. Walking machines are particularly useful for moving large structures such as oil rigs which often times need to be moved in order to properly position them over pre drilled pipes in oil fields or moved to a new location that is undergoing oil exploration.

Instead of using wheels driven by rotational forces to move heavy loads walking machines typically use hydraulic lift cylinders to lift the load above a supporting surface and then move or rotate the load relative to the supporting surface by transporting the load via rollers or tracks in the walking machines. U.S. Pat. No. 5 921 336 to Reed and U.S. Pat. No. 6 581 525 to Smith show two methods of using walking machines to move heavy loads such as oil rig structures. The 525 patent shows elongated beams under several rollers and lift cylinders which allows the load from the lift cylinders and rollers to be spread over a large area. However this disclosed system in the 525 patent does not allow for movement of heavy load in a direction perpendicular to the long axis of the support beams. That is movement of the heavy load is restricted in the walking device disclosed in the 525 patent to only particular directions which can make fine tuning of the position of the heavy load difficult.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a load transporting apparatus that automatically aligns a support foot of the apparatus with a load bearing frame connected to the load transporting apparatus during a recovery phase of an incremental walking movement. In particular the load transporting apparatus includes a linking device attached to a support foot of the apparatus and a biasing device connected to the linking device that is deflected during non linear load transporting movements where the biasing device acts to automatically return the support foot to an aligned position relative to the load bearing frame after a non linear movement has been completed and the support foot is raised above a ground surface.

As described above walkers or walking machines are vehicles that are used for transporting very heavy loads such as entire oil well drilling rigs. Such loads may be as great as several thousand tons and may be required to be sequentially positioned very precisely over spaced apart well bores for example. Embodiments of the present concept are directed to load transporting apparatuses such as walking machines for moving heavy loads over small distances with the ability to fine tune the resultant position of the heavy load. For ease of understanding the terms walkers walking machines walking devices and walking apparatuses are used interchangeably below. Load transporting apparatuses or systems may include one or more walking machines. Additionally a walking machine s subassembly of components that facilitate movement of the walking machine are referred herein as a walking mechanism. Walking machines may incorporate one or more walking mechanisms depending on the specific configuration of a walking machine.

For example with reference a load transporting system includes multiple walking machines that support a load being carried by the load transporting system. show examples of walking apparatuses attached to various loads according to embodiments of the invention. Referring to multiple walking apparatuses are positioned under or adjacent to an oil rig . Typically walking machines are positioned at least near edge portions of a load to balance the weight of the load over the various walking machines. However specific situations may dictate that walking machines are positioned in various other locations relative to the load .

Referring to multiple walking apparatuses are positioned under or adjacent to a silo . Although an oil rig load and a silo are respectively illustrated in walking machines may be used to move any type of relatively large load such as bridge sections ship sections structures etc. Additionally although two walking machines are shown in more or fewer walking machines may be used to move loads .

Referring to the walking apparatuses are operated to lift the load above the base surface . The walking apparatuses may again be operated substantially simultaneously to lift the load or may be operated in intervals depending on the conditions associated with the desired move.

Referring to the walking apparatuses are operated to move the load to the right. Although shows the load being moved to the right the walking apparatuses can be operated to move the load in a variety of directions depending on the desired final location of the load. Referring to the walking apparatuses are operated to lower the load to the base surface and to raise the foot portions of the walking apparatuses above the base surface. That is after the load is positioned on the base surface the walking apparatuses are further operated so that they are raised above the base surface. Here the connection between the walking apparatuses and the load support the walking apparatuses when they are raised above the base surface . After the walking apparatuses are raised above the base surface they are further operated to be repositioned for another movement walking step such as by moving the foot portions of the walking apparatuses to the right so that they are in a position as shown in . That is the base surface touching part of the walking apparatuses e.g. the support foot and related structures is moved to the right while the walking apparatuses are raised above the base surface . After the walking apparatuses have been repositioned they are operated to be lowered to the base surface as shown in . This completes a single walking cycle and further walking cycles or steps can be performed by repeating the steps described above with respect to .

As mentioned above walking apparatuses can be connected to loads in a variety of ways depending on the specific conditions surrounding the load. illustrate two such connection schemes. Although two connection schemes are illustrated in embodiments of the invention are not limited to such connection schemes as many different connection variations exist and are included in the scope of this concept.

Referring to a walking apparatus includes a support foot to interface with a base surface and a lift mechanism to raise and lower a load . In the embodiment shown in the lift mechanism of the walking apparatus is attached to a connection frame which in turn is bolted to framework supporting the load with bolts or other connection mechanisms. In some embodiments the connection frame may be part of the walking apparatus and in some instances may be permanently welded bolted or otherwise connected to the lift mechanism of the walking apparatus. In other embodiments the connection frame may be separate from the walking apparatus and may only be temporarily used with the walking apparatus in certain situations. In these embodiments for example multiple different connection frames may be built or used with specific load conditions or specifications.

In these embodiments the linking devices are coupled to the biasing device so that when the roller assembly moves the load in a direction different than the orientation of the support foot a deflection force is generated and or stored as potential energy in the biasing device . This deflection force may be stored by deforming the biasing device within the elastic region of a stress strain curve associated with a material of the biasing device. For example in embodiments where the biasing device is a torsional bar the deflection force transmitted to the biasing device during the non linear displacement or movement may cause the torsional bar to twist.

The contact between the support foot and the base or ground surface creates substantial frictional forces that prevent the support foot from rotating or moving during the non linear displacement. During the recovery phase of the walking cycle the support foot is raised above the base surface which eliminates the frictional forces between the foot and the base surface. Once the support foot begins to lose contact with the base surface the potential energy stored in the biasing device is used to return the support foot to an aligned position relative to the load bearing frame . The alignment of the load bearing frame is dictated by the movement of the roller assembly by the travel mechanism . Hence when the roller assembly is non linearly displaced e.g. moved such as shown in the orientation of the load bearing frame becomes skewed from the orientation of the support foot . In the above example where the biasing device is a torsional bar the support foot is returned to a positioned aligned relative to the load bearing frame when the support foot loses contact with the base surface and the torsion bar is allowed to untwist thereby re orienting the support foot. In other words the torsion bar is activated when an angular displacement occurs between the support foot and the load bearing frame where the activation of the torsion bar including a torquing force being applied to the torsion bar.

Although a torsion bar is discussed as the biasing device may different types of biasing devices may be used in other embodiments such as leaf springs coil springs chains hydraulic cylinders motors or any other type of device that can be deflected and or store potential energy to apply a realignment force to the support foot .

The roller track of the walking apparatus may be coupled to the support foot with a connection mechanism that allows the support foot to rotate relative to the roller track. Various connection mechanisms may be used to facilitate this relative rotation such as a rotation pin described below in and in the above mentioned application Ser. No. 13 711 193. In addition the lift mechanism may be structured to allow the roller assembly to rotate about a substantially vertical axis in the center of a cylinder rod of the lift mechanism. That is the roller assembly may also be free to rotate around the cylinder rod of the lift mechanism .

The walking apparatus may also include a travel mechanism that is connected to the roller track and coupled to the roller assembly such that when the travel mechanism is activated the roller assembly moves relative to the roller track. In the embodiment shown in the travel mechanism includes two travel cylinders mounted on the roller track on opposite sides of the roller track. Here the travel cylinders of the travel mechanism may balance the load being moved by the roller assembly over the roller track . In other embodiments one travel cylinder or three or more travel cylinders may be used to move the roller assembly relative to the roller track . In other embodiments the travel mechanism may include different movement structures such as pulleys levers winches tracks etc.

In the embodiments shown in the roller assembly may include a plurality of rollers or roller chain that rotate as well as roll on the roller track . That is in some embodiments the roller assembly may include a WBOT series roller assembly from Hilman Rollers. Due to the configuration of the roller chain of the roller assembly and the tolerance between the roller assembly and the roller track of the walking machine the rollers of the roller chain will typically be engaged with the roller track during operation and use of the walking machine.

The roller assembly may be secured to the lower end of the lift mechanism with the roller assembly being captured within a U shaped roller track . The roller assembly may be configured to roll along the bottom inside surface of the roller track as well as along the underside of the two upper flanges of the roller track. The one or more travel cylinders may be coupled between the lift mechanism and the roller track . Accordingly as will be understood from the more detailed discussion below these travel cylinders permit for the translation of the roller track relative to the lift mechanism and vice versa. As discussed above the roller track may be secured to the elongate ground engaging foot support foot via a rotational pin not shown in but similar to element of which enables the roller track to be rotationally positioned relative to the foot for steering of the walking machine .

As shown in a linking mechanism is coupled to the support foot and a biasing device shown more clearly as element in . In some embodiments the linking mechanism may include a first linking device attached at a first end of the support foot where a second linking device connected to a second end of the support foot opposite of the first end of the first support foot such as shown in . The biasing device may be coupled between the first and second linking devices of the linking mechanism .

In the embodiments shown in the linking mechanism includes a first linking rod connected to the support foot with a first pivot joint . In some embodiments the first pivot joint may be a spherical rod end bearing configured to allow movement in three degrees of freedom. In other embodiments the first pivot joint may be another type of joint such as a hinge joint that restricts movement to one or two degrees of freedom.

The linking mechanism may also include a second linking rod connected to the first linking rod with a second pivot joint . As with the first pivot joint the second pivot joint may be a spherical rod end bearing or any other type of joint. The second linking rod may further be connected to the load bearing frame . In other embodiments the one or more biasing devices are also coupled to the load bearing frame .

As shown in the first and second pivot joints allow linking mechanism to move vertically with the support foot without deflecting or otherwise activating the biasing device .

As shown in co pending application Ser. No. 13 711 315 entitled CENTERING DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS the contents of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety a walking apparatus may also include one or more guide devices positioned adjacent to the roller assembly and one or more biasing devices coupled to the guide devices. Here the biasing devices may be structured to become deflected during a load movement phase when the movement of the roller assembly deviates from a set direction of travel and structured to return the support foot to a centered position relative to the support foot during a recovery phase.

Referring to a walking apparatus includes a support foot positioned on a base surface and connected to roller track . The roller track is structured to allow a roller assembly to move relative to the roller track when activated by a travel mechanism . A lift mechanism such as hydraulic jack is connected between the roller assembly and load bearing frame . A linking device includes a first linking member that is connected to the support foot and a second linking member that connects the first linking member to the load bearing frame . A biasing device is also connected to the linking device and structured to become deflected or activated during a non linear movement of the roller assembly relative to the support foot . As shown in the walking apparatus is in an initial position of a walking cycle in a spin steering mode. The roller tracks of each walking apparatus are oriented in a desired direction of travel. Here in this first step of making a spin movement the lift mechanisms are activated to lift the load bearing frame and load above the base surface.

Referring to a step in a walking motion of the walking machine is illustrated. Specifically as indicated by the arrows showing rotation of the load bearing frame the travel mechanism is activated to displace the roller assembly relative to the roller track as shown. In this second step the walking system is moved in a circular or spin direction. Here the travel cylinders of the travel mechanism are actuated and the load bearing frame moves to a new angle. The support feet are on the support surface and an angle of displacement occurs between the load bearing frame and the support feet. This non linear movement or angular displacement causes an angular change in the biasing device . In embodiments where the biasing device is a torsion bar the resulting torque on the torsion bar causes the part of the linking device to be in compression and causes another part of the linking device to be in tension.

Referring to the travel mechanism has finished moving the roller assembly and load bearing frame . Additionally the lift mechanism has been activated to lower the load and load bearing frame . Here the load bearing frame has just contacted the ground surface. However the support foot is still positioned on the ground surface as well. Hence the biasing devices are still in a deflected activated or biased state.

Referring to the lift mechanism is continued to be operated such that the support foot loses contact with the ground surface. As soon as this connection between the support foot and the ground surface disappears the biasing device causes the support foot to snap back into alignment with the load bearing frame as shown.

Referring to a walking apparatus includes a lift mechanism coupled to a load bearing frame that supports a load to be moved. The lift mechanism is connected to a roller assembly that is positioned on a roller track . The roller assembly is moved relative to the roller track with one or more travel mechanisms . The roller track is coupled to a support foot with a rotation pin such as a king pin or other connection means that allows rotation of the roller track relative to the support foot as described in the rotation device application Ser. No. 13 711 193 cited above. A linking device is coupled between the support foot and the load bearing frame . A biasing device is connected to the linking device . As described above the biasing device becomes deflected or activated when the roller assembly moves in a non linear direction relative to the support foot . For example the roller track is oriented perpendicular to the orientation of the support foot in . As the roller assembly moves in the direction of the orientation of the roller track the roller assembly and the load bearing frame will also move substantially perpendicularly to the orientation of the support foot .

Here the movement of the roller assembly in this orientation does not activate or deflect the biasing device because the linking devices include joints that allow for the free movement of the roller assembly. The linking devices may be structured in this manner because the orientation of the support foot relative to the load bearing frame does not change.

This can also be seen when the roller assembly is moved parallel to the orientation direction of the support foot as shown in . Referring to a walking apparatus has just completed a load movement phase of a walking cycle where a roller track is oriented in the same direction as a support foot . Here the roller assembly was moved to the right along with the load bearing frame as shown. The joints of the linking device however allow the linking device to be angled from the linear movement without deflecting or otherwise activating the biasing device . During a recovery phase the load bearing frame is lowered and the support foot is raised above a base surface. The support foot can then be repositioned relative to the roller assembly by activation of the transport mechanism .

Some of the embodiments discussed above rely on the load bearing frame as a reference point to realign the support feet during non linear movements of the load. However in other embodiments other linking and biasing devices can be utilized to maintain alignment of the support feet. Some of these techniques are discussed below with respect to FIGS. and A E.

Here the linking devices include a first linking device A coupled between a first side of a first end of the first support foot and a first side of a first end of the second support foot and a second linking device B coupled between a second side of the first end of the first support foot and a second side of the first end of the second support foot. The placement of the first and second linking devices A B may ensure that the support feet are aligned together during a non linear movement.

Similarly the support foot of a third load transporting apparatus is connected to the support foot of a fourth load transporting apparatus with two biasing devices A and B. These biasing devices A B ensure that the third and fourth load transporting apparatuses are maintained in alignment with one another and the load bearing frame .

Although illustrates one example embodiment of biasing device connections that can maintain alignment of a support foot relative to a load bearing frame many different configuration variations exist. B C D and E are diagrams of walking apparatuses with various alignment restoration devices that illustrate some of these variations according to embodiments of the invention.

Referring to a linking device is connected between a first support foot of a first load transporting apparatus and a second support foot of a second load transporting apparatus . The linking device may be attached to the first support foot with a first joint and may be attached to the second support foot with a second joint . In some embodiments the first and second joints may be ball joints that allow rotational movement. The linking device may be rigid rod or may include a section of chain.

Referring to a linking device is connected between a first support foot of a first load transporting apparatus and a second support foot of a second load transporting apparatus . The linking device may be rigidly attached to the first support foot but may be attached to the second support foot with a first biasing device and a second biasing device . The first and second biasing devices may be placed on opposite sides of the linking device to provide a balanced system to return the support feet to uniform alignment after a non linear movement.

Referring to a first biasing device and a second biasing device are connected between a first support foot of a first load transporting apparatus and a second support foot of a second load transporting apparatus . This embodiment may be similar to the shown in except that the first and second biasing devices are specified as spring devices.

Referring to the support foot of a load transporting apparatus is connected to a load bearing frame via a first linking cylinder and a second linking cylinder . The first and second linking cylinders may be hydraulic cylinders that are activated during a recovery phase of a walking cycle to return the support foot to alignment with the load bearing frame . Alternatively the first and second linking cylinders may be spring cylinders that automatically return the support foot to alignment with the load bearing frame during a recovery phase of a walking cycle without additional operator input.

Referring to a support foot of a load transporting apparatus is connected at each corner to a biasing device . These biasing devices may ensure that the support foot is maintained in alignment with a load bearing frame during the recovery phase of a walking cycle by releasing potential energy stored during compression and or elongation during non linear movements.

Referring to a flow begins at process where the lift mechanism is activated to lower the support foot to a ground surface and raising a load supported by the load bearing frame. In process the travel mechanism is activated to displace the roller assembly connected to the lift mechanism relative to the support foot and ground surface thereby moving a position of the load. Depending on the movement of the travel mechanism relative to the support foot the position of the support foot may be aligned with the load bearing frame or may not be aligned with the load bearing frame. As discussed above when the load is moved in a direction perpendicular to the orientation of the support foot or moved parallel to the orientation of the support foot the support foot typically remains aligned with the load bearing frame. If the load is moved in a different direction relative to the support foot such as when the load is being steered in a non linear path the support foot can become misaligned with the load bearing frame. In process it is observed whether the resulting position of the support foot is aligned with the load bearing frame.

When the support foot remains aligned with the load bearing frame the flow proceeds to process where the lift mechanism is activated to lower the load and raise the support foot. However when the support foot is not aligned with load bearing frame the biasing device is deflected via the linking device as the load is displaced as shown in step . That is the biasing devices are deflected when movement of the roller assembly results in an angular displacement between a centerline of the support foot and an orientation of the load bearing frame. In process the lift mechanism is activated to lower the load and raise the support foot from the ground surface. As the support foot loses contact with the ground surface the deflected biasing device acts on the support foot to align the support foot with the load bearing frame as shown in step . That is the centerline of the support foot is automatically aligned relative to the orientation of the load bearing frame. After step or process the flow may include optional process where the lift mechanism is repositioned with respect to the support foot. If further walking steps are needed to move the load to a final position the flow may return to process to initiate another walking cycle.

As described above some embodiments of this invention are directed to a load transporting apparatus configured to move a load over a ground surface in one or more incremental steps each including a load movement phase and a recovery phase. To move the load the load transporting apparatus is coupled to a load bearing frame configured to support the load. The load transporting apparatus includes a first support foot structured to interface with the ground surface the first support foot having a length width and longitudinal centerline bisecting the width of the first support foot. The load transporting apparatus also includes a second support foot structured to interface with the ground surface the second support foot also having a length width and longitudinal centerline bisecting the width of the second support foot.

First and second roller tracks are respectively coupled to the first support foot and second support foot via a first king pin connector and a second king pin connector. Additionally first and second roller assemblies are respectively positioned on the first and second roller tracks. Each roller assembly includes a roller frame and one or more rollers set in the roller frame. First and second lift mechanisms are respectively coupled to the first and second roller assemblies. Each of the first and second lift mechanisms includes a lift cylinder connected to the load bearing frame and a cylinder rod where each of the first and second lift mechanisms are structured to lift the load bearing frame at the start of the load movement phase.

The load transporting apparatus also includes first and second travel mechanisms respectively coupled to the first and second roller assemblies. Each of the travel mechanisms are structured to move the respective roller assembly relative to the respective support foot during the load movement phase. A first linking device coupled to the first support foot and a second linking device coupled to the second foot. A first biasing device is connected to the first linking device where the first biasing device is structured to become activated during a load movement phase when the first roller assembly is non linearly displaced by the first travel mechanism relative to the first support foot and structured to return the first support foot to an aligned position relative to the load bearing frame during a recovery phase. A second biasing device is connected to the second linking device where the second biasing device is structured to become activated during a load movement phase when the second roller assembly is non linearly displaced by the second travel mechanism relative to the second support foot and structured to return the second support foot to an aligned position relative to the load bearing frame during a recovery phase.

In some embodiments the first linking device is coupled between the first support foot and the second support foot. In these embodiments the second linking device is also coupled between the first support foot and the second support foot as shown in for example. In other embodiments the first and second biasing devices are respectively coupled to the load bearing frame such as in for example.

Some embodiments of the invention have been described above and in addition some specific details are shown for purposes of illustrating the inventive principles. However numerous other arrangements may be devised in accordance with the inventive principles of this patent disclosure. Further well known processes have not been described in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Thus while the invention is described in conjunction with the specific embodiments illustrated in the drawings it is not limited to these embodiments or drawings. Rather the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents that come within the scope and spirit of the inventive principles set out herein.

