---

title: Methods and systems for robot cloud computing using slug trails
abstract: A method includes receiving a first request for a first robot to perform a first task and processing the first request through first and second computing resources to identify instructions for the first robot to perform the first task. The method also includes providing the one or more instructions to the first robot and identifying information associated with the second computing resource, wherein such information includes environmental information related to a location where the first task is to be performed. The method further includes associating the identified information with the first computing resource, receiving a second request for a second robot to perform a second task, processing the second request through the first computing resource, accessing the information associated with the first computing resource, and, based upon the accessed information, providing instructions to the second robot to perform the second task.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08886829&OS=08886829&RS=08886829
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08886829
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130520
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 463 469 filed on May 3 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 483 291 filed on May 6 2011 and 61 596 425 filed on Feb. 8 2012 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth in this application.

Cloud computing refers generally to the provision of computing resources via a computer network. Common shorthand used for a cloud computing service or an aggregation of existing cloud services is the cloud. In a traditional model of computing data and software are entirely contained in a user s device which may be a personal computer PC for example. In cloud computing however the user s device is configured to connect to computing resources via a computer network and consequently may contain relatively little hardware software or data. For example the user s device may include an operating system a network connection and a network interface application such as a web browser to provide access to the network of computing resources which may include for example servers processors hard drives memory applications etc. on the cloud. Thus the user s device may simply serve as an input device and or display terminal for processes occurring on the cloud.

Cloud computing may also free the user and the user s device from certain hardware and software installation and maintenance tasks due to applications being performed on computing resources residing in the cloud. Further devices connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of data and applications. This allows users to store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications remotely rather than physically carrying around a storage medium such as a DVD or thumb drive to access such data and or applications.

In one example a user s device may connect to a host of web servers that run user interface software that collects and interprets commands from the user. In response to the commands the servers may manage some or all of the necessary computing and can store or retrieve information from database or file servers and cause the user s device to display relevant information. Through cloud computing data across multiple servers distributed throughout various locations can be synchronized and allow for collaborative work on a project or task from any number of user devices connected to the cloud from any location.

In one example a method includes receiving a first request for a first robot to perform a first task and processing the first request through a first computing resource and a subsequent second computing resource to identify one or more instructions for the first robot to perform the first task. The first and second computing resources may be configured to communicate with a cloud computing system. The method also includes providing the one or more instructions to the first robot and identifying information associated with the second computing resource wherein the information may include environmental information related to a location where the first task is to be performed. Further the method includes associating the identified information with the first computing resource and receiving a second request for a second robot to perform a second task at the location where the first task is to be performed. In the present disclosure the first and second tasks can be performed at the same location at a similar general location or at different locations with some overlap between the different locations. In addition the method includes processing the second request through the first computing resource accessing the environmental information associated with the first computing resource and based upon the accessed information providing one or more instructions to the second robot to perform the second task.

In another example a method includes receiving a request for a robot to perform a task and processing the request along a processing route through a plurality of nodes of a cloud computing system to identify environmental information related to a location where the task is to be performed. The identified information is associated with one or more first nodes of the plurality of nodes. The method also includes associating the identified information with one or more second nodes of the plurality of nodes. The one or more second nodes are upstream from the one or more first nodes along the processing route.

In yet another example a system for controlling a client device includes a server device that is configured to receive a request for a client device to perform a task. The server device is configured to communicate with a cloud computing system. The system also includes first and second computing resource nodes configured to be coupled to the cloud computing system. The cloud computing system is configured to route the request through the first and second computing resource nodes to provide first and second instructions respectively for the client device to perform the task. The cloud computing system is also configured to identify information that is associated with the second computing resource node wherein the information includes data from one or more sensors coupled to the client device. Further the cloud computing system is configured to associate the identified information with the first computing resource node.

In a further example a method includes receiving a first request for a first robot to perform a first task at a location providing first instructions to the first robot for performing the first task at the location and receiving data associated with the location collected by the first robot while performing the first task at the location. The method also includes creating a slug trail associated with the first request. The slug trail is associated with at least some of the data collected by the first robot and the slug trail is active for a predetermined time frame. Further the method includes receiving a second request for a second robot to perform a second task at the location determining whether the slug trail is active and in response to determining that the slug trail is active sending second instructions to the second robot for performing the second task at the location. The second instructions are based at least in part on the data associated with the slug trail.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting to scope of the present disclosure. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments examples and features described above further aspects embodiments examples and features will become apparent by reference to the accompanying figures and the following detailed description.

The present disclosure is related generally to cloud computing over a computer network in which computing resources application execution data storage etc. may be divided to some extent between client and server devices.

Generally a client device is a device that requests access to a resource or service on the cloud and a server device is a device that is coupled to the cloud and provides the resource or service for the client device. In some instances a device connected to the cloud can function as both a client device and a server device. In one example the client device is configured as a robot that broadly includes a device that can be controlled to perform a task. The robot may be configured to interact with its surrounding environment utilizing a mechanical electrical and or electromechanical actuation capability. Alternatively or in conjunction the robot may include various sensors for detecting characteristics of an environment. In one example sensors are configured as modules that can be added or removed from the robot as needed or desired. In some examples a robot may be configured to receive a second device such as mobile phone or laptop which may be configured to function as a controller of the robot and to provide additional sensor or other device modules.

In some examples a robot may interact with the cloud to perform actions or commands such as to interact with the robot s environment and or to share information with other devices connected to the cloud. Within various examples a robot may interact with the cloud to facilitate object recognition and retrieval to perform an object mapping or inventorying function to perform voice recognition or command interpretation to perform navigational functions etc.

Still further in the present disclosure a plurality of robots can be connected to local and or remote computing resources on the cloud to share data instructions modules processing capabilities and the like. The computing resources accessible through the cloud can be shared between one or more client devices or robots on a near real time basis. Parts of the shared data and program logic may be dynamically delivered as needed or otherwise to various client devices connected to the cloud. Specific details of the cloud architecture may be transparent to users of client devices. Thus a PC user or robot client device that accesses an application through the cloud may not be aware that the PC or robot is downloading program logic and or data from the cloud or that the PC or robot is offloading processing or storage functions to the cloud for example.

Generally interactions between server and client devices follow slug trails or data processing routes that can be utilized to facilitate further interactions between the server and client devices. For example shared information can be associated with or cached along a slug trail and such shared information can be utilized to facilitate subsequent data processing for interactions that follow a similar slug trail. The shared information can include information that may be used to perform a task or function for example object recognition or object interaction and or information relating to an environment where a task it to be performed for example a map of an area including identified objects within the area. A slug trail may be indicative of previous requests to perform a task and matching responses or processing routes for the request. In general requests to perform similar tasks also share similarities in slug trails or processing routes of the request.

In a multi node system where a request for a robot to perform a task is routed through various nodes of a cloud system the request response can be cached so that future requests hit an answer sooner along the processing path or slug trail. Such nodes may include different computing resources different components within a single computing resource and or different processing steps executed to perform the task. In the present example information relevant to the task can be associated with nodes through which the request or command is routed. For example information that otherwise would be associated with downstream or high level nodes can be stored or otherwise made accessible to upstream or low level nodes such that the relevant information is encountered sooner in the path through which the command is routed. Such information can be taken into account during the processing of the command and the execution of the task. Further information that is relevant to a task can be collected and shared by a plurality of robots to improve the processing and execution of tasks.

For example if a robot is navigating through an area and notices that a hallway is blocked by a new obstacle the robot can publish an update on the command processing pathway or slug trail so that other robots are aware of the obstacle and other problems or constraints and may request an alternate pathway. Such update can be published or otherwise cached along the command processing pathway at one or more upstream nodes so that such information can be taken into account to proactively plan a route for another robot around the obstacle. Other illustrative examples of slug trails are described in more detail herein. Any interaction that the robot experiences can be published to the cloud and shared among many different robots. Specific locations may also trigger robots to download new information. For example when entering a new room data about the room may be downloaded that was collected by another robot.

Referring now to the figures illustrates a cloud based computing system according to one example. In the system includes a cloud . The cloud further includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . In other examples the cloud may include additional of fewer functional and or physical components. In addition the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may include other elements or components that are not specifically illustrated in . Generally one or more functional or physical components of the system may be divided into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. Delivery of cloud computing resources may involve multiple clouds or cloud components that communicate with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services or multi tier architectures for example.

Generally the cloud represents a networked architecture of computing resources and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices connected to the cloud. The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may provide applications used to access the cloud via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service applications for billing components of the cloud and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities of the cloud and may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform the infrastructure and client devices.

The system of includes a number of client devices that can be configured to communicate with the cloud and to each other by wired and or wireless communication connections . Of course additional or fewer client devices may communicate with the cloud . In some examples the devices are configured to collect and upload data to the cloud . The cloud may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the device . In another example the collected data can be uploaded to another local or remote device connected to the cloud for processing and analysis.

By way of non limiting examples the devices may include any type of general computing device such as a PC laptop computer tablet computer etc. and or any type of general mobile computing device such as a personal digital assistant global positioning system device cellular telephone smart phone portable gaming device etc. In addition the devices may include robot devices that generally may comprise a computing device that has connection capabilities to the cloud and that has an actuation capability such as mechanical electrical and or electromechanical capabilities. Generally the devices may include one or more of a display system memory input output components a network connection and a processor.

Further any of the client devices may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope or an accelerometer to measure movement of the device global positioning system GPS receivers optical sensors infrared sensors sonar biosensors radio frequency identification systems near field communication chips wireless network sensors compasses among others.

In addition any of the client devices may include an integrated user interface that allows a user to interact with the device. For example the devices may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input to the device. In another example the client device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore the devices may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of secondary devices to be connected thereto as will be described in more detail hereinafter.

In the communication connections between client devices and the cloud may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus. The communication connections may also be wireless links that utilize for example Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 which may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision and the like.

In other examples the system may include access points through which the client devices may communicate with the cloud . Access points may take various forms for example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a client device connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such the client devices may include a wired or wireless network interface through which the client devices can connect to the cloud or access points . As an example the client devices may be configured to use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore the client devices may be configured use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

Generally the processor may be configured to operate the device in accordance with an operating system program instructions and other data stored in the storage . In one example one or more of the operating system program instructions and other data or portions thereof can be stored on or otherwise accessible via the communication interface from a cloud such as the cloud of . The communication interface can be a wired and or wireless communication interface to access the cloud . A wired interface may include for example a parallel bus or a serial bus such as a Universal Serial Bus USB . A wireless interface may utilize for example Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 cellular such as GSM CDMA UMTS EV DO WiMAX or LTE or Zigbee among other possibilities.

The storage may also be configured to compile data from the one or more sensors of the device and the processor may be configured to interpret the data from the sensor s . Non limiting example sensors may include smoke sensors light sensors proximity sensors radio sensors infrared sensors microphones gyroscopes accelerometers cameras radar capacitive sensors touch sensors etc.

Further the processor may be configured to processes inputs from the I O device s and to control outputs to the I O device s . The I O devices may include for example a touch panel keypad mouse microphone speaker display panel and the like.

In one example the client device may be a robot that is controlled according to an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot. The robot operating system may provide libraries and tools such as hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management program instructions etc. to enable robot executable applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source or proprietary software such as ROS robot operating system DROS Dave s ROS ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system the robotic development platform ESRP from Evolution Robotics MRDS Microsoft Robotics Developer Studio ROSJAVA and the like. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement actuation of articulating arms legs grippers etc.

The client device may also include components or devices that allow the client device to interact with its environment. For example the client device may include one or more actuators such as motors wheels articulating grippers movable arms legs head etc. that enable the device to physically move or interact with objects in its environment.

In some examples various sensors and devices on the client device may be configured as modules. Such modules may be physical components coupled to the client device and or software or other programming instruction modules that are executed locally or remotely for the client device. Different modules may be added or removed from the client device depending on requirements of the client device. For example in a low power situation the device may have fewer modules to reduce power usages. In another example additional physical sensor or software modules may be added to increase an amount of data the device is able to collect.

In some examples the client device may be configured to communicate via a wired and or wireless connection to a computing device such as a device . The device can be considered a module and may include one or more of the processor the storage the sensors the communication interface and I O components . For example the client device can be a robot that has a number of actuators for example a movable base and articulating arms and grippers and the client device may be configured to receive the device for example a smartphone or laptop that is configured to control one or more components of the client device.

In one example the client device may be a relatively basic device without one or more of the sensors communication interface or I O components . In the present example the client device can be coupled to the device which can provide one or more of the sensors communication interface I O components and other components to the client device. The device can be a smartphone which provides an interactive display to control the client device . A smartphone can also provide additional peripheral components and sensing capabilities to the device such as a wired or wireless communication interface to the cloud processing capabilities communication capabilities of the phone an accelerometer gyroscope compass GPS camera a touch screen or other input device proximity sensor ambient light sensor etc. Thus a smartphone may enable the client device to communicate with the cloud and to download or otherwise access routines applications program instructions and other data from the cloud. For example a laundry folding routine may be stored on the cloud and a user may be able to select such routine using the device such as a smartphone to download the routine from the cloud onto the device. When the device is placed into or otherwise coupled to the client device the robot can be controlled to perform the downloaded routine.

As described above with respect to various client devices such as the client device may connect to the cloud with its network of computing resources. For example the client device may access data applications processing resources and the like from the cloud and other client devices connected to the cloud. Further the cloud may access data applications processing resources and the like from client devices connected to the cloud. The data from each client device in communication with the cloud can be complied into a larger data set that can be accessed by other devices connected to the cloud .

Illustratively the client device may include sensors that generally detect characteristics of the environment and actuators that generally provide motor control for the device. Outputs of the sensors such as camera feeds vision sensors microphones etc. may be provided to the cloud which can process the outputs to enable the device to perform functions. The cloud may process a camera feed for example to determine a location of a client device such as a robot to perform object recognition and or to identify or map a navigation pathway for the robot. In some embodiments the processing can be performed entirely by the cloud or can be divided between a client device and the cloud.

In another example the client device may take a picture of an object and upload the picture to the cloud . An object recognition application on the cloud may be configured to identify the object in the picture and to provide data to other robots connected to the cloud about the object. Such data about the object may include for example a location size weight and color of the object.

In yet another example one or more of the client devices of may be robots that can perform any number of actions with an area objects people other robots etc. In one example each robot has WiFi or other network based connectivity and can upload or publish data to the cloud that can then be shared with other robots. In this manner each robot shares experiences with other robots to enable learned behaviors. For example the robot may traverse a pathway and encounter an obstacle and can inform the other robots through the cloud of the location of the obstacle. Each robot can have access to such substantially real time data. In another example the robot can download data related to images captured by the other robots to help the robot identify the object using various images captured of the object from different perspectives.

In still another example the robot may build a map of an area and the robot can download the map to obtain information regarding the area. Similarly the robot can update the map created by the robot with new information about the area for example a hallway now has boxes or other obstacles or with new information collected from sensors that the robot may not have had for example the robot may record and add temperature data to the map if the robot did not have a temperature sensor. Overall the robots may be configured to share data that is collected to enable faster adaptation such that each robot can build upon a learned experience of a previous robot.

Sharing and adaptation capabilities enable a variety of applications based on a variety of inputs data received from the robots . In one example mapping of a physical location can be enabled to provide data regarding a history of where a robot has been. In another example environmental indicia or indicators may be recorded to facilitate mapping navigational functionality of the robots illustratively a scuff mark on a wall can be one of many cues that a robot may record and then rely upon later to orient itself.

In one example the cloud may include store or provide access to information related to objects stored in the database for example. The database may be accessible by all the robots . The database may include information relating to objects such as mass properties and shape that may be associated with the object. Such information can be accessed by the robots to perform object recognition for example. Further the information may include instructions for use of an object for example for a phone the instructions may include how to pick up a handset how to answer the phone location of buttons how to dial etc.

In addition the database may include information about objects that can be used to distinguish objects. For example the database may include general information regarding an object such as a computer and additionally information regarding a specific computer such as a model number operating system or other technical specifications of a specific model. Each object may include information in the database including an object name object details object distinguishing characteristics etc. In further examples the database may include a global unique identifier GUID for objects identified in the database to enable distinguishing between specific objects. The GUID may be associated with any characteristics or information describing the object. Thus a robot may be configured to access the database to receive information generally distinguishing objects such as a baseball and a computer and to receive information that may distinguish between specific objects such as two different computers.

More particularly the node in is a command processor node that is generally configured to process a command or request for a client device such as the robot to perform a task. Such command or request may be received through the robot or may be received through the cloud and assigned to the robot for execution. In various examples the command or request can be an audible command spoken by a user a manually initiated command entered by a user on an input device and or a command that is automatically generated based on a schedule or other triggering event. The command processor node is associated with the node which stores command data that may be relevant to processing and interpreting commands. For example the command data node may include speech recognition data to interpret audible commands and a task schedule for triggering an automatically generated command.

The node of is an algorithm identifier node that is generally configured to identify instructions and or processes that can be utilized to perform the task. The algorithm identifier node is associated with the node which stores algorithm data that may be relevant to identifying the algorithm. For example the algorithm data node may store a list of instructions and processes that can be executed by client devices and previously identified algorithms associated with particular commands.

In the present example the node is a planning node that is generally configured to plan schedule and or organize the instructions and or processes of the algorithm to perform the task. The planning node is associated with the node which stores planning data that may assist in the planning scheduling and or organizing.

The node is an application node that is configured to enable a robot to perform any of a number of applications such as a navigation application a mapping application an inventorying application an object recognition application an object use and or manipulation application etc. The application node is associated with the node which stores application data that can be used to perform the applications.

Further the node is an actuator controller node that is configured to control various actuators for example mechanical electrical and or electromechanical actuators of a client device. The actuator controller node is associated with the node which stores actuator data that can be utilized to control the actuators. For example the actuator data may include speed and force control data for actuators of a robot.

The node of is a sensor node that is configured to control various sensors of a robot to obtain environmental or other data for example. The sensor node is associated with the node which stores sensor data such as environmental or other data obtained by the sensors and or information to configure and obtain environmental or other data using the sensors.

Any of the nodes may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robots . The nodes may be implemented on a variety of devices including computing resources coupled to the cloud the robots themselves and other devices in communication with the cloud. Further the cloud of may include additional or fewer nodes as needed or desired. For example the various nodes may be combined into fewer nodes divided into additional nodes and or removed based upon a desired implementation.

Referring now to a flowchart is illustrated of a method that can be executed to process a command or request for a client device to perform a task in accordance with one example. The method of can be used with a cloud computing system such as the systems of respectively and any of the client devices of . The method may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks . Although the blocks are illustrated in a sequential order the blocks may also be performed in parallel and or in a different order than described herein. Also method may include additional or fewer blocks as needed or desired. For example the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed based upon a desired implementation.

In addition each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium or storage device including a disk or hard drive for example. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device. In addition one or more of the blocks may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions of the method .

In the method illustrated in the block processes a command or request for a client device such as one or more of the robots of to perform a task. Generally the block receives and interprets the command which can be performed with the nodes of for example. In one example the task may be an audible command from a user sitting in a living room of the user s home for the robot to retrieve a cold cola drink. In the present example the block may receive the audible command through a microphone system which may be incorporated in the robot or perhaps distributed throughout the user s home. The block may then process and interpret the audible command to identify the task of retrieving a cold cola drink.

Next control passes to the block and the command is routed or processed through one or more nodes of a cloud system to perform the task. Control also passes to the block to identify information relevant to the command. Generally the blocks define a processing path or slug trail of a command to perform a task and the block identifies relevant information that can be associated with the slug trail for use in processing subsequent requests.

Referring to for example the block can route the command through one or more of the nodes . Illustratively the command to retrieve a cold cola drink can be routed to the algorithm identifier node to identify general instructions and or processes to retrieve an object. The block can identify such general instructions which may be stored in the algorithm data node and may include for example instructions to move to an area where the object is located scan the area to identify the object control actuators to acquire the object and move to a delivery location for the object.

In the present example the block can route commands to the planning node to plan the execution of the instructions to perform the task of retrieving a cold cola drink. The block can access information in the planning data node to facilitate the planning. For example the planning data node may include data related to the locations of the robot the object and the delivery area. In the present example the object is a cold cola drink which is located in refrigerator in a kitchen and in a refrigerator in a garage of the user s home. The planning data node may include information related to distances between the robot the refrigerator in the kitchen the refrigerator in the garage and the delivery area to facilitate the planning of instructions to retrieve a cold cola drink. The data in the planning data node may also include first and second physical pathways that the robot can travel from its current location to the object and then to the delivery area.

The block can also route the command to the application node of . Generally the application node provides access to applications that can be used by the robot to perform the task for example a navigation application an object recognition application and an object manipulation application. Further the block can identify application data stored in the node to enable the robot to perform the task for example data to identify and manipulate a cold cola drink.

Further the block can route the command to the actuator controller node and the sensor node . The actuator controller node can be accessed to control actuators of the robot to traverse a pathway such as the first pathway discussed above with respect to the planning nodes and to manipulate actuators of the robot to open a refrigerator and retrieve the cola drink. The block can identify actuator data stored in the node that can generally be utilized to control the actuators. Further in the present example the block can route the command to the sensor node to control a temperature sensor on the robot to obtain data regarding the temperature of a cola drink in the refrigerator. The block can identify and store such temperature data in the sensor data node . In one example the temperature data from the sensor can be compared to other sensor data in the node to determine whether the cola drink is cold.

In the present example the block has been described as identifying information stored in a particular data node generally concurrently with routing the command to an associated node . Typically such information in the data nodes is relevant to the associated nodes . However such information may also be relevant to other nodes and perhaps useful if identified earlier in the routing of the command through the nodes.

In the block temporarily or permanently caches associates or stores such relevant information with one or more nodes through which the command is routed or processed. The relevant information can be time stamped and or cached for a predetermined period so that recent information that is most relevant can be identified and used to process subsequent requests or commands. The information cached by the block can be shared with other robots and client devices coupled to the cloud and can be particularly useful when later commands are being processed and routed in accordance with the method of for example. Such later commands can then encounter relevant information sooner in the command processing route or slug trail. Generally during the block information that is normally associated with downstream nodes can be cached with upstream nodes so that such information can be taken into account earlier in the processing of a subsequent command. In particular the subsequent command can be a command to perform a similar task or merely a command that shares a similar processing route or slug trail. Such information can also be shared with other robots and client devices that can communicate with the cloud to facilitate the processing and execution of subsequent commands.

In one example the block can identify information that is obtained through interactions that a robot experiences. Such interactions may occur for example as the robot is performing the task within an environment. Consequently during the blocks and the robot or other client device can be controlled to perform one or more processes to execute the task and such processes may involve interactions that generate new information that is relevant to the task. The block can cache such new information with one or more nodes through which the command is routed and processed. In the present example during the block the robot or other client device may also be controlled to automatically download new information relevant to the task. The automatic download of new information can be triggered for example by specific locations. Illustratively when a robot enters a new room information regarding the room may be retrieved wherein such information may have been previously collected by another robot or client device and or determined by the cloud based on data previously collected by another robot or client device.

In another example the block identifies environmental information related to a location where the task is to be performed. The environmental information may be stored in the sensor data node such as information that the cola drinks in the garage refrigerator are not cold. In this example the block can cache such information at the planning data node . The information that the cola drinks in the garage refrigerator are not cold can be time stamped or cached temporarily. When another command is issued within a given time period to retrieve a cold cola drink and the command is routed to the planning node and the planning data node the planning node can take into account the information and plan to instruct a robot to retrieve a cola drink from the kitchen refrigerator.

In a further example the sensor data node may include environmental information that a particular pathway is blocked by an obstruction. Similarly the block can cache such information at the planning data node so that subsequent commands will encounter the information and can plan accordingly.

In yet another example information related to a particular task may include restrictions on certain users from requesting a robot to perform the task. For example the information may be that an underage user cannot request the retrieval of an alcoholic beverage. In this example the block can cache the restriction information at the command data block where the restriction is identified along with the processing and interpretation of the command.

For example the computing resource nodes are generally identified as world country state city address and local environment respectively. Similarly the data storage nodes store data relevant to world country state city address and local environment nodes respectively. Generally the high level world node and the world data node provide instructions and data relevant to all robots and client devices configured to communicate with the cloud the country node and the country data node provide instructions and data relevant to robots and client devices configured to communicate with the cloud within a particular country and the state node and the state data node provide instructions and data relevant to robots and client devices configured to communicate with the cloud within a particular state. Similarly generally the city node and the city data node provide instructions and data relevant to robots and client devices configured to communicate with the cloud within a particular city the address node and the address data node provide instructions and data relevant to robots and client devices configured to communicate with the cloud within a particular address and the low level local environment node and the local environment data node provide instructions and data relevant to robots and client devices configured to communicate with the cloud within a particular local environment such as a particular room in a house or a particular unit in an office building. Other hierarchical arrangements of processing and corresponding data nodes could be implemented as well.

In the present example the nodes of can be implemented through the computing resource nodes . Generally each of the computing resources nodes can implement one or more of the nodes to control a client device such as the robots to perform a task.

Further the method of can be used with the system of to process a command or request for a client device to perform a task. In the example above of an audible command for a robot to retrieve a cold cola drink the block of receives and interprets the command. In the present example the robot may receive the audible command and the block may route the command through local computing resources such as through the local environment node or the address node of . The local environment node and the address node in the present example can be implemented as a server or computer at the user s home that is coupled to the cloud and configured to control one or more devices within the home.

In this example the nodes may not have the necessary instructions to interpret the audible command. Consequently the block routes the command a higher level node such as the world or country nodes to process and interpret the command. The block may identify the instructions to interpret the command in a higher level data node such as the world or country data nodes . After the command is interpreted the block can route the command through other higher level nodes such as the state or city nodes for further processing. For example the state node may implement the algorithm identifier node and the city node may implement the planning node and the application node . Along the way the block may identify relevant information and instructions in the data nodes for example. Thereafter the block can route the command back to the address and or local environment nodes to implement the actuator controller and sensor nodes and to control the robot to perform the task of retrieving a cold cola drink. The block may identify further information and instructions associated with any of the nodes .

The information identified by the block as the command is routed through the various nodes of can be cached associated or stored by the block along the route through which the command is routed. Referring more particularly to during the block information that is associated with a higher level node can be cached with a lower level or local node so that such information can be taken into account earlier in the processing of a subsequent command.

In one non limiting example the block can cache information related to the world node and the world data node at a lower level node such as the address nodes and or the local environment nodes . Such information may include for example instructions for interpreting an audible command. Likewise information related to identifying algorithms planning applications actuator controllers and sensors which may be associated with higher level nodes can be associated with or cached at lower level nodes such that the processing of subsequent commands can be performed more locally to the execution of the task.

Any of the nodes may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robots . The nodes may be implemented on a variety of devices including computing resources coupled to the cloud the robots themselves and other devices in communication with the cloud. Further the cloud may include additional or fewer nodes as needed or desired and the various nodes may be combined into fewer nodes divided into additional nodes and or removed based upon a desired implementation.

The above detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems devices and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments can be utilized and other changes can be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

