---

title: Layout re-decomposition for multiple patterning layouts
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and systems for layout re-decomposition of a new layout corresponding to a change order to an original layout associated with an integrated circuit are provided. The change order is applied to the original layout to create the new layout. The original layout comprises one or more original pattern portions assigned pattern colors that correspond to pattern masks. One or more new pattern portions within the new layout are assigned pattern colors such that the new layout has a relatively high color similarity with respect to the original layout. In this way, changes to the pattern masks are reduced, thus mitigating fabrication delay or costs that would otherwise result from significant changes to the pattern masks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08914755&OS=08914755&RS=08914755
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 08914755
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20130528
---
Electronic design tools allow designers to layout simulate and analyze integrated circuits. For example an application specific integrated circuit design flow comprises a logic synthesis phase a component placement phase a routing phase for interconnecting components a layout extraction phase timing verification etc. Due to the relatively small size of integrated circuits various physical constraints such as size constraints spacing constraints or other constraints can restrict design layout of integrated circuits. To overcome some of these issues multiple pattern masks are created for separately fabricating components onto an integrated circuit. For example a multiple patterning layout comprises a first pattern mask used to fabricate a first set of components onto the integrated circuit. The multiple patterning layout comprises a second pattern mask used to fabricate a second set of components onto the integrated circuit. In this way one or more components within the first set of components can be placed relatively close to one or more components within the second set of components without being limited by physical spacing constraints between components of a single pattern mask. A change order such as an engineering change order can be used to modify the design layout for the integrated circuit before creation of the pattern masks or after creation of the pattern masks. The change order can result in relatively significant pattern mask changes where components are reassigned from a pattern mask to a different pattern mask thus causing fabrication delays or other issues.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One or more techniques and systems for layout re decomposition are provided herein. That is an original layout comprises a design layout for an integrated circuit e.g. before a change order . The original layout can be decomposed into one or more pattern masks by assigning pattern portions to respective pattern masks. In this way the one or more pattern masks are physically created and used during fabrication to form one or more components such as wires transistors logic cells or other components on the integrated circuit. A pattern color corresponds to an identifier used to associate a pattern portion such as a polygon representing a component of the integrated circuit or portion thereof with a particular pattern mask. For example a first pattern color is assigned to one or more first polygons to be formed using a first pattern mask a second pattern color is assigned to one or more second polygons to be formed using a second pattern mask etc. In this way the integrated circuit is fabricated through a multiple patterning layout process. A change order such as an engineering change order can be specified for the original layout. The change order is used to modify the design layout of the integrated circuit. For example the change order is used to insert logic changes into a netlist associated with the original layout. Before physical fabrication of pattern masks the change order can be used to make changes by applying incremental change operations that can mitigate time consumption by avoiding a full application specific integrated circuit design flow. After physical fabrication of pattern masks the change order can be used to reduce costs by utilizing unused logic gates within the original layout which can reduce an amount of pattern mask changes.

As provided herein layout re decomposition assigns pattern colors to a new layout e.g. corresponding to a change order to an original layout such that the new layout has relatively high color similarity with respect to the original layout. The relatively high color similarity reduces the amount of pattern mask changes which can mitigate cost or delay during fabrication from the change order. In particular a pattern layout correlation between the original layout and the new layout is defined. Because the change order can add remove or modify pattern portions to the original layout the pattern layout correlation provides an indication of variations between the original and the new layout. A relatively high pattern layout correlation indicates little variation between the original layout and the new layout. A relatively low pattern layout correlation indicates that a greater variation between the original layout and the new layout.

Pattern color similarity is defined between the original layout and the new layout. Because it is advantageous to increase color similarity between the original layout and the new layout e.g. increased color similarity results in less pattern mask changes which can reduce costs or delay during fabrication that would otherwise occur from such changes pattern color similarity is taken into account when assigning pattern colors to new pattern portions within the new layout. In this way pattern colors are assigned in a color similarity aware manner to the new layout based upon the pattern layout correlation and the pattern color similarity.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects can be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A method of layout re decomposition according to some embodiments is illustrated in . An original layout corresponds to a design layout for an integrated circuit such as a multiple patterning layout or a self aligned multiple patterning layout. The original layout comprises one or more original pattern portions such as polygons representing wires devices or other components that are decomposed e.g. colored into one or more pattern masks. For example a first pattern color is assigned to a first set of original pattern portions to be formed by a first pattern mask a second pattern color is assigned to a second set of original pattern portions to be formed by a second pattern mask etc. The change order is used to modify the original layout. For example the change order can add remove or modify pattern portions from the original layout to create the new layout. In some embodiments even a relatively minor change order can result is a relatively extensive change to pattern color assignments. Such changes to pattern color assignments can result in significant pattern mask changes and thus result in additional fabrication costs or delays. For example an addition of a single pattern portion can result in numerous pattern portions being re assigned to a different pattern color during decomposition of the new layout. Accordingly as provided herein the new layout is decomposed such as assigned pattern colors in a manner that increases color similarity between the original layout and the new layout. The change order can be implemented before mask creation of pattern masks or after mask creation of the pattern masks.

At a pattern layout correlation is defined between the original layout and the new layout. In some embodiments a first pattern layout correlation is calculated based upon an overlapping area factor. The overlapping area factor corresponds to a positional correlation of an original pattern portion within the original layout and a new pattern portion within the new layout. For example the first pattern layout correlation indicates a relatively high correlation between the original pattern portion and the new pattern portion where such portions occupy similar areas or have similar positions. In an example the overlapping area factor is defined by 

At pattern color similarity is defined between the original layout and the new layout. The pattern color similarity is used to determine how to assign pattern colors to new pattern portions within the new layout such that the new layout has a relatively similar color assignment with respect to the original layout thus mitigating pattern mask changes. In some embodiments a bipartite graph is generated for defining the pattern color similarity. The bipartite graph comprises a first set of nodes representing new pattern portions within the new layout. For example a first node within the first set of nodes represents a first new pattern portion. The bipartite graph comprises a second set of nodes representing original pattern portions within the original layout. For example a first node within the second set of nodes represent a first original pattern portion. A bipartite matching technique is used to match respective nodes within the first set of nodes to respective nodes within the second set of nodes based upon pattern similarity as defined by the pattern layout correlation. In an example respective nodes within the first set of nodes representing new pattern portions are connected to one or more nodes within the second set of nodes representing original pattern portions utilizing one or more edges. For example a first edge connects a first node representing a first new pattern portion and a second node representing a first original pattern portion. The first edge generally comprises a cost metric. The cost metric corresponds to a difference in pattern color between the first original pattern portion and a potential color pattern for the first new pattern portion.

In some embodiments pattern color similarity is defined as Sc Rij ci cj where Sc is pattern color similarity between the original layout and the new layout cis a potential pattern color for a new pattern portion within the new layout cis a pattern color of an original pattern portion within the original layout Ris pattern layout correlation between the new pattern portion and the original pattern portion and c cis a cost to assign cto the new pattern portion. In an example a cost of 0 is assigned when there is no color difference between the pattern color of the original pattern portion and the potential pattern color for the new pattern. In another example a cost greater than 0 is assigned where there is a different in pattern color.

In some embodiments a network flow is generated based upon the bipartite graph. The network flow is utilized to assign one or more pattern colors to the new layout. For example the network flow is evaluated according to a max flow approach such that edges within the network flow are traversed in a manner that reduces color dissimilarity between the original layout and the new layout e.g. traversing least cost edges . It is appreciated that a variety of techniques other than bipartite graphs or network flows can be used to identify similarity in color between the original layout and the new layout.

At one or more pattern colors are assigned to the new layout based upon the pattern layout correlation and the pattern color similarity such as by evaluating the bipartite graph or the network flow. For example a first pattern color is assigned to a first set of new pattern portions such that the first set of new pattern portions are assigned to a first pattern mask a second pattern color is assigned to a second set of new pattern portions such that the second set of new pattern portions are assigned to a second pattern mask etc. In some embodiments the first pattern color but not the second pattern color is assigned to a first new pattern portion based upon the assignment of the first pattern color resulting in an increased layout coloring similarity for the new layout with respect to the original layout.

In some embodiments a conflict graph is constructed. The conflict graph is used to identify pattern portions that are too close to one another such that the pattern portions cannot be fabricated using a single mask due to limitations associated with optical lithography. Accordingly if first and second pattern portions are too close to one another e.g. violate a threshold spacing distance requirement then the first pattern portion is fabricated using a first mask while the second pattern portion is fabricated using a second pattern mask. Accordingly in the conflict graph an edge is inserted between a first node representing the first pattern portion and a second node representing the second pattern portion where the edge indicates that the first node and the second node cannot be assigned to the same pattern mask. Once edges are inserted into the conflict graph pattern groups not connected by edge are identified and colors are assigned to such pattern groups based upon costs. In an example the conflict graph is indicative of coloring assignments that would result in a conflict such as a violation of a size constraint spacing constraint or other constraint. A set of pattern groups within the new layout are identified based upon the conflict graph. For example a first pattern group comprises one or more pattern portions within a threshold distance of one another without resulting in a conflict. For respective pattern groups within the set of pattern groups costs are assigned to potential color schemes for a current pattern group. A potential color scheme having a cost below a cost threshold is selected as an assignment color scheme comprising one or more pattern colors for assignment to respective new pattern portions within the current pattern group. In this way one or more pattern colors are assigned to the new layout in a manner that increases color similarity between the new layout and the original layout which can mitigate pattern mask changes that would otherwise result in fabrication cost increases or delays.

In an example the change order modifies the first region by inserting a new pattern portion such as a ninth new pattern portion into the original layout to create a new first region within a new layout . The new first region comprises a first new pattern portion a second new pattern portion a third new pattern portion a fourth new pattern portion a fifth original new portion a sixth new pattern portion a seventh new pattern portion an eighth new pattern portion and the ninth new pattern portion . As provided herein one or more pattern colors are assigned to new pattern portions within the new layout in a manner that increases color similarity between the new layout and the original layout . Such color similarity can mitigate pattern mask changes that can otherwise result in fabrication delays or increased costs.

In an example the pattern correlation component determines that there are relatively high correlations e.g. a correlation of 1 indicating a one to one matching between the first original pattern portion and the first new pattern portion the second original pattern portion and the second new pattern portion the third original pattern portion and the third new pattern portion the fourth original pattern portion and the fourth new pattern portion the fifth original pattern portion and the fifth new pattern portion the sixth original pattern portion and the sixth new pattern portion the seventh original pattern portion and the seventh new pattern portion and the eighth original pattern portion and the eighth new pattern portion . For example the overlapping area factor indicates that such correlation pairs share similar positions between the original layout and the new layout . In another example the pattern correlation component determines that there are relatively moderate correlations e.g. a correlation of 0.3 or 0.4 between the seventh original pattern portion and the ninth new pattern portion and between the eighth original pattern portion and the ninth new pattern portion . In another example the pattern correlation component determines that there are relatively low correlations e.g. a correlation of 0.2 or below between remaining correlation pairs. For example the first original pattern portion has a negligible correlation of 0.1 with respect to the second pattern portion based upon a relatively low positional proximity. In this way the pattern correlation component defines the pattern layout correlation . The pattern layout correlation can be evaluated to determine which original pattern portions and new pattern portions are correlated.

The color similarity component can perform a bipartite matching technique such as a max bipartite matching technique to connect nodes from the first set of nodes to nodes within the second set of nodes . The color similarity component is configured to create one or more edges between the first set of nodes and the second set of nodes based upon color pattern layout correlation between nodes as defined by the pattern layout correlation . For example a first edge is created between the first node and the tenth node based upon the first new pattern portion having a relatively high correlation to the first original pattern portion . A second edge is created between the first node and the eleventh node based upon a relatively low or moderate correlation between the first new pattern portion and the second original pattern portion . In this way one or more edges are created based upon varying degrees of correlation e.g. illustrated by thickness of such edges where thicker edges correspond to higher correlations such as a third edge between the second node and the eleventh node a fourth edge between the eighth node and the seventeenth node a fifth edge between the ninth node and the seventeenth node or other edges.

In some embodiments the color similarity component defines pattern color similarity as Sc Rij ci cj where Sc is pattern color similarity between the original layout and the new layout cis a potential pattern color for a new pattern portion within the new layout cis a pattern color of an original pattern portion within the original layout Ris pattern layout correlation between the new pattern portion and the original pattern portion and c cis a cost to assign cto the new pattern portion such as a cost of 0 where there is no difference in pattern color and a cost greater than 0 where there is a difference in pattern color. In some embodiments the color similarity component generates a network flow from the bipartite graph as illustrated in .

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for implementing a change order between an original layout and a new layout associated with an integrated circuit is provided. The method comprises defining a pattern layout correlation between the original layout and the new layout. The new layout corresponds to the change order as applied to the original layout. A pattern color similarity between the original layout and the new layout is defined. One or more pattern colors are assigned to the new layout based upon the pattern layout correlation and the pattern color similarity. In an example a first pattern color corresponds to a first pattern mask used to fabricate a first portion the integrated circuit. A second pattern color corresponds to a second pattern mask used to fabricate a second portion of the integrated circuit.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for implementing a change order between an original layout and a new layout associated with an integrated circuit is provided. The system comprises a pattern correlation component configured to define a pattern layout correlation between the original layout and the new layout. The new layout corresponds to the change order as applied to the original layout. The system comprises a color similarity component configured to generate a bipartite graph comprising a first set of nodes representing new pattern portions within the new layout and a second set of nodes representing original pattern portions within the original layout. A bipartite matching technique is performed upon the bipartite graph to define a pattern color similarity between the original layout and the new layout. The system comprises a decomposition component configured to assign one or more pattern colors to the new layout based upon the pattern layout correlation and the pattern color similarity.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a computer readable medium comprising instructions that perform a method for implementing a change order between an original layout and a new layout associated with an integrated circuit is provided. The method comprises defining a pattern layout correlation between the original layout and the new layout. The new layout corresponds to a change order as applied the original layout. A pattern color similarity is defined between the original layout and the new layout. A first pattern color is identified for assignment to a new pattern portion within the new layout based upon the pattern layout correlation and the pattern color similarity. The first pattern color but not a second pattern color is assigned to the new pattern portion based upon the assignment of the first pattern color resulting in an increased layout coloring similarity for the new layout with respect to the original layout.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components reside within a process or thread of execution in some embodiments. A component is localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers in some embodiments.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

Device includes communication connection s in some embodiments that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s includes but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s includes a wired connection or a wireless connection in some embodiments. Communication connection s transmits and or receives communication media in some embodiments.

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

Components of computing device are connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 13104 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device are interconnected by a network. For example memory is comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions are distributed across a network in some embodiments. For example a computing device accessible via a network stores computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device accesses computing device and downloads a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device downloads pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions are executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

It will be appreciated that layers features elements etc. depicted herein are illustrated with particular dimensions relative to one another such as structural dimensions and or orientations for example for purposes of simplicity and ease of understanding and that actual dimensions of the same differ substantially from that illustrated herein in some embodiments.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising . Also unless specified otherwise first second or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first channel and a second channel generally correspond to channel A and channel B or two different or two identical channels or the same channel.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure could have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature can be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

