---

title: Methods and apparatus to provide contact management with directory assistance
abstract: Methods and an apparatus for providing contact management with directory assistance. An example method includes obtaining, via a processor, a billing record generated to track usage of a directory assistance service by a caller, the billing record comprising a first data object conveyed to the caller in association with the usage of the directory assistance service; querying, via the processor, a first directory with the first data object of the billing record to obtain listing information associated with the first data object; and conveying a contact record including the obtained listing information to a device associated with the caller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09270821&OS=09270821&RS=09270821
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09270821
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130612
---
This patent arises from a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 553 781 filed Oct. 27 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 483 381 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to contact management and more particularly to methods and apparatus for providing contact management with directory assistance.

When using communications systems individual users are generally interconnected via user devices that are associated with a unique identifier to enable communication among multiple nodes within the communication systems. For example in a telecommunication system the identifier is commonly referred to as a telephone number which is dialed or inputted with an originating user device to reach a user device e.g. a telephone at a particular network termination point associated with the identifier. Given the enormous number of user devices and users within communications systems each user may desire to retain these identifiers in an accessible medium such as an electronic address book. Electronic address books may be networked to allow accessibility from a plurality of user devices or transferred to store in local memory of a user device. Electronic address books are commonly formatted in a data structure relating one or more records with varying information such as addresses names etc.

Directory assistance services are commonly used in communication systems to provide listing information to communication systems users. Generally directory assistance services use a directory or a database containing names addresses and telephone numbers for respective users. For example in the North American public switched telephone network a user desiring particular listing information dials a directory assistance access code for example 411 and connects with a directory assistance service. The user generally provides listing information such as a name e.g. business name surname etc. and or locality information e.g. zip codes state names cities etc. associated with a desired listing record. If the directory assistance service matches the listing information to a particular listing record a human operator or a recorded message file communicates additional listing information e.g. a telephone number associated with the particular listing record to the user. However to use the requested telephone number in the future the user must memorize the listing information manually record the listing information or call back to the directory assistance service.

After the directory assistance service communicates the additional listing information to the user the directory assistance service creates a billing feed to charge a particular user for the service. This billing feed may include a phone number or any other unique account identifier for the user and the phone number provided for the matched listing. Generally this billing feed is sent to a customer records information system CRIS which bills and records the directory service usage.

An example communication system to provide directory assistance with contact management for users of the example system is illustrated in . The example system of is useful to provide directory assistance with contact management among diverse user devices e.g. analog phones digital phones voice over Internet Protocol VoIP phones cellular phones personal computers personal digital assistants PDAs MP3 players set top boxes STBs etc. . Additionally the example system of is useful to provide contact management among many users each of whom may be associated with one or more user device s .

The example communication system is configured to provide contact management by storing listing information associated with the use of a directory assistance DA service to a network device e.g. a database server a file server etc. that can be accessed or transferred among a plurality of user devices. For example a directory service provider may include an automated system or human operator that responds to a user who places a telephone call. The user may then request a telephone number by providing particular listing information e.g. city name state name business name surname etc. associated with the telephone number. The example automated system or human operator then queries one or more directories or databases to match the provided listing information with a telephone number. When a match is determined the example automated system or human operator provides the requested telephone number with any other listing information to the user.

As described below the listing information provided to the user e.g. a telephone number and other associated listing information e.g. mailing address city name state etc. can be stored as a contact record and associated with the user in a network device e.g. a database server a file server a network address book etc. . In one example embodiment the example communication system determines additional listing information with an example reverse lookup function using one or more data objects e.g. a telephone number from a billing record generated from the usage of the directory assistance service. In an additional example embodiment the example communication system is configured to transfer this stored information from the network device to one or more user devices associated with a particular user on an aperiodic basis e.g. based on event based procedure s etc. or a periodic basis e.g. based on scheduled procedure s etc. .

Turning to the example communication system is shown as a simplified block diagram with components of hardwired and or wireless communications networks and . also shows the interaction between user devices and associated with a particular user an operator position a directory a directory assistance DA management system and a contact directory . The example communication system is illustratively shown with the network configured as an example public switched telephone network which communicatively couple the user with the operator position through user devices and switches and and communication links and . As is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art the example network may be configured as any network that enables voice and or data communication among user s and a directory assistance service such as wireless mobile telephone networks VoIP networks etc.

The example communication system is also shown with the network which may be implemented as one or more networks e.g. local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks the Internet digital subscriber line DSL networks cable networks power line networks wireless communication networks wireless mobile telephone networks wireless fidelity Wi Fi networks and or satellite networks . The network is shown with data links and which communicatively couple the contact directory SSP and user devices and . The data links may employ applications protocols networks and or hardware to communicatively couple each of the user devices including for example hardwired or wireless communication schemes. For example the user device may be implemented with a personal computer or set top box that communicatively couples with the contact directory and data link via the Internet to exchange data using a common markup language such as HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML etc. Additionally or alternatively the user device may be implemented with a mobile phone that communicatively couples with the contact directory and data link via a Wireless Application Protocol and a Wireless Markup Language.

As shown each of the communication links and is coupled with a terminating user device and which may include PDAs cellular telephones personal computers television set top boxes and telephone e.g. an analog telephone a digital telephone a VoIP telephone or any other user device that enables voice and or data communication over the public switched telephone network . Similarly the additional network is shown coupled with terminating devices and which may include PDAs cellular telephones personal computers television set top boxes and telephone e.g. an analog telephone a digital telephone a VoIP telephone routers switches or any other device that enables voice and or data communication over the network .

In the example communication system each of the example user devices has one or more unique device identifiers to distinguish the respective example user devices from one another as well as from other user devices thereby enabling communication between multiple nodes on the network. A device identifier may generally identify a network termination point that connects to one or more user devices e.g. a telephone number may connect a number of telephones . The device identifier associated with a user device may be a unique alpha numeric or numeric identifier e.g. a telephone number a byte address an Internet Protocol IP Address a Mobile Identification Number etc. . For example each of the user devices and coupled with the PSTN may be assigned a ten digit number that is associated with a specific telephone line and shown in . To identify one or more user devices e.g. the user devices with a particular user e.g. the user the device identifiers may be associated with a single record in a data structure. As described below the record may then be uniquely distinguished and associated with a particular user by a user identifier such as a user name a user number and or any other unique identifier. Also described below one or more user devices and device identifiers may be associated with multiple users and thus multiple records in a data structure such as a telephone service and telephone number may be shared with multiple users.

The PSTN incorporates the advanced intelligent network AIN . Some of the components of the advanced intelligent network are shown in to illustrate at least a part of the advanced intelligent network AIN of a typical local exchange carrier. The advanced intelligent network AIN uses the signaling system 7 SS7 network for signal or system control message transport. The components thereof are well known to those skilled in the art. Generally a plurality of central offices is provided in a typical public switched telephone network . As shown in a central office may include an electronic switch known to those skilled in the art as a service switching point SSP . The number of SSP switches depends on the number of users to be served by the public switched telephone network. An SSP is the AIN component of a typical electronic central office switch used by a local exchange carrier. The terms SSP and switch are generally used interchangeably and are understood to refer to a telecommunications switch having AIN capability and which may be utilized for connecting communication links or trunk circuits .

Much of the intelligence and the basis for many of the enhanced features of the PSTN resides in the local service control point SCP that is coupled to signal transfer point STP and the SSP via SS7 data links and . Among the functions performed by the service control points is maintenance of network databases used in providing enhanced services. Service control points such as SCP normally implement high volume routing services such as call forwarding number translating and routing. In most local exchange carrier networks service control points are only used for database look up and routing services that take place prior to the logical completion of the call i.e. the provision of a ringing signal to the called user and ring back to the calling user .

Directory assistance is a well known service in public switched telephone network and is generally identified in North America with a telephone number such as 411 or 555 1212. Directory assistance as discussed herein may also be configured on the networks as discussed above in connection with network of in the example communication system of .

To provide directory assistance services the PSTN of includes a switch that is coupled with an operator position through the data link . The switch is shown as an example Traffic Operator Position System TOPS switch to provide call routing and switching along with directory assistance services. In the PSTN the user may dial a particular telephone number on the user device which is routed via the SSP and the TOPS switch to communicatively couple the user with hardware software and or firmware used by a human operator at the operator position . Similarly the user may be routed to a voice activated system not shown configured with hardware software and or firmware to provide directory assistance via text to speech TTS or speech recognition systems. An example operator position is discussed in detail below in connection with .

The example communication system also includes directory server s that can be queried to obtain listing information via the data links and which communicatively couple the directory server s with the operator position and the DA management system . The data links and may employ applications protocols networks and or hardware including for example hardwired or wireless Ethernet communication scheme which is well known and thus is not described in greater detail herein. The directory server s include one or more data structures including listing information such as telephone numbers first and last names business names business descriptions email addresses mailing addresses etc. The directory server s may be implemented using for example a look up table a relational database or any other suitable structure for storing data. Similarly the directory server s may comprise removable media disk drives hard disk drives network drives and or any other suitable storage devices. As discussed above a human operator or voice activated system at the operator position performs a query on the directory server s which may include matching particular listing information such as names e.g. person and or business names and localities e.g. cities states zip codes etc. .

Also illustratively shown in the example communication system is a directory assistance management system that provides contact management for users of DA services e.g. the example user administers billing for the usage of DA services and or supports any other service to monitor and manage the usage of DA services within the PSTN of . As discussed in detail below in connection with the directory assistance management system may include servers such as for example application servers database servers file servers etc. Additionally the directory assistance management system may contain a variety of databases such as for example mainframe databases client server databases and or any other electronic store of data supported on any memory device e.g. removable media disk drives hard disk drives network drives . The DA management system is shown coupled with the TOPS switch the directory server s and the contact directory via the data links and . The data links may employ applications protocols networks and or hardware including for example hardwired or wireless Ethernet communication scheme which is well known and thus is not described in greater detail herein.

The example communication system also includes a contact directory which is discussed in detail below in connection with . As discussed below the contact directory is configured such that the user and the DA management system can obtain existing contact information from and or provide new contact information to the contact directory . The contact directory includes one or more data structures including contact records for a particular user which may contain information such as telephone numbers first and last names business names business descriptions email addresses mailing addresses and or navigational coordinates. Additionally the contact directory may contain other individually customizable fields that can be configured to store electronic information relating to a particular person and or business. The contact directory may be implemented using for example a look up table a relational database or any other suitable structure for storing data. Similarly the contact directory may comprise removable media disk drives hard disk drives network drives and or any other suitable storage devices. As previously discussed the contact directory is coupled with the network and the DA management system via the data links and .

For example the user table contains an example record associated with the example user of that includes USER110 in the user name field 555 555 1000 e.g. the phone number associated with the phone in the account identifier field and USER110PASSWORD in the password field . The contact table is shown with an example contact record associated with the example user of that includes USER110A in the contact identifier field JEAN in the first name field DOE in the last name field 123 FOURTH ST in the mailing address field MADISON in the city field FL in the state field 32340 in the zip code field and 850 555 1000 in the telephone number field . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will understand that such textual descriptions can also be implemented by codes and or other designations. The contact table is also shown with an unpopulated contact record which is discussed in detail below. Additionally or alternatively the listing information associated with a contact record in the example contact directory data structure may include multiple telephone numbers email addresses business names business descriptions navigational coordinates or other individually customizable fields not shown . As explained below a user e.g. user of associated with a particular contact record e.g. the contact records and of can write additional information to the example contact directory data structure which may not be available as listing information e.g. private contact information .

Thus the DA processor of queries the directory server s of to determine respective matches with the entered string objects via for example an application programming interface API that enables queries and or data exchanges between the DA processor of and the directory server s of step . The query of the directory server of may be implemented as a lookup function which is generally associated with directories to enable a query of a known a name and or locality of a person or business to whom a telephone number is registered which then retrieves the telephone number. The directory server s of analyzes for example the listing records and in this instance the respective last name fields and zip code fields to determine matching listing information. In this example a match for the listing record is determined from the matching last name of DOE and zip code of 04441 in the respective fields and . Thus the directory server s of returns some or all of the listing information from fields associated with listing record e.g. first name of JACK mailing address of 123 THIRD ST city name of GREENVILLE state name of ME and or telephone number of 207 555 1000 to the DA processor of step . Although this example provides an exact match of listing information the directory server s of may provide sequential string matching algorithms as near matching e.g. matching a number of characters or sequence of characters within a string and index matching e.g. ranking a subset of characters or sequence of characters within a string or any such current or future string matching algorithms.

The DA processor of then sends the returned listing information to one or more of the I O devices to audibly textually or visually communicate the listing information for the human operator and or the user step . For example the human operator may communicate the matched listing information e.g. the telephone number of 207 555 1000 to the user of and or offer to directly connect the user of . The operator may also perform several additional queries with new or modified listing information communicated from the user. When the example communication between the user of and the operator position of completes the DA processor of creates a directory assistance service record to register the usage of the DA service by the example user of . In particular the DA processor of generates a directory assistance service record to register for example the telephone number of 555 555 1000 associated with the user device of and the telephone number of 207 555 1000 from the matching listing record of . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the directory assistance service record may include textual or other data objects to register the use of directory assistance. Also the directory assistance service records may include any syntactical language capable of describing and structuring data objects such as for example extensible markup language XML HyperText Markup Language HTML character delimited string etc.

The DA processor of sends the directory assistance service record from the example operator position of via the TOPS switch of to the example DA management system of and more particularly the DASR parser of step . The DASR parser of then duplicates the information from the directory assistance service record to simultaneously execute multiple tasks. For example the DASR parser of passes one or more data objects from the directory assistance service record to the CRIS of to update a particular user account in a financial accounting system e.g. debit the accrued expense account associated with user of to reflect the usage of directory assistance step . The DASR parser of also passes one or more data objects from the directory assistance service record e.g. the telephone number of 555 555 1000 associated with the telephone of to the contact directory processor of step .

The contact directory processor of then queries the contact directory of to determine if user of has an associated user record in the contact directory of step . For example the contact directory processor of sends the string of 555 555 1000 to the contact directory of which analyzes the user records and in particular the account identifier field to determine a match for a record associated with the example user of . In this example a match for the user record is determined which identifies one or more records associated with user of e.g. the contact records and of . The contact directory of then returns a logic value or other such signifier to the contact directory processor of to identify an associated user record for example the username USER110 or the contact identifier USER110B for the user of step . Alternatively the contact directory may return a Boolean value such as for example a false signifier e.g. 0 for no determined match or a true signifier e.g. 1 for a determined match.

Although this example provides an exact match of the account identifier field the contact directory of may provide sequential string matching algorithms as near matching e.g. matching a number of characters or sequence of characters within a string and index matching e.g. ranking a subset of characters or sequence of characters within a string or any such current or future string matching algorithms. Also the contact directory processor of may query the contact directory of with any syntactical language capable of describing and structuring data objects from a directory assistance service record such as for example extensible markup language XML HyperText Markup Language HTML or any other such markup language or character delimited string.

The contact directory processor of also uses one or more data objects from the directory assistance service record e.g. the telephone number of 207 555 1000 associated with the matching listing record of to query the directory server s of step . The query of the contact directory processor of may be implemented as a reverse lookup function which is generally associated with directories to enable a query with a known telephone number which then retrieves a name and or address of a person or business to whom the telephone number is registered. The directory server s of analyze for example the listing records and in this instance the telephone number field of to determine matching listing information. In this example a match for the listing record is determined from the string of 207 555 1000 in the telephone number field . Thus the directory server s of returns some or all of the listing information from fields associated with listing record e.g. first name of JACK last name of DOE mailing address of 123 THIRD ST city name of GREENVILLE state name of ME zip code of 04441 and or telephone number of 207 555 1000 to the contact directory processor of step . As the telephone number originated from the directory server s of and more particularly the directory data structure of the contact directory processor of is provided a relative certainty for determining matching listing information using the example reverse look up function described above.

With the additional listing information returned from the query and the identification of user record of in the contact directory of the contact directory process of stores the returned listing information as contact record in the contact directory of step . In particular the contact directory processor of stores the returned listing information associated with listing record of e.g. JACK from the first name field DOE from the last name field 123 THIRD ST from the mailing address field GREENVILLE from the city field ME from the state field 04441 from the zip code field 207 555 1000 from the telephone number field of to the respective fields in contact record of . Thus listing information provided from directory service usage and additional listing information associated with the listing record is stored as a contact record and associated with the example user of in the contact directory of . The contact directory processor may also be configured to identify a contact record as a contact stemming from a DA service request for example the contact table of may only store contacts records associated with DA service requests and or an additional field in contact table may be populated with DA contact not shown .

As previously stated the example communication system of may be configured to transfer the content of the contact directory of to an associated user device prior to and or after a user request. For example the user device of may be a VoIP telephone which may on an aperiodic basis e.g. based on event based procedure s etc. a periodic basis e.g. based on scheduled procedure s etc. or real time basis to obtain or receive updated contacts from the contact directory of . Similarly the contact directory of may be implemented with API s to enable users to communicatively couple and interact with the contact directory of . Example of such interfaces may include providing graphic user interfaces via a browser or other such common programs to enable user interaction on user devices such as for example VoIP phones cellular phones personal computers personal digital assistants MP3 players set top boxes or any other device which may audibly or visually communicate data objects to a user.

Such an interface may provide a user e.g. users of to access designated contact directory data structures within the example contact directory of through one or more user devices e.g. the user devices . The interface may use for example a web based or HTML user interface to accept input and provide output by generating web pages that are transported via the Internet and viewed by the user using a web browser program a telephone user interface to accept input e.g. a tone dialed response and provide output by generating telephone voice that is transported via a telephone network and heard by the user using a telephone or any other hardware software or firmware that enables the user devices of to enable inputs that allow a user to control the contact directory of and outputs that allow the contact directory of to produce the effects of the control. To this end the interface also may include one or more example authentication mechanisms and or protocols to authenticate a particular user seeking to access the example contact directory of . Example mechanism s and or protocol s that can be employed may include requiring entry of a unique identifier e.g. the user name USER110 of the user name field of and password e.g. the password USER110PASSWORD of the password field of associated with a particular data structure e.g. the contact data structure of and or using a user device e.g. the user device of having a device identifier uniquely associated with a field in data structure e.g. the account identifier field of . After authenticating a user the interface enables the authenticated user to provide delete and or change one or more fields and or records in the contact directory of via the example user devices or other user devices as discussed above in the example communications system of .

Flow diagrams representative of example processes configured to implement the example operator position of and the DA management system of are shown in . In these examples the processes may be implemented as machine readable instructions in the form of one or more example programs for execution by a processor such as the processor shown in the example processor system of . The processes may be embodied in software stored on a tangible medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD or a memory associated with the processor but persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the entire processes and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware in a well known manner. For example any or all of the example operator position of the DA management system of the directory server s of and the contact directory of could be implemented by firmware hardware and or software. More particularly the calling line identifier network interface I O devices and DA processor of the example operator position of along with the DASR parser CRIS and contact directory processor of the example DA management system of may be implemented by firmware hardware and or software. Further although the example processes are described with reference to the flow diagrams illustrated in persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that many other methods of implementing the example processes may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined. Similarly the execution of the example processes and each block in the example processes can be performed iteratively.

The example process of provides an example execution sequence that may be performed by the example operator position of to provide DA service for a user e.g. the example user of and record the use of the DA service by the user. The example process of provides an example execution sequence that may be performed by the example DA management system of to provide contact management for a user of DA services e.g. the example user administer billing for the usage of DA services and or any other electronic services to monitor the usage of DA services.

The example process of begins at block where the example operator position of communicatively couples a user who may dial a particular telephone number e.g. 411 555 1212 etc. with an operator which provides the example operator position of with the device identifier associated with the user device. After the user and the operator are communicatively coupled block the example operator position of receives particular listing information e.g. city name s state name s zip code s business name s surname s first and last name s etc. from the user. The operator position of then queries the directory server s of with the user provided listing information which may employ any such sequential string matching algorithms such as near matching e.g. matching a number of characters or sequence of characters within a string index matching e.g. ranking a subset of characters or sequence of characters within a string or any such current or future string matching algorithms.

The operator position of then receives the results of the query from the directory server s of block and provides the listing information to the user block . If the operator position of receives a communication that the provided listing information is incorrect e.g. a negative verbal response from a user a particular tone dialed response from a user device etc. the operator position of provides the user an option for an additional directory query block . If the operator position of receives a communication to indicate an additional directory query e.g. an affirmative verbal response from a user a particular tone dialed response from a user device etc. the operator position of repeats blocks to perform an additional query with new or additional listing information received from the user.

If the operator position of receives a communication that the provided listing information is correct e.g. an affirmative verbal response a particular tone dialed response from a user device etc. the operator position of generates a directory assistance service record to register the usage of the DA service by the user block which is sent to the DA management system of . The directory assistance service record may include one or more data objects such as for example a telephone number for the user to be billed and a telephone number of the provided listing information. After a directory assistance service record is generated and sent block or the operator position of receives a request from the user for no additional directory queries e.g. an affirmative verbal response from a user a particular tone dialed response from a user device etc. block the process ends and or returns control to a higher level process.

The example process of begins at block where the DA management system of obtains a directory assistance service record which may be generated from the example operator position of . After obtaining the directory assistance service record block the DA management system of duplicates one or more data objects from the directory assistance service record to any additional processes for parallel processing. For example the DA management system of may duplicate the directory assistance service record to a billing process. After duplicating one or more data objects from the directory assistance service record to create any parallel processes block the DA management system of performs a query on the contact directory of to determine if one or more users specified by the data objects from the directory assistance service record has a record in the contact directory of block . For example the DA management system of may query the contact directory of for a record containing a particular telephone number or other such unique user identifier associated with a user from the directory assistance service record. The DA management system of may also query the contact directory of and identify a plurality of records associated with a particular telephone number or other such unique identifier from the data object s of the directory assistance service record.

If the DA management system of does not identify a record associated with the user from the directory assistance service record in block the DA management system of ends the process and or returns control to a higher level process. Alternatively if the DA management system of identifies a record associated with the user from the directory assistance service record in block the DA management system of performs a query of the directory server s of with one or more data objects from the directory assistance service record block . For example the DA management system of may query the directory server s of with a telephone number from the directory assistance service record.

The DA management system of then obtains some or all of the listing information associated with the listing record returned from the directory server s of block . For example the DA management system of may obtain first names last names mailing addresses city names state names zip codes multiple telephone numbers email addresses business names business descriptions navigational coordinates or any other listing information that can be stored in the directory server s of . After the listing information is obtained in block the DA management system stores the listing information as one or more contact records in the contact directory of block . For example the DA management system may store the listing information to a contact record that is associated with the user of directory assistance. The DA management system may also store the listing information to a plurality of contact records each of which is associated with a different user record in the contact directory of e.g. multiple user records associated with a common data object such as multiple users associated with a telephone number . The DA management system also may store the new contact record in a particular table specified for DA service contacts or populate a particular field to differentiate the new contact record as contact associated with DA service usage.

The processor platform of the example of includes at least one general purpose programmable processor . The processor executes coded instructions present in main memory of the processor e.g. within a random access memory RAM . The coded instructions may be used to implement the instructions represented by the example processes of . The processor may be any type of processing unit such as a processor core processor and or microcontroller. The processor is in communication with the main memory including a read only memory ROM and the RAM via a bus . The RAM may be implemented by dynamic RAM DRAM Synchronous DRAM SDRAM and or any other type of RAM device and ROM may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the memory and may be controlled by a memory controller not shown .

The processor platform also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an external memory interface serial port general purpose input output etc. One or more input devices and one or more output devices are connected to the interface circuit .

At least some of the above described example methods and or apparatus are implemented by one or more software and or firmware programs running on a computer processor. However dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement some or all of the example methods and or apparatus described herein either in whole or in part. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the example methods and or apparatus described herein.

It should also be noted that the example software and or firmware implementations described herein are optionally stored on a tangible storage medium such as a magnetic medium e.g. a magnetic disk or tape a magneto optical or optical medium such as an optical disk or a solid state medium such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories or a signal containing computer instructions. A digital file attached to e mail or other information archive or set of archives is considered a distribution medium equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the example software and or firmware described herein can be stored on a tangible storage medium or distribution medium such as those described above or successor storage media.

To the extent the above specification describes example components and functions with reference to particular standards and protocols it is understood that the scope of this patent is not limited to such standards and protocols. For instance each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP User Datagram Protocol UDP IP HyperText Markup Language HTML HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP represent examples of the current state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having the same general functionality. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same functions are equivalents which are contemplated by this patent and are intended to be included within the scope of the accompanying claims.

This patent contemplate examples wherein a device is associated with one or more machine readable mediums containing instructions or receives and executes instructions from a propagated signal so that for example when connected to a network environment the device can send or receive voice video or data and communicate over the network using the instructions. Such a device can be implemented by any electronic device that provides voice video and or data communication such as a telephone a cordless telephone a mobile telephone a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a set top box a computer and or a server.

Additionally although this patent discloses example systems including software or firmware executed on hardware it should be noted that such systems are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in some combination of hardware firmware and or software. Accordingly while the above specification described example systems methods and articles of manufacture persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the examples are not the only way to implement such systems methods and articles of manufacture. Therefore although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

