---

title: Beacon content propagation
abstract: Systems and methods for transmitting beacon messages are described. A beacon message is transmitted from a first beacon device and broadcast to an area within a transmission range of the first beacon device. A mobile device receives and stores the message. When the mobile device is out of the range of the first beacon device and within the range of a second beacon device, the message is transmitted to the second beacon device and broadcast by the second beacon device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09215570&OS=09215570&RS=09215570
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09215570
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e this application claims priority to the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 901 338 filed Nov. 7 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to the transmittal of beacon messages from one location to another location.

Even when not being used by a user mobile computing devices typically communicate with a cellular network at intervals to send and receive data for various purposes such as updating the time determining the location of the mobile computing device or checking signal strength. These communications are often instigated by the mobile computing devices by sending a message to the network and receiving some form of response. These actions can use a significant amount of energy and reduce the battery life of the mobile computing device.

For communicating with other mobile devices over relatively short distances Bluetooth wireless technology has become increasingly popular allowing a mobile computing device to communicate wirelessly with another nearby device without having to route the communication through a network of remote devices such as satellites and cell towers. Once the nearby device communicates a message to the mobile computing device the message typically does not move any further. Thus a need exists for systems and methods that allow the message to be spread over a larger area.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure describes the dissemination of beacon messages from one transmission range to a second different transmission range. A beacon message is transmitted from a first stationary beacon generation device and broadcast to an area within a transmission range of the first beacon generation device. Mobile devices such as mobile phones can receive and store the message. When the mobile device is out of range of the first beacon generation device and within the range of a second beacon generation device the message can be transmitted to the second beacon generation device and broadcast by the second beacon generation device. All of these actions can be performed with minimal energy use by the beacon generation devices and the mobile device.

As defined herein a beacon is a short range communication device having a known or fixed location that provides a signal that can be detected by mobile devices within a certain proximity of the beacon. An example of a beacon is a radio frequency RF beacon e.g. Bluetooth low energy BLE beacon infrared beacon or a radio frequency identifier RFID tag. For example a BLE beacon can broadcast an RF signal that includes its position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude which can be detected by a mobile device. In some implementations the beacon can also advertise location based services provided by a beacon network. A beacon network encompasses a plurality of beacons in a geographic region.

When a mobile device first makes contact with a beacon in the beacon network the beacon can transmit to the mobile device a list of unique identifiers of other beacons in the network and other information about the beacon network. Beacon networks can be located in any geographic region including businesses e.g. shopping malls retail stores restaurants etc. landmarks e.g. museums airports parks entertainment venues etc. homes and any other environments where location based services are desired. Even more specifically beacons can be placed in store shelves and end caps to give precise location information about products.

As shown in the system includes a mobile device e.g. a smartphone one or more beacons e.g. a RF beacon or BLE beacon and at least one service provider server or device e.g. network server device in communication over the network . The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. As such in various embodiments the mobile device one or more beacons and service provider server or device may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address .

The mobile device is configured to perform one or more tasks when mobile device is located in proximity to the beacon or . The task to be performed can include for example launching an application program setting certain files to non accessible mode initiating a phone call sounding an alarm storing a message etc. In one embodiment the mobile device stores a message transmitted by the beacon or .

The mobile device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . The mobile device in one embodiment may be utilized by the user to interact with the service provider server over the network . For example the user may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers bill payment etc. with the service provider server via the mobile device . In various implementations the mobile device may include a wireless telephone e.g. cellular or mobile phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a personal computer a notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices.

The mobile device in one embodiment includes a user interface application which may be utilized by the user to conduct transactions e.g. shopping purchasing bidding etc. with the service provider server over the network . In one aspect purchase expenses may be directly and or automatically debited from an account related to the user via the user interface application .

In one implementation the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the service provider server via the network . In another implementation the user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over the network .

The mobile device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features calendar application contacts application location based services application programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software applications. In still other examples the other applications may interface with the user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience.

The mobile device in one embodiment may include at least one user identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the mobile device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include one or more attributes related to the user such as personal information related to the user e.g. one or more user names passwords photograph images biometric IDs addresses phone numbers etc. and banking information and or funding sources e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers user account numbers security data and information etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user login request to the service provider server via the network and the user identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate the user with a particular user account maintained by the service provider server .

In some embodiments the mobile device includes a communication subsystem which can include RF receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example the mobile device can include communication subsystems designed to operate over a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM network a General Packet Radio Service GPRS network an Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network.

Beacons may be set up by merchants or individuals offering various items such as products and or services for sale. Beacons are typically maintained by one or more service providers. Beacons together form a beacon network. When the user comes in range of beacon or a mobile application run by the service provider can wake up and connect to the beacon or . The mobile device can then receive and store messages from beacon or . In some implementations beacons and are BLE beacons.

Beacons can output a wireless signal that can be detected by mobile device when the mobile device is within a certain proximity of the beacon or . Beacons may be a device that periodically or continuously transmits a signal such as a short distance wireless e.g. BLE medium distance wireless e.g. Wi Fi and or other electro magnetic and or electro magnetic transmissions. The mobile device is configured to detect the transmitted signals from beacons such that when the mobile device is located within the transmission range the signal may be detected. In an embodiment the transmission range is about 2 inches to about 160 feet. The range can be controlled by adjusting beacon power.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by a transaction processing entity which may provide processing for financial transactions and or information transactions between the user and the beacons . As such the service provider server includes a service application which may be adapted to interact with the mobile device and or the beacons over the network . In one example the service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. eBay of San Jose Calif. USA and or one or more financial institutions or a respective intermediary that may provide multiple point of sale devices at various locations to facilitate transaction routings between merchants and for example financial institutions.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain one or more user accounts and merchant accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with one or more individual users e.g. user and merchants. For example account information may include private financial information of user such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate financial transactions between user and a merchant. In various aspects the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users and or merchants that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account and or merchant account respectively.

In one implementation the user may have identity attributes stored with the service provider server and user may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with the service provider server . User attributes may include personal information banking information and or funding sources. In various aspects the user attributes may be passed to the service provider server as part of a login search selection purchase and or payment request and the user attributes may be utilized by the service provider server to associate user with one or more particular user accounts maintained by the service provider server .

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for transmitting beacon messages is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In an embodiment at step at least one beacon message is generated with a beacon message generation device e.g. beacon . The beacon message may include an advertisement coupon promotion or a combination thereof. For example the beacon message can contain a URL or other address information that receiving mobile device can use to look up and retrieve information e.g. location based information . In an embodiment the beacon message can include URL information indicating a website from which store coupons can be retrieved. For instance a grocery store can have a beacon generation device located in or near the store that transmits these store coupon type beacon messages. Any mobile computing device near the store can receive the beacon messages and retrieve or download up to date coupons from the indicated website for use in the store. In another example a local merchant or seller may provide items for purchase where details of the seller e.g. location type of goods and or offered items e.g. price description are included in a beacon message transmitted to devices within communicating distance with the beacon.

At step the generated beacon message is transmitted by the beacon within a transmission range of the beacon for reception by the mobile device located in the transmission area. Beacon messages can be transmitted from a beacon message generation device to one or more mobile devices using a BLE wireless communication protocol. BLE is an exemplary wireless communication protocol that can be used to transmit beacon messages as described herein with low energy cost. The beacon messages are not limited to use with BLE but can be used with other low energy or non low energy wireless communication protocols such as Wi Fi.

At step the at least one beacon message is received and stored by the mobile device . In some examples the mobile device can receive a beacon message in sleep mode and process the beacon message without awaking from sleep mode to conserve energy. In some embodiments the mobile device can display a message to the user in response to the beacon message. In other examples the beacon message contains a URL or other address from which the mobile device can retrieve additional information. User may be provided with relevant information e.g. advertisements on the mobile device while in a certain location. In one embodiment if user is at a museum or large parking garage beacon can provide mobile device with locations for other beacons e.g. beacon in the beacon network. These beacon locations can be shown on a map displayed on the mobile device . Mobile device can store the received data on a storage device and the stored data can be updated periodically.

User and mobile device travel to a location outside of the transmission range of beacon and come within a range of a second different beacon e.g. beacon . At step the mobile device transmits the beacon message to beacon . The information in the beacon message and the range of the beacon message can be set by the originator of the beacon message e.g. a merchant . For example a merchant may only want the beacon message to be communicated miles outside of beacon s transmission range or a merchant may only want coupons communicated in the beacon message.

At step beacon receives the beacon message and transmits the beacon message in its transmission range which may be different from beacon s transmission range. In this way the beacon message can be propagated and spread beyond the transmission range of beacon to reach more users. Note that the transmission ranges may be the same but because beacon is in a different location than beacon beacon messages transmitted from beacon can reach users outside the range of beacon .

A user can knowingly or unknowingly carry the beacon message to other beacons thereby increasing the message s beacon range. This allows beacon stores kiosks messages etc. to have a potentially wider reach if the beacon originator so desires.

Note that while only beacons and are shown and described embodiments described herein can be extended to any number of beacons such that a message generated from one beacon can be propagated around the world using numerous beacons and one or more user mobile devices even though beacon transmission distances are greatly limited.

A particular example will now be described. A person is having a garage sale in San Jose and turns on their beacon. The beacon generates a message that says Garage Sale at 1234 Main Street. We have vintage vinyl and comic books. A user visiting or nearby the garage sale receives the message from the beacon on the user s mobile device when the device is within a transmission range of the beacon. Other messages may include description and prices of specific items. When the user leaves the garage sale is out of the transmission range of the beacon and is in the transmission range of a second beacon the mobile device transmits the message s to the second beacon. The second beacon can then transmit the message to other users not in proximity of the first beacon. As a result a potential consumer that may not have known about a specific item because the consumer was not able to receive information directly from the garage sale beacon is now aware of the item and can proceed with getting more information about the item and or purchasing the item. Thus local merchants are able to reach more potential buyers and potential buyers are able to receive information about more items offered by sellers.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user i.e. sender recipient service provider action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network wherein the one or more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein as non transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising steps described herein and methods performed by one or more devices such as a hardware processor user device server and other devices described herein.

