---

title: Metal ferrite oxygen carriers for chemical looping combustion of solid fuels
abstract: The disclosure provides a metal ferrite oxygen carrier for the chemical looping combustion of solid carbonaceous fuels, such as coal, coke, coal and biomass char, and the like. The metal ferrite oxygen carrier comprises MFeOon an inert support, where MFeOis a chemical composition and M is one of Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Co, Mn, and combinations thereof. For example, MFeOmay be one of MgFeO, CaFeO, SrFeO, BaFeO, CoFeO, MnFeO, and combinations thereof. The MFeOis supported on an inert support. The inert support disperses the MFeOoxides to avoid agglomeration and improve performance stability. In an embodiment, the inert support comprises from about 5 wt. % to about 60 wt. % of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier and the MFeOcomprises at least 30 wt. % of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier. The metal ferrite oxygen carriers disclosed display improved reduction rates over FeO, and improved oxidation rates over CuO.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09557053&OS=09557053&RS=09557053
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09557053
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130920
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

The disclosure provides a metal ferrite oxygen carrier for the chemical looping combustion of solid carbonaceous fuels such as coal coke coal and biomass char and the like. The metal ferrite oxygen carrier comprises MFeOon an inert support where MFeOis a chemical composition and M is one of Mg Ca Sr Ba Co Mn and combinations thereof.

In certain applications metal oxide oxygen carriers are utilized for the delivery of oxygen via reduction. One such application which has been investigated extensively is chemical looping combustion. Chemical looping combustion systems generally utilize a fuel reactor an air reactor and a metal oxide oxygen carrier undergoing reduction in the fuel reactor and oxidation in the air reactor. The reduction in the fuel reactor is facilitated by close contact between a fuel and the oxygen carrier. The subsequent oxidation of the carrier in the air reactor is an exothermic process and a stream of Nis exhausted from the air reactor and carries the heat of oxidation to an attached power generation island.

Chemical looping combustion cycles provide potentially significant advantages. The enhanced reversibility of the two redox reactions offers improved efficiencies over traditional single stage combustions where the release of a fuel s energy occurs in a highly irreversible manner. Further with appropriate oxygen carriers both redox reactions can occur at relatively low temperatures allowing a power station to more closely approach an ideal work output without exposing components to excessive working temperatures. Additionally and significantly chemical looping combustion can serve as an effective carbon capture technique. Of the two flue gas streams generated one is comprised of atmospheric Nand residual O but sensibly free of CO while the second stream is comprised of COand HO and contains almost all of the COgenerated by the system. It is relatively uncomplicated to remove the water vapor leading to a stream of almost pure CO. For these reasons chemical looping combustion systems have been extensively investigated. However necessary characteristics of the oxygen carrier such as sufficient durability and reactivity have limited the success particularly when the fuel utilized has been introduced to the fuel reactor as a solid such as carbon coal or biomass.

Challenges associated with the chemical looping combustion of solid carbonaceous fuels include achieving sufficient combustion rates suitable for various reactor systems sufficient oxygen release capacity facilitating the coal oxygen carrier interactions stable reactivity during multiple cycles high attrition resistance and low reactivity with ash and other contaminants. Additional issues arise when the solid carbonaceous fuel is introduced directly into a fuel reactor without benefit of an initial gasification. Introduction of the solid carbonaceous fuel into the fuel reactor can generate a direct reduction of the oxygen carrier by carbon and the combustion of solid carbonaceous fuels containing or subsequently generating significant amounts of a solid carbon component such as char is dramatically improved when an oxygen carrier capable of reduction from a solid solid reaction with carbon is utilized. See e.g. Siriwardane et al. Evaluation of reaction mechanism of coal metal oxide interactions in chemical looping combustion 157 2010 . Additionally a significant concern may arise regarding mismatch between any gasifications within the reactor and the combustion rate at the same temperature. Such issues can prolong the residence time of coal inside the fuel reactor to fulfill the higher carbon conversion efficiency.

A variety of metal oxides have been evaluated for suitability as oxygen carriers in chemical looping combustion systems using solid fuels. Metal oxides based on Ni Fe Co Cu and Mn have a good affinity with CO and are thermodynamically feasible as oxygen carriers however MnO CoOand CuO decompose at relatively low temperatures. CuO has also been extensively investigated but the low melting point and agglomeration issues introduce significant difficulties. FeOgenerally exhibits improved temperature stability however the reactivity of FeOis significantly limited as compared to Cu based oxygen carriers. Additionally FeOrequires relatively high temperatures as compared to CuO. These characteristics reduce overall system performance and increase the complexity of heat transfer requirements in a working system. Mixed systems have also been evaluated for solid fuels combustion in an attempt to optimize the characteristics of the individual constituents. See e.g. Wang et al. Investigation of Chemical Looping Combustion of Coal with CuFeOOxygen Carrier 25 2011 see also U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 159 553 by Siriwardane et al. filed Jun. 14 2011. Iron Fe and manganese Mn compounds have also been investigated as oxygen carriers. See Shulman et al. Manganese Iron Manganese Nickel and Manganese Silicon Oxides Used in Chemical Looping With Oxygen Uncoupling CLOU for Combustion of Methane 23 2009 .

It would be advantageous to provide a metal ferrite oxygen carrier having improved durability and reactivity over metal oxides currently used in the chemical looping combustion of solid carbonaceous fuels such as coal coke coal and biomass char and the like. It would be additionally advantageous if the metal ferrite oxygen carriers exhibited improved reduction rates over typically used materials such as FeO and were comparable with CuO while avoiding the associated agglomeration issues. It would be particularly advantageous if the metal ferrite oxygen carriers were comparable in cost to FeOand could be prepared using readily available materials.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The disclosure provides a metal ferrite oxygen carrier having improved durability and reactivity over metal oxides currently used in the chemical looping combustion of solid carbonaceous fuels such as coal coke coal and biomass char and the like. The metal ferrite oxygen carrier comprises MFeOon an inert support where MFeOis a chemical composition and M is one of Mg Ca Sr Ba Co Mn and combinations thereof. For example MFeOmay be one of MgFeO CaFeO SrFeO BaFeO CoFeO MnFeO and combinations thereof.

The MFeOis supported on an inert support. The inert support disperses the MFeOoxides to avoid agglomeration and improve performance stability. In an embodiment the inert support comprises from about 5 weight percent wt. to about 60 wt. of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier and the MFeOcomprises at least 30 wt. of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier.

The metal ferrite oxygen carrier may be utilized for the combustion of a solid carbonaceous fuel by delivering the metal ferrite oxygen carrier to a fuel reactor and mixing the solid carbonaceous fuel and the metal ferrite oxygen carrier at a reducing temperature such that some portion of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier is reduced and some portion of the solid carbonaceous fuel is oxidized. Within the fuel reactor the metal ferrite oxygen carrier interacts with the solid carbonaceous fuel and generates a reduced carrier comprising an M component and an FeOcomponent. The M component comprises some portion of the M comprising the MFeO and the FeOcomponent comprises some portion of the Fe comprising the MFeO with c 0 and d 0. For example the FeOcomponent may be Fe or may be an iron oxide such as FeO Fe2O3 and FeO among others. In an embodiment the FeOcomponent is FeO where 0 t 1.5. In an additional embodiment the reducing and oxidizing temperatures are from about 800 C. to about 1200 C.

The metal ferrite oxygen carriers exhibit improved reduction rates over typically used materials such as FeO and are comparable with CuO while avoiding the associated agglomeration issues. The metal ferrite oxygen carriers are comparable in cost to FeOand can be prepared using readily available materials.

Embodiments of the metal ferrite oxygen carriers disclosed are further demonstrated and described in the following description.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide process for chemical looping combustion of a solid carbonaceous fuel utilizing a metal ferrite oxygen carrier which comprises MFeOon an inert support where MFeOis a chemical composition and M is one of Mg Ca Sr Ba Co Mn and combinations thereof.

The disclosure provides a metal ferrite oxygen carrier having improved durability and reactivity over metal oxides currently used in the chemical looping combustion of solid carbonaceous fuels such as coal coke coal and biomass char and the like. The metal ferrite oxygen carrier comprises MFeOon an inert support where MFeOis a chemical composition and M is one of Mg Ca Sr Ba Co Mn and combinations thereof. In an embodiment the MFeOis one of MFeO MFeO and combinations thereof where 1.5 u 2.5 3.5 v 4.5 1.5 w 2.5 and 2.5 z 3.5. For example MFeOmay be one of MgFeO CaFeO SrFeO BaFeO CoFeO MnFeO and combinations thereof. The metal ferrite oxygen carrier thereby comprises a metal ferrite MFeO with M selected from Group II elements Mg Ca Sr and Ba and transition metal ferrites CoFeOand MnFeO.

The group II metal ferrites showed better performance for solid fuel chemical looping combustion than that with transition metal ferrites. The group II elements may promote the oxygen release of FeOwhich cause higher reduction rate. The incorporation of group II elements in FeO3 decreased agglomeration of reduced state of Fe which lead to durable performance.

The inert support disperses the MFeOoxides to avoid agglomeration and improve the performance stability of the metal ferrite oxygen carriers. The inert support material does not participate in the oxidation and reduction reactions of the MFeOcomprising the metal ferrite oxygen carrier. In an embodiment the inert support comprises from about 5 wt. to about 60 wt. of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier and the MFeOcomprises at least 30 wt. of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier. The metal ferrite oxygen carrier is effective for use as an oxygen carrier in chemical looping combustion applications for the combustion of solid carbonaceous fuels as well as other applications where the transport of oxygen is facilitated through the reduction and subsequent re oxidation of an oxygen carrier.

A chemical looping combustion system within which the metal ferrite oxygen carrier disclosed here may be utilized is illustrated at . illustrates a chemical combustion system generally at and includes fuel reactor . Fuel reactor receives a fuel flow of solid carbonaceous fuel at and the metal ferrite oxygen carrier at and provides mixing among the solid carbonaceous fuel and the metal ferrite oxygen carrier. Fuel reactor is at a reducing temperature sufficient to reduce at least a portion of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier. In an embodiment the reducing temperature is from about 800 C. to about 1200 C. In certain embodiments fuel reactor may also receive a flow of gasification agent at such as steam CO H oxygen and or air or any other agent intended to generate gaseous products from the solid carbonaceous fuel within fuel reactor .

Within fuel reactor metal ferrite oxygen carrier interacts with carbon and possibly gaseous components from the solid carbonaceous fuel and the MFeOcomprising the metal ferrite oxygen carrier reduces to a reduced carrier comprising an M component and an FeOcomponent. The M component comprises some portion of the M comprising the MFeO. The FeOcomponent comprises some portion of the Fe comprising the MFeO with c 0 and d 0. For example the FeOcomponent may be Fe or may be an iron oxide such as FeO Fe2O3 and Fe3O4 among others. In an embodiment the FeOcomponent is FeO where 0 t 1.5. For example in an embodiment where the metal ferrite oxygen carrier is CaFeOon the inert support the CaFeOinteracts with carbon in fuel reactor and generates a reduced carrier mainly comprising Fe and FeO. In this embodiment the M component CaFeOgenerated by the reduction comprises some portion of the Ca comprising the CaFeO and Fe and FeO comprise the FeOcomponent FeOwhere 0 0 1.5. The MFeOcomprising the metal ferrite oxygen carrier may additionally interact with CO H and other gases which may be present from a gasification of the solid carbonaceous fuel. Following the reduction an exhaust stream comprised of COand possibly HO may exit fuel reactor at exhaust and the reduced carrier may exit fuel reactor at .

The reduced carrier exiting fuel reactor at may subsequently enter oxidation reactor . Oxidation reactor further receives a flow of oxidizing gas such as air and facilitates contact between the reduced carrier and the oxidizing gas generating a re oxidized carrier. The re oxidized carrier is generated by an oxidizing reaction where the reactants of the oxidizing reaction are a portion of the oxygen from the oxidizing gas the M component comprising the reduced carrier and the FeOcomponent comprising the reduced carrier. The product of the oxidizing reaction is the re oxidized carrier where the re oxidized carrier comprises MFeOon the inert support. Generally the MFeOcomprising the re oxidized carrier is substantially equivalent to the MFeOcomprising the metal ferrite oxygen carrier. For example when the metal ferrite oxygen carrier comprises CaFeOon the inert support and the reduced carrier comprises CaFeO Fe and FeO then the oxidation reaction generates a re oxidized carrier comprising CaFeOon the inert support. Oxidation reactor is at an oxidation temperature sufficient to oxidize at least a portion of the reduced carrier. In an embodiment the oxidizing temperature is from about 800 C. to about 1200 C.

Within this disclosure reducing or reduction as it applies to a metal ferrite oxygen carrier means the loss of oxygen from the MFeOcomprising the metal ferrite oxygen carrier. For example the reduction of a MFeOcomposition to FeO FeO and or Fe and an M component where the M component comprises some portion of the M comprising the MFeO or alternatively the reduction of a MFeOcomposition to a MFeOcomposition. Oxidizing or oxidation as it applies to a metal ferrite oxygen carrier means a reaction with oxygen among the FeO FeO and or Fe and the M component generated by reduction of the MFeO where the oxidation reaction produces the MFeO or alternatively a gain of oxygen by the MFeOcomposition. Similarly a reducing temperature is a temperature sufficient to generate reduction and an oxidizing temperature is a temperature sufficient to generate oxidation under other prevailing and germane existing conditions.

Within this disclosure solid carbonaceous fuel means a fuel comprising solid carbon such as coal coke coal and biomass char and the like. Under the reducing temperature of the fuel reactor and in some embodiments the influence of the gasification agent the solid carbonaceous fuel may produce volatile gases and other compounds in the fuel reactor. In an embodiment the solid carbonaceous fuel is at least 50 wt. fixed carbon. In an additional embodiment the solid carbonaceous fuel is at least 75 wt. fixed carbon and in a further embodiment the solid carbonaceous fuel is at least 85 wt. fixed carbon with a volatile matter content of less than 5 wt. . In another embodiment where the solid carbonaceous fuel is substantially free of volatiles such as petcoke char and the like the solid carbonaceous fuel is at least 90 wt. fixed carbon. Fixed carbon and volatile matter contents may be determined by means known in the art. See e.g. ASTM Standard Vol. 05.06 Gaseous Fuels Coal and Coke ASTM International 2013 .

Within this disclosure mixing as it pertains to a metal ferrite oxygen carrier and a solid carbonaceous fuel means bringing the metal ferrite oxygen carrier and the solid carbonaceous fuel and or some component thereof into sufficient proximity such that the MFeOcomprising the metal ferrite oxygen carrier reduces to a reduced carrier comprising an M component and an FeOcomponent at the reducing temperature within the fuel reactor. In an embodiment mixing means bringing the metal ferrite oxygen carrier and carbon comprising the solid carbonaceous fuel into sufficient proximity such that the metal ferrite oxygen carrier is reduced by a solid solid reaction with the carbon comprising the solid carbonaceous fuel. See e.g. Siriwardane et al. 157 2010 .

As stated and as is understood the metal ferrite oxygen carrier comprising MFeOon the inert support may also be made up of additional components. In an embodiment the MFeOon the inert support comprises at least 10 wt. of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier. In another embodiment the MFeOon the inert support comprises at least 25 wt. of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier and in a further embodiment the MFeOon the inert support comprises at least 50 wt. of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier. In an additional embodiment an oxygen carrier comprises a plurality of reducing components where each component in the plurality undergoes a reduction reaction in contact with the solid carbonaceous fuel and the metal ferrite oxygen carrier comprises at least 10 wt. at least 25 wt. or at least 50 wt. of the plurality of reducing components.

Additionally in an embodiment the metal ferrite oxygen carrier is a plurality of oxygen carrier pellets where each oxygen carrier pellet in the plurality comprises the MFeOon the inert support. In an additional embodiment a Sauter mean diameter of the plurality of oxygen carrier pellets is less than about 200 micron m preferably less than about 100 m. In a further embodiment the solid carbonaceous fuel is a plurality of fuel pellets and a Sauter mean diameter of the plurality of fuel pellets is less than about 200 micron m preferably less than about 100 m. The Sauter mean diameter may be determined by means known in the art such as sieving microscopy sedimentation permeametry laser diffraction or other means or as reported by a manufacturer of such as described pellets or the operating instructions of machinery intended to produce such as described pellets. See e.g. Martin Rhodes 2ed. 2008 . The use of such sized pellets as described can promote solid solid contact between the metal ferrite oxygen carrier and the solid carbonaceous fuel enhancing the reaction mechanisms. See e.g. Siriwardane et al. 157 2010 . When a gasification agent is used for gasifying the solid fuel the particle size of the carrier pellet may vary depending on the type of reactor bed used. In case of a fluid bed reactor particle size may be 100 500 m while in moving bed applications the particle size may be 1 5 mm.

The oxidizing reaction occurring in oxidation reactor is an exothermic reaction and heat generated is carried from oxidizing reactor by a gaseous flow exiting at . The gaseous flow exiting at is comprised of the oxidizing gas less that oxygen utilized for the generation of the re oxidized carrier and may be sent to and utilized by a power generation cycle. For example when the flow of oxidizing gas is air the gaseous flow exiting at is comprised of Nand possibly some remaining O and other components. The re oxidized carrier may be subsequently transported to fuel reactor for use as the metal ferrite oxygen carrier in a cyclic operation.

It is understood that provides an exemplary application illustrating a chemical looping combustion process with a solid carbonaceous fuel such as coal coke coal and biomass char and the like however the specifics of the process illustrated are not intended to be limiting. Within this disclosure it is only necessary that a metal ferrite oxygen carrier be delivered to a fuel reactor where the metal ferrite oxygen carrier comprises MFeOon an inert support and where M is one of Mg Ca Sr Ba Co Mn and combinations thereof and that the metal ferrite oxygen carrier contact a solid carbonaceous fuel at a reducing temperature sufficient to reduce some portion of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier and oxidize some portion of the solid carbonaceous fuel. An exemplary application is as the metal ferrite oxygen carrier in a chemical looping combustion process combusting a solid carbonaceous fuel or fuels such as coal coke coal and biomass char and the like.

As stated the metal ferrite oxygen carrier comprises MFeOon an inert support where MFeOis a chemical composition and M is one of Mg Ca Sr Ba Ni Co Mn and combinations thereof. For example MFeOmay be one of MgFeO CaFeO SrFeO BaFeO NiFeO CoFeO MnFeO and combinations thereof. The inert support does not participate in the oxidation and reduction reactions of the MFeO. In an embodiment the inert support is alumina AlO .

The performance of metal ferrite oxygen carriers comprising MgFeO SrFeO CaFeO and BaFeOon an inert support of AlOis illustrated at where the inert support comprises 10 wt. of the metal ferrite oxygen carrier. At specific listed constituents generally indicate 2 theta values where peaks indicate the presence of the specific constituent on the 2 theta axis.

X ray diffraction XRD analyses were carried out using a Panalytical PW 3040 X Pert Pro XRD system equipped with a 60 kV PW 3373 00 Cu LFF high power ceramic tube with a Cu anode and a PW 3011 20 detector. The X ray wavelength used was Cu KR 1 at 1.540 56 angstrom. The maximum goniometer resolution was 0.003 2 . System calibration was carried out using a polysilicon pressed disk with the Si referenced to 28.443 2 . Sample data were acquired at 40 kV and 45 mA in a line focus mode using a standard PW3071 60 powder diffraction stage.

Comparison of reduction and oxidation rates are illustrated at for the metal ferrite oxygen carriers comprising MgFeO CaFeO SrFeO BaFeO CoFeO and MnFeOon an inert support of AlO along with the reduction and oxidation rates for FeO CuO CuFeO and NiFe2O4 for comparison. The reduction and oxidation rates were obtained by TGA conducted in a thermogravimetric analyzer Cahn Thermax 500 to investigate the redox properties of the metal ferrite oxygen carriers. Approximately 1000 mg of metal ferrite sample mixed with coal or carbon black was placed in a Quartz bucket equipped with Cahn Thermax 500. The mixture was heated in a quartz bowl to 900 or 1000 C. at a heating rate of 5 C. min in Ngas and a flow rate of 150 sccm. The sample was then maintained isothermal for the duration of the redox cycles. The reduction cycle generally consisted of 100 nitrogen at 150 sccm while the oxidation cycle generally consisted of air at 150 sccm.

In an embodiment the metal ferrite oxygen carriers of this disclosure are synthesized using a microwave method. In microwave Anton Paar Synthos method metal nitrates or metal acetate were used as precursor of oxygen carriers. Metal nitrates or metal acetates were dissolved in the diethylene glycol and the solution was heated up to 200 C. 250 C. in the microwave reactor for 30 45 min. The resulting solid precipitate was washed with DI water and separated by centrifugation. The material was dried in an oven at 100 C. overnight and calcined in air at 600 1000 C. for 6 h.

In another embodiment the metal ferrite oxygen carriers of this disclosure are synthesized using a solid reaction method. Solid Reaction Method was evaluated as a preparation method since it is a more cost effective than microwave method. In Solid Reaction method metal nitrates were mixed with citric acid to enhance bonding and prevent aggregation at high temperature. The mixture was heated to 1000 C. at a ramping rate of 3 C. min in air and kept at 1000 C. for 6 h.

Thus the disclosure provides a metal ferrite oxygen carrier having improved durability and reactivity over metal oxides currently used in the chemical looping combustion of solid carbonaceous fuels such as coal coke coal and biomass char and the like. The metal ferrite oxygen carrier comprises MFeOon an inert support where MFeOis a chemical composition and M is one of Mg Ca Sr Ba Co Mn and combinations thereof. The metal ferrite oxygen carrier thereby comprises a metal ferrite MFeO with M selected from Group II elements Mg Ca Sr and Ba and transition metal ferrites CoFeOand MnFeO. The metal ferrite oxygen carriers disclosed display improved reduction rates over FeO and improved oxidation rates over CuO. Additionally Group II metal ferrites MgFeO CaFeO SrFeO and BaFeOdisplay improved reduction and oxidation rates over the transition metal ferrites CuFeO CoFeO NiFeO and MnFeO.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

