---

title: Detection and control of multimedia applications
abstract: A mechanism for automatically detecting and controlling active multimedia applications is provided. Software is installed on a computing device that detects a plurality of active multimedia sources, and then determines that one or more of the plurality of active multimedia sources accept remote control of one or more multimedia features. A software multimedia user interface, including graphically displayed interactive volume controls for the detected multimedia sources, is displayed and configured to enable a user to remotely control the respective audio levels of each detected multimedia program by graphic manipulation of respective interactive volume controls.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09395871&OS=09395871&RS=09395871
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09395871
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130129
---
Computing devices may include multiple applications that provide audio transmission for human listening. Web sites provide audio visual services including music streaming video streaming and the like. A computing device may include integrated hardware or software for controlling a master volume for all audio sound originating from software applications running on the device. In other aspects software may be configured to detect and control external audio devices. Since each software application or external device is independent of each other a user wishing to select or control volume for a single application or device from multiple applications and or devices must operate the respective controls individually.

The subject technology provides a system and method for displaying a universal audio control. According to one aspect a computer implemented method may comprise initiating at a computing device a display of a graphic multimedia interface determining on initiating the display of the multimedia interface a plurality of multimedia programs available to receive streaming multimedia content from respective remote audio sources and providing the multimedia interface for display on a display screen associated with the computing device the multimedia interface operating independent of the plurality of multimedia programs and including a plurality of graphically displayed interactive controls for controlling multimedia features of the plurality of multimedia programs.

In another aspect a machine readable medium may have instructions stored thereon that when executed cause a machine to perform a method for displaying a universal audio control. In this regard the method may comprise detecting a plurality of multimedia programs that receive streaming multimedia content from an external location determining that one or more of the plurality of multimedia programs accept remote control of one or more multimedia features and providing a graphic multimedia interface for display on a computing device including one or more graphically displayed interactive controls for each multimedia program determined to accept remote control of one or more multimedia features the graphic multimedia interface configured to on a user manipulation of an interactive control remotely control a multimedia feature of a multimedia program associated with the manipulated interactive control. Other aspects include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products. Other aspects include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

In a further aspect a system may include a display screen one or more processors and a memory. The memory may include server instructions thereon that when executed cause the one or more processors to initiate a display of a graphic multimedia interface determine on initiating the display of the graphic multimedia interface a plurality of multimedia programs available to receive streaming multimedia content from respective remote audio sources and provide the multimedia interface for display on the display screen the multimedia interface operating independent of the plurality of multimedia programs and including one or more graphically displayed interactive controls for each determined multimedia program an interactive control configured to remotely control a multimedia feature by graphic manipulation of the interactive control receive a user initiated manipulation of an interactive control corresponding to a multimedia program and change a state of a multimedia feature for the corresponding multimedia program according to the user initiated manipulation of the interactive control while keeping a current state of other multimedia features unchanged.

These and other aspects may provide one or more of the following advantages. The subject technology provides an easy to use control interface for controlling all active audio applications on a computing device. By providing the universal audio control of the subject technology the user may more easily manipulate audio controls without having to search for and open individual applications. Accordingly the user is saved cognitive resources measured in the effort and time that would otherwise be required to search for and open individual applications. Accordingly the user has more time to perform other tasks or activities.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Multimedia programs are application programs that operate independent of multimedia subsystem . Multimedia programs may include one or more native applications for example installed on the computing device and or one or more web applications for example accessed over a network or embedded within a web page displayed by a browser . For example a multimedia program may include a user facing multimedia application such as a stand alone media player internet radio application a website providing audio or video content in a web browser a browser component providing audio or video content or other types of software for streaming or receiving streamed audio or video. In some implementations a multimedia program may include a software program for receiving audio data from a multimedia component system . For example multimedia program may be software installed on a computing device for communication with an audio video A V receiver.

Multimedia subsystem includes an audio mixer for volume and tone control of audio signals generated by multimedia programs for output to audio hardware of the computing device. Multimedia subsystem includes a multimedia management component for example a software library for more detailed mixing and management of multimedia data before audio data is passed through audio mixer or converted to audible audio signals. As will be described further management component detects active multimedia programs verifies the detected programs accept remote control of their respective audio levels and aggregates control over those programs through a user interface.

In various aspects multimedia management component may provide a registration interface for example part of a application programming interface API framework to receive registration information requests from multimedia programs executing on the computing device. A multimedia program may be configured for example by way of programming to when executed or instructed to playback multimedia content operably connect to registration interface for example via the API and register itself with multimedia management component . Once multimedia program is registered multimedia subsystem may receive streaming multimedia content for example audio and or video data from multimedia program .

In other aspects a multimedia program may provide an indication to registration interface for example a notification sent via the API that multimedia program is active and accepts remote control of features provided by multimedia program for example audio levels . Multimedia program may then periodically provide multimedia subsystem for example via registration interface content information for actively playing or queued multimedia content. Content information may include for example a title or description associated with the multimedia content. By querying interface for this information management component may determine content information for a multimedia source for example an internet radio provider associated with multimedia program . In some implementations each multimedia program may register itself at registration interface and multimedia management component on learning of a registered audio source from the registration may query the audio source directly for content information.

As described previously multimedia management component may determine active sources of multimedia content by detecting registration of multimedia programs at registration interface . In some examples management component further determines that one or more active multimedia sources accept remote control of respective audio levels. Management component may then send and receive messages to and from one or more multimedia programs to control various aspects of multimedia programs including increasing or decreasing volume of audio currently being streamed by corresponding multimedia sources changing songs or stations suspending pausing resuming or terminating playback and the like. Management component may send messages to a multimedia source requesting for example various types of audio related content information from the multimedia source for example title information artist information and the like .

In various aspects management component enumerates what multimedia programs are providing audio and provides them to a multimedia service interface . Multimedia service interface provides a service level interface for example another part of the API framework for providing user control over the enumerated multimedia programs . Accordingly the subject technology provides a software control user interface UI which may be graphically displayed to a user in the form of a dialogue box or similar graphic user interface for remote user control over enumerated multimedia programs . In this respect control UI includes graphically displayed interactive volume controls for each of the enumerated multimedia programs and is configured to remotely control the respective audio levels by graphic manipulation of respective interactive volume controls. As will be described further control UI may further display content information received from one or more enumerated audio programs.

Multimedia subsystem may receive streaming multimedia content from a detected multimedia program the audio program receiving the streaming multimedia content from a multimedia component system located remote from the computing device. Management component may receive from control UI a query for multimedia programs that accept remote control of one or more multimedia features return a list of programs and then receive from control UI one or more commands to control one or more features of multimedia component system . On receiving the one or more commands management component remotely controls via the detected multimedia program the one or more features of the multimedia component system according to the received one or more commands.

According to the subject technology multimedia controller is provided for user control of multimedia from multiple compatible software and hardware multimedia sources. Integration and communication between multimedia controller and compatible multimedia sources is implemented as described with respect to . In some implementations multimedia controller is provided for display by software of multimedia management component . In this manner multimedia controller provides display of detected active multimedia sources for example running on computing device or on other devices operably connected to the computer by wired or wireless network connection. On detecting active multimedia sources the underlying code for multimedia controller or management component verifies that one or more of the multimedia sources accept remote control of respective multimedia levels.

Multimedia controller includes graphically displayed interactive volume controls one for each detected multimedia source. Each volume control remotely controls an audio level for a verified source by graphic manipulation of the volume control. Volume controls may be manipulated to control volume levels by a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or similar device. Where display screen is a touch sensitive display volume controls may be manipulated by contact with a portion of display screen at a location corresponding to the volume control . Additionally multimedia controller may further determine from one or more of the detected multimedia sources respective content information for actively playing multimedia content. Content may include for example the name of a song or video being played. Once detected the content information may be displayed in a content window for a corresponding multimedia source in connection with a respective volume control for the multimedia source. Multimedia controller is not limited to control of volume levels. Rather multimedia controller may include other controls including for example a mute control for each multimedia source tone controls playlist controls forward backward pause next or previous song selection or the like.

In block a display of a graphic multimedia interface is initiated by a user. The multimedia interface provides a plurality of graphically displayed interactive controls for controlling multimedia features of a corresponding plurality of multimedia programs. A multimedia program may comprise a user facing multimedia application for example a stand alone media player internet radio application a website providing audio content in a web browser a website providing video content in the web browser a browser component providing audio content or a browser component providing video content. The interactive controls may include virtual dials sliders or buttons for controlling features such as a volume level a playback of multimedia content or a selectable list of available multimedia content.

On initiating the display of the graphic multimedia interface in block a plurality of multimedia programs available to receive streaming multimedia content from respective remote audio sources are detected by instructions associated with the multimedia interface. Detecting the multimedia programs may include for example receiving a plurality of registration requests from the plurality of multimedia programs at registration interface . In some aspects a registration request is a request to add an active multimedia source to a list or group of registered active multimedia sources. On receiving the request the multimedia source is registered with management component part of the multimedia subsystem . Accordingly a plurality of active multimedia sources corresponding to the plurality of multimedia programs may be registered and subsequently identified in the list of registered multimedia sources.

In block management component determines that one or more of the plurality of multimedia programs accept remote control of one or more multimedia features. The determination may be made for example by virtue of being registered or may be made by detecting one or more flags set at registration interface for a multimedia program during the registration process. In block the multimedia interface is displayed on a display screen associated with the computing device. The multimedia interface operates independent of the plurality of multimedia programs and includes one or more graphically displayed interactive controls for each determined multimedia program each interactive control configured to remotely control a multimedia feature by graphic manipulation of the interactive control. In some implementations the multimedia interface is a stand alone graphic user interface similar to virtual multimedia controller depicted in . In other implementations the multimedia interface is displayed as part of a web browser similar to virtual multimedia controller depicted in .

In block a user initiated manipulation of an interactive control corresponding to a multimedia program is received and in block a state of a multimedia feature for the corresponding multimedia program is changed according to the user initiated manipulation of the interactive control. The state may be changed while keeping a current state of other multimedia features unchanged. In one example manipulation of an interactive volume control triggers a command to adjust a volume level associated with a corresponding registered multimedia source. Accordingly the volume level of audio for the registered multimedia source is adjusted while keeping volume level for other registered audio sources unchanged.

Processor may be configured to execute code or instructions to perform the operations and functionality described herein manage request flow and address mappings and to perform calculations and generate commands. Processor is configured to monitor and control the operation of the components in server . The processor may be a general purpose microprocessor a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components or a combination of the foregoing. One or more sequences of instructions may be stored as firmware on a ROM within processor . Likewise one or more sequences of instructions may be software stored and read from system memory ROM or received from a storage medium for example via I O interface . ROM system memory and storage medium represent examples of machine or computer readable media on which instructions code may be executable by processor . Machine or computer readable media may generally refer to any medium or media used to provide instructions to processor including both volatile media such as dynamic memory used for system memory or for buffers within processor and non volatile media such as electronic media optical media and magnetic media.

In some aspects processor is configured to communicate with one or more external devices for example via I O interface . Processor is further configured to read data stored in system memory and or storage medium and to transfer the read data to the one or more external devices in response to a request from the one or more external devices. The read data may include one or more web pages and or other software presentation to be rendered on the one or more external devices. The one or more external devices may include a computing system such as a personal computer a server a workstation a laptop computer PDA smart phone and the like.

In some aspects system memory represents volatile memory used to temporarily store data and information used to manage device . According to one aspect of the subject technology system memory is random access memory RAM such as double data rate DDR RAM. Other types of RAM also may be used to implement system memory . Memory may be implemented using a single RAM module or multiple RAM modules. While system memory is depicted as being part of device those skilled in the art will recognize that system memory may be separate from device without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Alternatively system memory may be a non volatile memory such as a magnetic disk flash memory peripheral SSD and the like.

I O interface may be configured to be coupled to one or more external devices to receive data from the one or more external devices and to send data to the one or more external devices. I O interface may include both electrical and physical connections for operably coupling I O interface to processor for example via the bus . I O interface is configured to communicate data addresses and control signals between the internal components attached to bus for example processor and one or more external devices for example a hard drive . I O interface may be configured to implement a standard interface such as Serial Attached SCSI SAS Fiber Channel interface PCI Express PCIe SATA USB and the like. I O interface may be configured to implement only one interface. Alternatively I O interface may be configured to implement multiple interfaces which are individually selectable using a configuration parameter selected by a user or programmed at the time of assembly. I O interface may include one or more buffers for buffering transmissions between one or more external devices and bus and or the internal devices operably attached thereto.

Those of skill in the art would appreciate that the various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application. Various components and blocks may be arranged differently e.g. arranged in a different order or partitioned in a different way all without departing from the scope of the subject technology.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. The previous description provides various examples of the subject technology and the subject technology is not limited to these examples. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the invention.

The predicate words configured to operable to and programmed to do not imply any particular tangible or intangible modification of a subject but rather are intended to be used interchangeably. For example a processor configured to monitor and control an operation or a component may also mean the processor being programmed to monitor and control the operation or the processor being operable to monitor and control the operation. Likewise a processor configured to execute code can be construed as a processor programmed to execute code or operable to execute code.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. An aspect may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as an embodiment does not imply that such embodiment is essential to the subject technology or that such embodiment applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an embodiment may apply to all embodiments or one or more embodiments. An embodiment may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an embodiment may refer to one or more embodiments and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A configuration may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word example is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. Furthermore to the extent that the term include have or the like is used in the description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprise as comprise is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

