---

title: High fidelity nano-structures and arrays for photovoltaics and methods of making the same
abstract: A photovoltaic device includes an electron accepting material and an electron donating material. One of the electron accepting or donating materials is configured and dimensioned as a first component of a bulk heterojunction with a predetermined array of first structures, each first structure is substantially equivalent in three dimensional shape, has a substantially equivalent cross-sectional dimension, and where each first structure of the array of first structures has a substantially equivalent orientation with respect to adjacent first structures of the predetermined array forming a substantially uniform array.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09214590&OS=09214590&RS=09214590
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 09214590
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130306
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 299 839 filed May 29 2009 now abandoned which is a national phase entry of PCT US2007 11220 filed May 9 2007 which is based on and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 798 858 filed May 9 2006 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 799 876 filed May 12 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 833 736 filed Jul. 27 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 903 719 filed Feb. 27 2007 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 299 839 filed May 29 2009 now abandoned is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 583 570 filed Jun. 19 2006 which is the national phase entry of PCT International Patent Application Ser. No. PCT US04 42706 filed Dec. 20 2004 which is based on and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 531 531 filed on Dec. 19 2003 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 583 170 filed Jun. 25 2004 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 604 970 filed Aug. 27 2004 a continuation in part of PCT International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US06 23722 filed Jun. 19 2006 which is based on and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 691 607 filed on Jun. 17 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 714 961 filed Sep. 7 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 734 228 filed Nov. 7 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 762 802 filed Jan. 27 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 799 876 filed May 12 2006 a continuation in part of PCT International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US06 34997 filed Sep. 7 2006 which is based on and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 714 961 filed on Sep. 7 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 734 228 filed Nov. 7 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 762 802 filed Jan. 27 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 799 876 filed May 12 2006 and a continuation in part of PCT International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US06 43305 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 594 023 both filed on Nov. 7 2006 both of which are based on and claim priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 734 228 filed Nov. 7 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 762 802 filed Jan. 27 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 799 876 filed May 12 2006 and a continuation in part of PCT International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US2007 002476 filed Jan. 29 2007 which is based on and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 762 802 filed Jan. 27 2006 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 798 858 filed May 9 2006 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 799 876 filed May 12 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 833 736 filed Jul. 27 2006 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support from Office of Naval Research No. N000140210185 and STC program of the National Science Foundation under Agreement No. CHE 9876674. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

Generally the present invention is related to photovoltaic devices and methods for their fabrication. More particularly the photovoltaic devices are fabricated on a nanostructured scale.

Photovoltaics PV is the only true portable and renewable source of energy available today. Typically solar cells generate electricity by converting light energy into electricity through excitons. When light is absorbed an electron is promoted from the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO to the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital LUMO forming an exciton. In a PV device this process must be followed by exciton dissociation to form an electron and a hole. The electron must then reach one electrode while the hole must reach the other electrode in the presence of an electric field in order to achieve charge separation. Generally the electric field is provided by the asymmetrical ionization energy workfunctions of the electrodes. The materials and the architecture of solar cell devices should enable and facilitate charge separation and migration of the excitons. However the lifetime of migrating excitons is extremely short and as such an exciton can typically diffuse only a short distance i.e. about 10 nm to about 100 nm before the electron recombines with the hole it left behind. To separate the electron away from the hole with which it is bound an electron must reach a junction of an electron accepting material i.e. a material with higher electron affinity before the electron recombines with the hole it left behind. Thus the electron accepting material should be positioned within a migration distance of where the electron originated. Because the primary exciton dissociation site is at the electrode interface this limits the effective light harvesting thickness of the device and excitons formed in the middle of the organic layer never reach the electrode interface if the layer is too thick. Rather the electrons recombine as described above and the potential energy is lost.

The efficiency of solar cell devices is generally related to the organization or structure on a nano scale of the materials that make up the solar cell. Inexpensive organic solar cells devices have low efficiency because excitons do not dissociate readily in most organic semiconductors. In order to favor exciton dissociation the concept of heterojuction was proposed which uses two materials with different electron affinities and ionization potentials. In order to obtain effective light harvesting and exciton dissociation bulk heterojunction BHJ was employed where the distance an exciton must diffuse from its generation to its dissociation site is reduced in an interpenetrating network of the electron donor and acceptor materials. However although this conceptual framework has been proposed in the art the lack of control over nano scale morphology and structure results in random distribution of the donor and acceptor materials that lead to charge trapping in the conducting pathways.

Several methods have been used to make BHJs such as control of blend morphology through processing conditions synthesis of donor acceptor copolymers use of porous organic and inorganic films as templates self organization and cosublimation of small molecules to from graded donor acceptor heterostructures. Such methods are described further in C. J. Brabec Solar Energy Materials Solar Cells 83 273 2004 H. Spanggaard F. C. Krebs Solar Energy Materials Solar Cells 83 125 2004 F. Yang M. Shtein S. R. Forrest Nature Materials 4 37 2005 J. Nelson Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 6 87 2002 and N. Karsi P. Lang M. Chehimi M. Delamar G. Horowitz Langmuir 22 3118 2006 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. However due to immiscibility of solid state materials as well as limited synthesis methods and high cost these methods result in a lack nano scale morphology and structural control. Furthermore current methods of PV fabrication that attempt to control nano scale morphology fail to produce the desired uniform structures and restrict the overall size or footprint of the photovoltaic cell to roughly one square millimeter and cannot be used for large area device fabrication.

Thus there is a need for solar cells that have deliberate or predetermined nano scale morphology can be fabricated from virtually any material and that can be fabricated in overall dimensions greater than a few square millimeters.

The present invention includes a high fidelity bulk heterojunction of a photovoltaic device. A component of the bulk heterojunction includes a component configured and dimensioned with a predetermined array of first structures where each first structure of the array of first structures is substantially equivalent in three dimensional shape and where each first structure of the array of first structures has a substantially equivalent cross sectional dimension the cross sectional dimension is less than about 100 nm.

In some embodiments the photovoltaic device further includes each first structure of the array of first structures having a substantially equivalent orientation with respect to adjacent first structures of the predetermined array forming a substantially uniform array. The three dimensional shape of the first structures of the first component can be a cylinder a column a linear structure or a cone in alternative embodiments. In some embodiments the photovoltaic device further includes a second component where the second component has an array of second structures having three dimensional shapes configured and dimensioned to engage the array of predetermined three dimensional shapes of the first structures of the first component.

In alternate embodiments the photovoltaic device of the present invention includes a photovoltaic cell having a predetermined array of first structures with an overall dimension greater than about one square centimeter an overall dimension greater than about 2.5 square centimeters an overall dimension greater than about 5 square centimeters an overall dimension greater than about 10 square centimeters an overall dimension greater than about 15 square centimeters or an overall dimension greater than about 20 square centimeters.

In further alternate embodiments the cross sectional dimension of the three dimensional shape of the first structures of the first component is less than about 95 nm less than about 90 nm less than about 85 nm less than about 80 nm less than about 75 nm less than about 70 nm less than about 65 nm less than about 60 nm less than about 55 nm less than about 50 nm less than about 45 nm less than about 40 nm less than about 35 nm less than about 30 nm less than about 25 nm less than about 20 nm less than about 15 nm or less than about 10 nm.

In further alternate embodiments the three dimensional shapes of the second structures of the second component each have a cross sectional dimension of less than about 100 nm less than about 90 nm less than about 80 nm less than about 70 nm less than about 60 nm less than about 50 nm less than about 40 nm less than about 30 nm less than about 20 nm or less than about 10 nm.

In some embodiments the first component includes a metal oxide. In some embodiments the second component is a light absorbing material. In further embodiments the first component is crystalline semicrystalline or amorphous. In still further embodiments the first component includes a material selected from the group consisting of TiO P3HT PCBM ITO and PPV. In some embodiments the first component is an electron donating material. In other embodiments a second component of the bulk heterojunction is deposited within interstitial space of the predetermined array of first structures.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a photovoltaic device includes a first component of a bulk heterojunction configured and dimensioned with a substantially uniform array of first structures fabricated from a mold where each structure is substantially equivalent in three dimensional shape. In some embodiments the mold is a fluoropolymer a PFPE or a precursor from PFPE.

In some embodiments of the photovoltaic device of the present invention includes a first component configured and dimensioned with a predetermined substantially uniform array of substantially similar three dimensional shaped first structures where the predetermined substantially uniform array of substantially similar three dimensional shaped first structures is prepared by the process of molding the predetermined substantially uniform array of substantially similar three dimensional shaped first structures in the fluoropolymer mold.

In some embodiments a method of forming a photovoltaic device includes providing a fluoropolymer mold defining an array of substantially equivalently three dimensionally structured cavities introducing a first material into the substantially equivalently three dimensionally structured cavities of the fluoropolymer mold hardening the first material in the substantially equivalently three dimensionally structured cavities of the fluoropolymer mold and removing the hardened first material from the substantially equivalently three dimensionally structured cavities of the fluoropolymer mold.

In some embodiments the present invention includes a photovoltaic device having an active electron donating component configured and dimensioned with a predetermined substantially uniform array of first structures where each first structure of the array of first structures is substantially equivalent in three dimensional shape each first structure of the array of first structures has a substantially equivalent orientation with respect to adjacent first structures of the substantially uniform array and each first structure of the array of first structures has a substantially equivalent cross sectional dimension.

According to some embodiments a photovoltaic device includes an electron accepting material and an electron donating material that is configured and dimensioned to be positioned near the electron accepting material. Furthermore at least one of the electron accepting material or electron donating material includes a nano scale structure fabricated from a template where the template includes low surface energy polymeric material.

In other embodiments a photovoltaic device includes a layer of electron transferring material having a nano scale feature where the nano scale feature is molded from a mold made from a low surface energy polymeric material.

In alternative embodiments a method of fabricating a photovoltaic device includes providing a mold fabricated from a low surface energy polymeric material where the mold includes a nano scale recess configured therein. Next a first photovoltaic substance is introduced to a surface of the mold such that the first photovoltaic substance enters the nano scale recess. Then the first photovoltaic substance is solidified within the recess and the solidified first photovoltaic substance in the recess is coupled to a base layer. Next the solidified first photovoltaic substance is removed from the recess and a second electron complementary photovoltaic substance is introduced electrically adjacent to the solidified first photovoltaic substance.

According to some embodiments a method of harvesting nano particles or nano structures from molds includes providing a mold fabricated from a low surface energy polymeric material where the mold includes a nano scale recess. Introducing a substance into the recess of the mold and solidifying the substance in the recess of the mold to form a nanoparticle. Next the volume of the recess is decreased such that the nanoparticle is at least partially ejected from the recess.

In other embodiments a method of harvesting nanoparticles includes contacting particles formed in molds fabricated from a low surface energy material with PDMS such that the particles adhere to the PDMS more tightly than the particles adhere to the low surface energy material of the mold and removing the PDMS from contact with the low surface energy material mold such that the particles are removed from the mold.

According to embodiments of the present invention nano scale structures and nano scale arrays are fabricated from conducting or semiconducting materials to form highly efficient solar cell devices. Structures and arrays of structures are fabricated by molding a material using predetermined nano scale molds made of low surface energy polymeric materials. In some embodiments the predetermined nano scale arrangement and or shape of the nano scale structures have a size between about 1 nm and about 200 nm. In other embodiments the nano scale structures have a size between about 1 nm and about 100 nm. In still further embodiments the nano scale structures have a size between about 1 nm and about 50 nm. In some embodiments the nano scale structures can be arranged into arrays that can be organized symmetrically in a staggered pattern offset or some combination thereof. In some embodiments the arrays of nano scale structures can also have a variety of features sizes shapes compositions or the like assorted within each array such as for example some nano scale structures can be between about 1 nm to about 20 nm is a dimension and other nano scale structures of the same array can be sized between about 25 nm to about 200 nm in a dimension.

Generally an organic solar cell device includes an interpenetrating polymer network of an electron donor component p type conductor material and an electron acceptor component n type conductor material which is often referred to as a bulk heterojunction. In some embodiments of the present invention the electron donor is configured into a predetermined first structured array layer of predetermined high fidelity three dimensional structures. In some embodiments the electron acceptor material is filled into the inter spaces between the predetermined three dimensional structures of the first structured array layer. In other embodiments the electron acceptor is also configured into a predetermined second structured array layer of predetermined high fidelity three dimensional structures. It will be appreciated that either layer or both layers can be configured as the structured layer s depending on requirements of a particular application.

In some embodiments the polymer network can include but is not limited to polymer fullerene blends halogen doped organic crystals and solid state dye sensitized devices. Conducting polymers can include for example but not limitation poly phenylenevinylene PPV derivatives or C60 particles. Furthermore polymer based materials such as materials disclosed herein can be utilized for other organic electronics such as for example Light Emitting Displays LEDs and Field Effect Transistors FETs . Semiconducting polymers such as described herein and methods for fabricating the same can be utilized for Light Emitting Displays LEDs Field Effect Transistors FETs and PV cells. In a polymer photovoltaic device both active materials can exhibit a high optical absorption coefficient and can cover complementary parts of the solar spectrum. According to some embodiments polymer based photovoltaic devices of the present invention offer flexible light weight larger footprint high fidelity structures layers semi transparency low cost fabrication high throughput fabrication low temperature printing techniques tunable properties of organic materials and the like to solar cell devices.

According to some embodiments the nano scale structures and arrays of structures can be made from but not limited to for example metals semiconductors conducting or semiconducting polymers other materials disclosed herein combinations thereof or the like.

Referring now to an exemplary solar cell photovoltaic device of the present invention is shown. Photovoltaic device may include several components such as high work function electrode first interfacial layer that can be in contact with high work function electrode first nano structured arrays of donor material that can include nano structures and acceptor material second interfacial layer that can be in contact with low work function electrode and low workfunction electrode . In some embodiments a high workfunction electrode can be but is not limited to indium tin oxide ITO on glass. High workfunction electrode can be modified by for example grafting on the surface of the electrode molecules bearing a counter oriented dipole. In some embodiments the graft molecule can be but is not limited to a short conjugated core equipped with a donor group at one end and an acceptor group at the other end. The molecule can be attached to the electrode surface through a reactive group that may serve as a donor group. The reactive group can be but is not limited to acids silanes thiols combinations thereof and the like. The graft molecule can form a self assembled monolayer SAM which can help to attach a patterned two dimensional array of donor acceptor materials on to the electrode directly or to attach an embossed film of two dimensional array of donor acceptor structures on to the electrode directly. According to some embodiments high workfunction electrode can be modified so that it facilitates the formation of an array of nano structures on top of the electrode.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a first interfacial layer may be fabricated in contact with high workfunction electrode . The first interfacial layer can be but is not limited to an interfacial hole transporting layer that minimizes indium and oxygen diffusion and smoothes out the uneven high workfunction electrode ITO surface prevents shorts or allows resistivity in the shunt. The hole transporting material can be but is not limited to poly ethylene dioxythiophene doped with polystyrene sulfonic acid PEDOT PSS . In alternative embodiments first interfacial layer can be a self assembled monolayer SAM . The SAM can be made of but is not limited to a mixture of fluorinate SAM and reactive SAM to modify a surface of either high workfunction electrode ITO or low workfunction electrode . The SAM layer can also help to make arrays of donor acceptor materials with or without a flash or scum layer associated with the nano scale structured features. According to yet further embodiments first interfacial layer can be an embossed or molded film that can be made of but is not limited to an ITO transparent resin made from an incorporation of ITO particles mixed into a polymer resin for example a Urethane. In another embodiment first interfacial layer can be a combination of the above described layer.

According to some embodiments of the present invention second interfacial layer may be fabricated in contact with low workfunction electrode . In alternative embodiments second interfacial layer can be fabricated and then positioned in contact with low workfunction electrode . Second interfacial layer can be but is not limited to the following an interfacial layer that serves as an exciton blocking and electron conducting layer where this layer can be made of but is not limited to bathocuproine BCP . In alternative embodiments second interfacial layer can be a layer or a self assembled monolayer SAM which can be made of but is not limited to a mixture of fluorinate SAM and reactive SAM to modify the low workfunction electrode surface. This layer can also help to make two dimensional arrays of donor acceptor materials with or without a flash layer associated with the nano scale structured features. In another embodiment second interfacial layer can be a combination of the above described layer.

According to some embodiments of the present invention low workfunction electrode can be but is not limited to Al Au Ag combinations thereof or the like. Low workfunction electrode can be modified by but is not limited to grafting onto the surface molecules bearing a counter oriented dipole. In some embodiments the graft molecules can be but are not limited to a short conjugated core equipped with a donor group near one end and an acceptor group toward the other end. The molecule can be attached to the electrode surface through a reactive group that may serve as a donor group. The reactive group can be but is not limited to acids silanes thiols combinations thereof and the like. The graft molecule can form a self assembled monolayer SAM which can help attach nano scale pattern arrays of donor acceptor structures to the electrode directly or to attach a film of an array of donor acceptor on to the electrode directly. According to some embodiments low workfunction electrode can be modified so that it facilitates the formation of arrays of nano particles or nano structures such as acceptor material with or without a flash layer on the electrode.

According to some embodiments the nano scale structures of the nano scale array layer can be shaped as but are not limited to columns or pillars that are arrayed in a matrix as shown in . In alternative embodiments the nano scale feature arrays can be shaped as but are not limited to a sphere spheroidal trapezoidal cylindrical square rectangular cone pyramidal amorphous arrow shaped lines or grids lines of constant thickness lines of varying thickness a continuous line combinations thereof or the like.

The array shapes can have in some embodiments a uniform orientation and regular spacing between the structures. In other embodiments the array shapes can have alternating shapes sizes and orientations or amorphous shapes sizes and orientations or the like. In other embodiments the array shapes can vary in height. One preferred embodiment includes a structured component layer having structures designed and oriented in the array to maximize surface area of the structured layer. In some embodiments the distance between nano scale particle structures is between about 1 nm and about 500 nm. In alternative embodiments the distance between nano scale particle structures is between about 1 nm and about 100 nm. In further alternative embodiments the distance between nano scale particle structures is between about 5 nm and about 50 nm. In still further embodiments the distance between nano scale particle structures is between about 5 nm and about 20 nm. The preferred distance between nano scale particle structures can be generally determined to be the distance an excited electron will travel before it recombines with its respective hole for a given material that is to be used as donor material and acceptor material . Preferably an interface of electron donating material and electron accepting material of solar cell device will be no further from the furthest electron of electron donating material than the distance the electron can travel when excited by photons. Therefore an electron that is excited by light energy should be transferred to electron accepting layer and result in useful energy production.

The electron donating and electron accepting components of the present invention are structured by nano scale molding techniques using low surface energy polymer templates fabricated from methods and materials described in more detail herein and in published PCT patent applications PCT US06 23722 filed Jun. 17 2006 PCT US06 34997 filed Sep. 7 2006 PCT US06 31067 filed Aug. 9 2006 which are incorporated herein by reference. In some embodiments the molds are fabricated from low surface energy polymeric materials such as but not limited to FLUOROCUR Liquidia Technologies Inc. precursors of perfluoropolyether materials and perfluoropolyether PFPE materials described herein. The nano scale molding techniques of the present invention can begin with in some embodiments replicate molding of silicon wafers that have been prepared with a predetermined pattern by for example photolithography or etching. The low surface energy polymeric materials are then introduced to the etched silicon wafer and cured activated or hardened to form a replicate mold of the silicon wafer. In alternative embodiments other materials can be used for the molds of the present invention so long as the surface energy of the cured mold materials is less than the surface energies of the materials to be introduced into the mold cavities.

The nano scale structured layer can have an overall size or footprint that mimics the size of the etched silicon wafer and include nano scale structure replicates of the etchings of the silicon wafer. Typical silicon wafers have diameters ranging between 2 inch 4 inch 6 inch 8 inch and 12 inches 50 mm 100 mm 150 mm 200 mm and 300 mm wafers . Therefore in some embodiments the overall size or footprint of the structured layer or component can mimic the size of the etched wafer and yield photovoltaic cells ranging in footprint of 2 inch 4 inch 6 inch 8 inch and 12 inch diameters. However it should be appreciated that the present invention is not limited to 2 4 6 and 8 inch diameter footprints. Rather the photovoltaic cells of the present invention can be fabricated in any size and or shape that a master template e.g. silicon wafer quartz sheet glass sheet nickel roll other patterned surfaces can be fabricated. In some embodiments a master template can be fabricated on a continuous process and have lengths and widths that are only limited by practical manufacturing constraints. In some embodiments the photovoltaic cells can be fabricated in sheets having 4 inch 6 inch 8 inch 12 inch 24 inch 36 inch or 48 inch widths and 4 inch 6 inch 8 inch 12 inch 24 inch 36 inch 48 inch 60 inch 72 inch 84 inch 96 inch or continual lengths. Following fabrication the sheets can be cut into sizes and or shapes that are required for particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the range of shapes and or sizes the nano structure can be fabricated into.

Referring now to a patterned nano structure can be fabricated according to PRINT methods and as disclosed in the above referenced published PCT patent applications. According to substrate is provided as a backing or base for nano structure . Base can be for example an electrically conducting material a semiconductor non conducting material biocompatible material dissolvable material a polymer a ceramic a metal combinations thereof or the like. First substance is then deposited onto base . According to some embodiments first substance can be an electron donating material or electron accepting material. Preferably first substance is liquid or can be manipulated into substantially a liquid state for processing however first substance does not have to be liquid. Next patterned template having a pattern thereon is brought into contact with first substance . Patterned template is preferably brought into substantial contact with base thereby displacing first substance where pattern protrusions extend from patterned template . As shown in schematic B of when patterned template is positioned with respect to base first substance is partitioned within patterned recesses of patterned template . In alternative embodiments patterned template can be spaced a distance from base thereby leaving first substance in communication.

According to another embodiment the liquid such as first substance in is located between the template and the substrate by depositing a droplet or plurality of droplets of the liquid on the substrate. Thereafter contact is made with the liquid by the template to spread the liquid over the surface of the substrate and subsequently record a pattern therein. In other embodiments the liquid enters the recesses of patterned template by forces generated within the recesses wherein such forces can include but are not limited to atmospheric pressure and the like. The droplet can be manually positioned on the substrate or positioned on the substrate by spraying solutions of to be modeled liquids on a surface and letting the solvent evaporate to control the amounts deposited.

Next a treatment is applied to the combination to thereby activate polymerize evaporate solidify or otherwise harden first substance into a solid or semi solid. Treatment can be any process such as solvent casting and curing processes and techniques described herein such as but not limited to photo curing thermal curing evaporation and combinations thereof. Once treatment process is complete patterned template is removed from the combination of first substance and base .

Next second substance is introduced to the combination of first substance and base such that second substance fills the wells or recessed patterns left by removal of patterned template . Second substance can be any substance polymer liquid semi solid paste electron donating material electron accepting material conductor semiconductor active biologic active drug antibiotic combinations thereof or the like. Second treatment is applied to the combination of first substance base and second substance . Second treatment can be any treatment but particularly treatments disclosed in more detail herein such as for example photo curing thermal curing melt processing evaporation combinations thereof and the like. Second treatment initiates and hardens second substance into a solid or semi solid material and can activate second substance to bind with first substance such that second substance and first substance are chemically and or physically locked with respect to each other.

According to some embodiments first substance can be an electron donating material and second substance can be an electron accepting material such that nano structure forms a photovoltaic device. Preferably in such a device any junction of electron donating electron accepting material would be no further from any electron of electron donating material than between about 1 nm to about 100 nm. More preferably in a photovoltaic device any junction of electron donating electron accepting material would be no further from any electron of electron donating material than about 5 nm to about 50 nm. Even more preferably any junction of electron donating electron accepting material would be no further from any electron of electron donating material than about 5 nm to about 25 nm.

According to arrays of discrete predetermined particles or structures can be fabricated by PRINT methods. In some embodiments when patterned template is removed the particles or structures remain in patterned template . According to embodiments first substance which can be electron donating or accepting material of a photovoltaic device for example is deposited onto base . Patterned template is then positioned to engage first substance such that first substance interacts with the nano scale recesses of patterned template . In alternative embodiment the first substance can also be deposited into patterned template by vapor deposition electro spin combinations thereof or the like. A treatment is then applied to cure or otherwise solidify or semi solidify first substance into particles or nano structures that mimic the shape of the nano scale recesses of patterned template . Treatment can be any treatment disclosed herein such as for example photo curing thermal curing evaporation melt processing combinations thereof and the like. Particles or nano structures are then retained by patterned template . In alternative embodiments when the patterned template is removed the particles or structures remain on the base following fabrication in patterned template . According to such methods base can be a component of the photovoltaic device or particles can be transferred to a film for further transfer to a photovoltaic device or transferred directly from base to a layer of a photovoltaic device.

Next to form a photovoltaic device according to embodiments of the present invention particles or nano structures of can be transferred to or coupled with a base substance that is for example a high or low workfunction electrode or electron donor or acceptor material. Referring now to a base substance is positioned onto base . The base substance can be but is not limited to an interfacial or SA layer such as a fluorinated layer an adhesive layer a reactive layer or combinations thereof and the like. The case can be modified by but not limited to grafting on the surface of the electrode molecules bearing a counter oriented dipole. The graft molecule can be but not limited to a short conjugated core equipped with a donor group at one end and an acceptor group at the other end. The molecule is attached to the electrode surface through a reactive group that may serve as a donor group. The reactive group can be but is limited to acids silanes thiols combinations thereof and the like. The graft molecule can form a self assembled monolayer SAM which can help but is not limited to attach a patterned two dimensional array of donor acceptor on to the electrode directly. Next the two dimensional array of particles retained by patterned template is repositioned into communication with base substance and a treatment is applied to harden cure activate or otherwise solidify base substance . The treatment can also be a treatment that results in coupling structures to base substance . Structures can be removably coupled to base substance chemically bonded to base substance or the like. In some embodiments base substance may not require a treatment to be solidified. In some embodiments structures can form the donor acceptor material and base substance can form the high or low workfunction electrode of a photovoltaic device.

After patterned substance particles are coupled with component layer or base substance a nano structured component layer for a photovoltaic device is fabricated with nano structures shaped and oriented in deliberate and predetermined placement with respect to adjacent structures .

In some embodiments as shown in a second substance is introduced to the combination of particles or nano structures and base substance . Preferably the composition of second substance is the compliment to the composition of particles in terms of electron donating or electron accepting properties. Therefore if particles are an electron donating material then second substance can be an electron accepting material. Second substance can be introduced to the combination of particles and base substance such that second substance fills the space that is left open between particles from removal of the patterned template . Second substance can be introduced as liquid or substantially liquid however second substance does not have to be liquid. Second substance can also be introduced by vapor deposition electro spin melt processing or other methods. Second substance can be any substance polymer liquid semi solid paste electron donating material electron accepting material conductor semiconductor active biologic active drug antibiotic combinations thereof or the like.

Following introduction of second substance into the space between structures a second treatment can be applied to the combination of particle base substance and second substance . Second treatment can be any solvent evaporating process melt processing curing treatment particularly curing treatments disclosed in more detail herein such as for example photo curing thermal curing combinations thereof and the like. Second treatment can initiate and cure second substance into a solid or semi solid material and can activate second substance to bind with structures or first substance such that second substance and structures are chemically bound or locked with respect to each other. In some embodiment extra second substance can be introduced so that second substance can be in communication. Extra second substance can also form a second base layer which can be but is not limited to being an interfacial layer or one of a low or high workfunction electrode layer. According to some embodiments second substance can be introduced to a first two dimensional array of nano scale patterned structures where the structures are extensions protruding from a layer of material. Using similar techniques as described for introducing second substance to the combination of particles and base substance second substance can be introduced into the space between the nano scale patterned structures as shown in .

According to some embodiments first substance or structures can be an electron donating material and second substance can be an electron accepting material such that the combined nano structure forms a photovoltaic device. Preferably in such a device any junction of electron donating electron accepting material would be no further from any electron of electron donating material than about 1 nm to about 100 nm. More preferably in a photovoltaic device any junction of electron donating electron accepting material would be no further from any electron of electron donating material than about 5 nm to about 50 nm. Even more preferably any junction of electron donating electron accepting material would be no further from any electron of electron donating material than about 5 nm to about 25 nm. Preferably in such a device a generated exciton would be no further from a junction of an electron donating electron accepting material than about 1 nm to about 100 nm. More preferably in a photovoltaic device a generated exciton would be no further from a junction of an electron donating electron accepting material than about 5 nm to about 50 nm. Even more preferably a generated exciton would be no further from a junction of an electron donating electron accepting material than about 5 nm to about 25 nm. According to an embodiment each nano structure has a cross sectional diameter of less than about 250 nm. According to other embodiments each nano structure has a cross sectional diameter of less than about 225 nm 200 nm 175 nm 150 nm 140 nm 130 nm 120 nm and 110 nm. According to a more preferred embodiment each nano structure has a cross sectional diameter of less than about 100 nm. According to alternate more preferred embodiments each nano structure has a cross sectional diameter of less than about 95 nm less than about 90 nm less than about 85 nm less than about 80 nm less than about 75 nm less than about 70 nm less than about 65 nm less than about 60 nm less than about 55 nm less than about 50 nm less than about 45 nm less than about 40 nm less than about 35 nm less than about 30 nm less than about 25 nm less than about 20 nm less than about 15 nm less than about 10 nm less than about 7 nm less than about 5 nm or less than about 2 nm.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the electron donating and electron accepting materials of solar cell device can include but are not limited to low work function materials high work function materials electrophilic materials quantum dots nanoparticles microparticles conjugated polymers conducting polymers composite materials blended materials electronically doped materials nanocomposite materials electron transporting materials hole transporting materials light transmitting materials nanostructured materials mesostructured materials organic materials conjugated molecules inorganic materials nanorods nanowires nanocrystals nanomaterials carbon nanotubes C fullerenes Cderivatives TiO ITO TTF CdSe nanoparticles tin oxide zinc phthalocyanine copper phthalocyanine iron pthalocyanine perylenetetracarboxylic bis benzimidazole 3 4 9 10 perylene tetracarboxylic acid 2 9 dimethyl antra 2 1 9 def 6 5 10 d e f dilsoquinoline 1 3 8 10 tetrone free base phthalocyanine bathocuproine poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate poly 2 methoxy 5 2 ethyl hexyloxy 1 4 phenylene vinylene poly phenylene vinylene 2 methoxy 5 3 7 dimethyloctyloxy 1 4 phenylene vinylene PCBM 6 6 phenyl C61 butyric acid methyl ester poly 3 4 1 4 7 trioxaoctyl phenyl thiophene poly ethylenedioxythiophene poly 3 hexylthiophene poly 3 octylthiophene poly 3 phenyl azo methine thiophene polyvinyl N carbazole dicyanovinyl quaterthiophene 1 1 diallyl substituted 4 4 dipyridine poly phenylquinoxaline 1 4 draminoanthraquinone poly 1 6 heptadiene poly 1 4 pyridylvinylene polyfluorene containing materials poly aniline selenide nanoparticles sulfide nanoparticles telluride nanoparticles titanium oxide nanoparticles tungsten oxide nanoparticles zinc oxide nanoparticles zirconium oxide nanoparticles cyanines merocyanines phthalocyanines pyrroles xanthines tetrathiafulvalenes nitrogen containing materials sulfur containing materials calixarenes quinones divalent and trivalent metals ruthenium transition metal complexes osmium transition metal complexes iron transition metal complexes electrolyte redox system polymeric electrolytes photosensitizing agents silicon nanoparticles silicon containing materials gel electrolytes exciton blocking layers combinations thereof and the like.

One class of solid state materials useful with the present invention is conducting polymers. These polymers typically include organic structures possessing a degree of unsaturation to allow electronic communication throughout a polymeric structure. Because polymers in general are synthesized from monomer components the design of the conducting properties of a conducting polymer can be facilitated by engineering the monomer component to a desired specificity. Moreover polymers containing both organic and metal ion components afford a larger number of variables over organic based polymers through the incorporation of a diverse number of metal ions. A variety of synthetic strategies are described in numerous prior art references each of which is briefly described below and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Zotti et al. disclosed in situ conductivity of some polypyrroles and polythiophenes redox modified with pendant ferrocene groups. It was found that the electron hopping rate through the conductive polymer backbone is increased by a decrease of the ferrocene backbone distance and by conjugation of ferrocene with the backbone itself. Chem. Mater. 1995 7 2309 Cameron at al. describes a benzimidazole based conjugated polymer with coordinated Ru bpy moieties providing direct electronic communication between the ruthenium complex and the polymer. Chem. Commun. 1997 303 Audebert at al. reports a series of conducting polymers based on metal salen containing units based on mononuclear copper cobalt nickeland zinccomplexes. Under carefully chosen conditions thick electroactive polymer deposits are formed upon electrochemical oxidation of the monomer in solution. New. J. Chem. 1992 16 697 Segawa et al. describes a series of highly ordered conducting polymers through the construction of sequentially ordered one or two dimensional metalloporphyrin polymers connected by oligothiophene bridges. The one dimensional phosphorus V porphyrin polymers were linked toward the axial direction of the porphyrin ring whereas the two dimensional metalloporphyrin polymers were linked equatorially by oligibthienyl groups. Both polymer types were prepared by electrochemical polymerization techniques. U.S. Pat. No. 5 549 851 discusses silicon containing polymers admixed with an amine compound. A highly conductive polymer composition is formed upon doping with an oxidizing dopant typically iodine and ferric chloride. The composition has improved shapability and is easily applicable to form a highly conductive film or coating. U.S. Pat. No. 4 839 112 discloses methods of fabricating low dimensionally electroconductive articles by cofacially stacking organomacrocycles preferably cofacially stacking phthalocyanines. The cofacially stacked composition in strong Bronsted acid is formed into a desired shape such as a fiber or film. The integration of receptors into conducting polymer frameworks has been shown to produce materials which provide changes in physical characteristics upon binding of targeted analytes Devynck et al. describes a material containing Co III porphyrin sites. Variations in the Co III Co II redox couple are observed upon exposure to pyridine and with changing pyridine concentrations. U.S. Pat. No. 5 250 439 reports the use of conductive sensors to determine the presence or concentration of a predetermined analyte in a test sample by measuring the change in conductivity of a layer of an organic conducting polymer. This conductivity change results from generating a dopant compound that migrates to the detection zone of the conductive sensor to dope the layer of conducting polymer. One example describes the dopant compound as including molecular iodine formed in a reaction between iodide ions a peroxidase enzyme or a molybdenum VI catalyst in the reaction zone of the device to determine the presence or concentration of glucose. U.S. Pat. No. 4 992 244 discloses a chemical microsensor fabricated by using Langmuir Blodgett techniques. The chemical microsensor is a film based on dithiolene transition metal complexes which display differing degrees of current changes upon exposure to a particular gas or vapor and its concentration. U.S. Pat. No. 6 323 309 to Swager et al. describes conducting polymer transition metal hybrid materials. Materials described by Swager include but are not limited to 5 Tributylstannyl 2 2 bithiophene 5 5 Bis 5 bi 2 2 thienyl 2 2 bipyridine 2 Tributylstannyl 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene 5 5 Bis 3 4 ethylenedioxythienyl 2 2 bipyridine 5 5 Bis 2 5 bromo 3 4 ethylenedioxythienyl 2 2 bipyridine 5 5 Bis 5 2 2 bi 3 4 ethylenedioxythienyl 2 2 bipyridine Rot 1 Zn ClO Rot 1 Cu BF Rot 3 Zn ClO Rot 2 Zn ClO Rot 2 Cu BF 3 4 Ethylenedioxy 2 2 bithiophene 2 Tributylstannyl 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene 5 2 Thienyl salicylaldehyde 5 2 3 4 Ethylenedioxy thienyl salicylaldehyde N N Ethylenebis 5 2 thienyl salicylidenimine N N Ethylenebis 5 2 3 4 ethienedioxy thienyl salicylidenimine N N Ethylenebis 5 2 thienyl salicylideniminato cobalt II N N Ethylenebis 5 2 3 4 ethylenedioxy thienyl salicylideniminato cobalt II 6 combinations thereof and the like.

In embodiments of the present invention where particles or nano structures are fabricated as individual discrete nano particles in the patterned templates the nano particles often need to be harvested from the cavities of the patterned templates before they can be used or applied to photovoltaic devices. Nano particle harvesting methods include methods described in the applicants co pending published PCT patent applications referenced herein. According to some methods as shown in discrete nano particles are fabricated in mold as described herein. Prior to or following treatment for solidifying nano particles harvesting layer having an affinity for particles is put into contact with particles while particles remain in connection with mold . Harvesting layer generally has a higher affinity for particles than the affinity between mold and particles . In the disassociation of harvesting layer from mold thereby releases particles from mold leaving particles attached to harvesting layer .

In one embodiment harvesting layer has an affinity for particles . For example in some embodiments harvesting layer includes an adhesive or sticky surface when applied to mold . In other embodiments harvesting layer undergoes a transformation after it is brought into contact with mold . In some embodiments that transformation is an inherent characteristic of harvesting layer . In other embodiments harvesting layer is treated to induce the transformation. For example in one embodiment harvesting layer is an epoxy that hardens after it is brought into contact with mold . Thus when mold is pealed away from the hardened epoxy particles remain engaged with the epoxy and not mold . In other embodiments harvesting layer is water that is cooled to form ice. Thus when mold is stripped from the ice particles remain in communication with the ice and not mold . In one embodiment the particle containing ice can be melted to create a liquid with a concentration of particles . In some embodiments harvesting layer includes without limitation one or more of a carbohydrate an epoxy a wax polyvinyl alcohol polyvinyl pyrrolidone polybutyl acrylate a polycyano acrylate and polymethyl methacrylate. In some embodiments harvesting layer includes without limitation one or more of liquids solutions powders granulated materials semi solid materials suspensions combinations thereof or the like.

Particles or nano scale structures can be harvested from the patterned template by kinetic transfer such as adhesion to a PDMS layer as shown in . A layer of PDMS is pressed slowly against the patterned template mold containing particles then the PDMS layer is quickly removed. The PDMS layer adheres to the particles and removes them from mold .

According to yet another embodiment the particles and or patterned array structure are harvested on a fast dissolving substrate sheet or films. The film forming agents can include but are not limited to pullulan hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose polyvinyl pyrrolidone carboxymethyl cellulose polyvinyl alcohol sodium alginate polyethylene glycol xanthan gum tragacanth gum guar gum acacia gum arabic gum polyacrylic acid methylmethacrylate copolymer carboxyvinyl polymer amylose high amylose starch hydroxypropylated high amylose starch dextrin pectin chitin chitosan levan elsinan collagen gelatin zein gluten soy protein isolate whey protein isolate casein combinations thereof and the like.

In some embodiments the method includes harvesting or collecting the particles. In some embodiments the harvesting or collecting of the particles includes a process selected from the group including scraping with a doctor blade a brushing process a dissolution process an ultrasound process a megasonics process an electrostatic process and a magnetic process. In some embodiments the harvesting or collecting of the particles includes applying a material to at least a portion of a surface of the particle wherein the material has an affinity for the particles. In some embodiments the material includes an adhesive or sticky surface. In some embodiments the material includes without limitation one or more of a carbohydrate an epoxy a wax polyvinyl alcohol polyvinyl pyrrolidone polybutyl acrylate a polycyano acrylate a polyacrylic acid and polymethyl methacrylate. In some embodiments the harvesting or collecting of the particles includes cooling water to form ice e.g. in contact with the particles . In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a particle or plurality of particles formed by the methods described herein. In some embodiments the plurality of particles includes a plurality of monodisperse particles. In some embodiments the particle or plurality of particles is selected from the group including a semiconductor device a crystal a drug delivery vector a gene delivery vector a disease detecting device a disease locating device a photovoltaic device a porogen a cosmetic an electret an additive a catalyst a sensor a detoxifying agent an abrasive such as a CMP a micro electro mechanical system MEMS a cellular scaffold a taggant a pharmaceutical agent and a biomarker. In some embodiments the particle or plurality of particles include a freestanding structure.

According to some embodiments a structure structured layer or particle formed according to disclosed methods and techniques herein can have a shape corresponding to a mold of a desired shape and geometry. According to other embodiments nano particles or nano structures of many predetermined regular and predetermined irregular shape and size configurations and patterned arrays can be made with the materials and methods of the presently disclosed subject matter. Examples of representative particle and or array structure shapes that can be made using the materials and methods of the presently disclosed subject matter include but are not limited to non spherical spherical viral shaped bacteria shaped cell shaped rod shaped e.g. where the rod is less than about 200 nm in diameter chiral shaped right triangle shaped flat shaped e.g. with a thickness of about 2 nm disc shaped with a thickness of greater than about 2 nm or the like boomerang shaped combinations thereof and the like. Referring now to cross section SEM images of master templates are shown in sizes 100 nm 200 nm and 400 nm heights. Also shown in are replicate structure arrays molded from alternative masters showing high fidelity predetermined structure size shape and arrangement obtained according to materials and methods of the present invention. Structures replicate molded with structure sizes less than 50 nm are shown in . According to TiOmaterials of the present invention are shown replicate molded with structures having high fidelity and predetermined shape size and orientation according to embodiments of the present invention.

In some embodiments the material from which the particles are formed includes without limitation one or more of a polymer a liquid polymer a solution a monomer a plurality of monomers a polymerization initiator a polymerization catalyst an inorganic precursor an organic material an electron donating material an electron accepting material photovoltaic materials a natural product a metal precursor a magnetic material a paramagnetic material superparamagnetic material a charged species combinations thereof or the like.

Representative superparamagnetic or paramagnetic materials include but are not limited to FeO FeO FePt Co MnFeO CoFeO CuFeO NiFeOand ZnS doped with Mn for magneto optical applications CdSe for optical applications and borates for boron neutron capture treatment. In some embodiments the liquid material is selected from one of a resist polymer and a low k dielectric. In some embodiments the liquid material includes a non wetting agent.

In some embodiments the monomer includes butadienes styrenes propene acrylates methacrylates vinyl ketones vinyl esters vinyl acetates vinyl chlorides vinyl fluorides vinyl ethers acrylonitrile methacrylnitrile acrylamide methacrylamide allyl acetates fumarates maleates ethylenes propylenes tetrafluoroethylene ethers isobutylene fumaronitrile vinyl alcohols acrylic acids amides carbohydrates esters urethanes siloxanes formaldehyde phenol urea melamine isoprene isocyanates epoxides bisphenol A alcohols chlorosilanes dihalides dienes alkyl olefins ketones aldehydes vinylidene chloride anhydrides saccharide acetylenes naphthalenes pyridines lactams lactones acetals thiiranes episulfide peptides derivatives thereof and combinations thereof.

In yet other embodiments the polymer includes polyamides proteins polyesters polystyrene polyethers polyketones polysulfones polyurethanes polysiloxanes polysilanes cellulose amylose polyacetals polyethylene glycols poly acrylate s poly methacrylate s poly vinyl alcohol poly vinylidene chloride poly vinyl acetate poly ethylene glycol polystyrene polyisoprene polyisobutylenes poly vinyl chloride poly propylene poly lactic acid polyisocyanates polycarbonates alkyds phenolics epoxy resins polysulfides polyimides liquid crystal polymers heterocyclic polymers polypeptides conducting polymers including polyacetylene polyquinoline polyaniline polypyrrole polythiophene and poly p phenylene dendimers fluoropolymers derivatives thereof combinations thereof.

In still further embodiments the material from which the particles are formed includes a non wetting agent. According to another embodiment the material is a liquid material in a single phase. In other embodiments the liquid material includes a plurality of phases. In some embodiments the liquid material includes without limitation one or more of multiple liquids multiple immiscible liquids surfactants dispersions emulsions micro emulsions micelles particulates colloids porogens active ingredients combinations thereof or the like.

In some embodiments additional components are included with the material of the nano scale particle or structures to functionalize the particle. According to these embodiments the additional components can be encased within the isolated structures partially encased within the isolated structures on the exterior surface of the isolated structures combinations thereof or the like. Additional components can include but are not limited to electron accepting materials electron donating materials electrically conductive materials biologic materials metals semiconducting materials insulating materials combinations thereof and the like.

The present invention includes methods for forming multilayer structures including multilayer nano particles multilayer electron accepting and or donating materials multilayer photovoltaic structures and the like. In some embodiments multilayer structures are formed by depositing multiple thin layers of immisible liquids and or solutions onto a substrate and forming nano particles or nano structures as described by any of the methods herein. The immiscibility of the liquid can be based on any physical characteristic including but not limited to density polarity volatility and combinations thereof. Examples of possible morphologies include but are not limited to multi phase sandwich structures core shell particles internal emulsions microemulsions and or nano sized emulsions combinations thereof and the like.

More particularly in some embodiments the method includes disposing a plurality of immiscible liquids between the patterned template and substrate to form a multilayer structure e.g. a multilayer nanostructure. In some embodiments the multilayer structures are multilayer discrete predetermined nano particles or nano structures. In some embodiments the multilayer structure includes a structure selected from the group including multi phase sandwich structures core shell particles internal emulsions microemulsions and nanosized emulsions.

According to some embodiments particles or nano scale array structures fabricated from the materials and methods of the present invention can be delivered straight to a formulation or composite final product rather than initially collecting the particles. According to such methods following processes of the present invention for fabricating particles the particles are generally in an addressable 2 D array and physically separated. While the particles are generally uniformly separated directly upon removal from the patterned template the particles can be directly incorporated into a final product to reduce agglomeration issue in a photovoltaic device.

Each reference cited herein is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety including each reference cited therein.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold can be generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold can be used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area.

The apparatus can then be subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Next the fully cured PFPE DMA mold is released from the silicon master. Separately an ITO glass substrate will be pre treated with acetone and isopropanol in an ultrasonic bath followed by cleaning for 10 minutes with oxygen plasma. The ITO substrate will be then treated with a non wetting silane agent and an adhesion promoter. Following this the electron donor material will be blended with a photoinitiator a sample placed on the treated ITO substrate and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate will then be placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure applied to ensure conformal contact and to push out excess donor material. The entire apparatus will then be subjected to UV light while under a nitrogen purge. Next the PFPE mold can be separated from the treated ITO substrate. A solution of the electron acceptor material can then be spin coated onto the electron donor material followed by deposition of a metal cathode onto the electron acceptor material.

It is desirable that the electron donor material is either photo or thermal curable. It is also desirable that the electron acceptor material can be spin coated as a solution onto the donor features where the solvent used does not dissolve or swell the electron donor material.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold can be generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold can be used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area.

The apparatus will then be subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Next the fully cured PFPE DMA mold is released from the silicon master. Separately an ITO glass substrate will be pre treated with acetone and isopropanol in an ultrasonic bath followed by cleaning for 10 minutes with oxygen plasma. Using organic vapor phase deposition OVPD copper phthalocyanine CuPc can be deposited onto the PFPE mold so that the features are filled and a uniform layer of CuPc connects each feature. The ITO substrate can then be treated with an adhesion promoter and the embossed film will be transferred from the mold onto the substrate. Next 3 4 9 10 perlenetetracarboxylic bis benzimidazole PTCBI will be deposited onto the CuPc features using OVPD. Note both depositions are performed under an inert atmosphere. A 100 A thick exciton blocking and electron conducting layer of bathocuproine BCP and a 1 000 A thick silver cathode are then grown by conventional vacuum thermal evaporation to complete the photovoltaic cell.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the 365 nm for 10 desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately 1 g of Pluronic P123 and 0.519 of EuCl3.6H2O are dissolved in 12 g of absolute ethanol. This solution was added to a solution of 2.7 mL of concentrated hydrochloric acid and 3.88 mL titanium IV ethoxide. Flat uniform surfaces are generated by treating a silicon silicon oxide wafer with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution and drying. Following this 50 L of the sol gel solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess sol gel precursor. The entire apparatus is then set aside until the sol gel precursor has solidified. Oxide structures are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to 365 nm for the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately TMPTA is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces capable of adhering to the resist material are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution and treating the wafer with a mixture of an adhesion promoter trimethoxysilyl propyl methacryalte and a non wetting silane agent 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl trimethoxysilane . The mixture can range from 100 of the adhesion promoter to 100 of the non wetting silane. Following this 50 L of TMPTA is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to ensure a conformal contact and to push out excess TMPTA. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Features are light observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using atomic force microscopy AFM and scanning electron microscopy SEM .

The sol precursor of TiOwas prepared by the following procedure. A round bottom RB flask equipped with a stir bar was dried at 110 C oven before use. The RB was capped with a rubber septum and purged with nitrogen. Titanium n butoxide 5 mL was added to the RB under nitrogen flow. Acetylacetone 3.5 mL was added dropwise to the reaction flask followed by the addition of isopropanol 4 mL . Acetatic acid 0.12 mL was added dropwise under nitrogen atmosphere to form a clean yellow mixture. The sol precursor was stirred at room temperature for 3 hr before use. To make patterned TiO an aliquot of the sol precursor was added onto a ITO or FTO coated substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 200 nm by 200 nm features was put on top of the sol solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at 110 C. oven for 3 hr. After cooling down the TiOprecursor had been converted to a xerogel and the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate. shows the SEM image of patterned TiOxerogel prepared by this process. To convert TiOto the anatase form the ITO FTO substrate with patterned TiOxerogel was heated to 450 C. at a heating rate of 4 C. min and kept at 450 C. for 1 hr.

The crystalline form of the calcinated TiOwas confirmed by XRD. shows an SEM image of the patterned TiOin the anatase form after calcination.

The sol precursor of ZnO was prepared by the following procedure. In a vial mix 7.19 mL 2 methoxyethanol and 0.27 mL mono ethanol amine and stir the mixture to form a colorless solution. Add 1 g zinc acetate dihydrate to the solution mixture and stir at room temperature for 1 hr or until a homogeneous solution was formed. To make patterned ZnO an aliquot of the sol precursor was added onto a glass substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 2 micron features was put on top of the sol solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at 100 C. oven for 2 hr. After cooling down the ZnO precursor had been converted to a xerogel and the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate. shows the SEM image of patterned ZnO xerogel prepared by this process. To convert ZnO to the crystalline form the glass substrate with patterned ZnO xerogel was heated to 500 C. at a heating rate of 10 C. min and kept at 500 C. for 1 hr. The crystalline form of the calcinated ZnO was confirmed by XRD.

The sol precursor of ZnO was prepared by the following procedure. In a vial mix 7.19 mL 2 methoxyethanol and 0.27 mL mono ethanol amine and stir the mixture to form a colorless solution. Add 1 g zinc acetate dihydrate to the solution mixture and stir at room temperature for 1 hr or until a homogeneous solution was formed. To make patterned ZnO an aliquot of the sol precursor was added onto a glass substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 200 nm by 200 nm features was put on top of the sol solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at 100 C. oven for 2 hr. After cooling down the ZnO precursor had been converted to a xerogel and the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate. shows the SEM image of patterned ZnO xerogel prepared by this process. To convert ZnO to the crystalline form the glass substrate with patterned ZnO xerogel was heated to 500 C. at a heating rate of 10 C. min and kept at 500 C. for 1 hr. The crystalline form of the calcinated ZnO was confirmed by XRD. shows an SEM image of the patterned ZnO after the calcinations of Example 7.

The sol precursor of ZnO was prepared by the following procedure. In a vial mix 5.7 mL 2 methoxyethanol and 0.27 mL mono ethanol amine and stir the mixture to form a colorless solution. Add 1 g zinc acetate dihydrate to the solution mixture and stir at 60 C. for 30 min to form a clear solution. To make patterned ZnO an aliquot of the sol precursor was added onto a glass substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 3 micron features was put on top of the sol solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at 100 C. oven for 2 hr. After cooling down the ZnO precursor had been converted to a xerogel and the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate. shows the SEM image of patterned ZnO xerogel prepared by this process. To convert ZnO to the crystalline form the glass substrate with patterned ZnO xerogel was heated to 500 C. at a heating rate of 10 C. min and kept at 500 C. for 1 hr. The crystalline form of the calcinated ZnO was confirmed by XRD as shown in .

The sol precursor of ZnO was prepared by the following procedure. In a vial mix 5.7 mL 2 methoxyethanol and 0.27 mL mono ethanol amine and stir the mixture to form a colorless solution. Add 1 g zinc acetate dihydrate to the solution mixture and stir at 60 C. for 30 min to form a clear solution. To make patterned ZnO an aliquot of the sol precursor was added onto a glass substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 200 nm features was put on top of the sol solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at 100 C. oven for 2 hr. After cooling down the ZnO precursor had been converted to a xerogel and the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate. shows the SEM image of patterned ZnO xerogel prepared by this process. To convert ZnO to the crystalline form the glass substrate with patterned ZnO xerogel was heated to 500 C. at a heating rate of 10 C. min and kept at 500 C. for 1 hr. The crystalline form of the calcinated ZnO was confirmed by XRD as shown in .

The sol precursor of Indium doped ZnO was prepared by the following procedure. In a vial mix 7.19 mL 2 methoxyethanol and 0.27 mL mono ethanol amine and stir the mixture to form a colorless solution. Add 1 g zinc acetate dihydrate to the solution mixture and stir at room temperature for 1 hr. Indium chloride 3 g was then added to the ZnO sol precursor and the mixture was stirred until it became a homogeneous solution. To make patterned In ZnO an aliquot of the sol precursor was added onto a glass substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 2 micron features was put on top of the sol solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at 100 C. oven for 2 hr. After cooling down the In ZnO precursor had been converted to a xerogel and the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate. shows the SEM image of patterned In ZnO xerogel prepared by this process. To convert In ZnO to the crystalline form the glass substrate with patterned In ZnO xerogel was heated to 500 C. at a heating rate of 10 C. min and kept at 500 C. for 1 hr. The crystalline form of the calcinated In ZnO was confirmed by XRD as shown in .

The sol precursor of Indium doped ZnO was prepared by the following procedure. In a vial mix 7.19 mL 2 methoxyethanol and 0.27 mL mono ethanol amine and stir the mixture to form a colorless solution. Add 1 g zinc acetate dihydrate to the solution mixture and stir at room temperature for 1 hr. Indium chloride 3 g was then added to the ZnO sol precursor and the mixture was stirred until it became a homogeneous solution. To make patterned In ZnO an aliquot of the sol precursor was added onto a glass substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 200 nm features was put on top of the sol solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at 100 C. oven for 2 hr. After cooling down the In ZnO precursor had been converted to a xerogel and the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate. shows the SEM image of patterned In ZnO xerogel prepared by this process. To convert In ZnO to the crystalline form the glass substrate with patterned In ZnO xerogel was heated to 500 C. at a heating rate of 10 C. min and kept at 500 C. for 1 hr. The crystalline form of the calcinated In ZnO was confirmed by XRD as shown in .

The sol precursor of ITO was prepared by the following procedure. In vial A add 2.05 g Indium nitrate pentahydrate 0.15 g tin chloride pentahydrate 3.16 g acetylacetone and 0.009 g water and stir the mixture at 50 C. for 2 hr. In vial B mix 0.8514 g benzoylacetone and 20 g 2 methoxyethanol and stir at room temperature for 2 hr. Then mix the solutions in vial A and B and stir at room temperature for at least 8 hr before use. To make patterned ITO an aliquot of the sol precursor was added onto a glass substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 3 micron features was put on top of the sol solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at 90 C. oven for 2 hr. After cooling down the ITO precursor had been converted to a xerogel and the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate. To convert ITO to the crystalline form the glass substrate with patterned ITO was heated to 600 C. at a heating rate of 10 C. min and kept at 600 C. for 1 hr. The crystalline form of the calcinated ITO was confirmed by XRD. shows SEM images of the patterned ITO fabricated from this Example before and after calcinations.

The sol precursor of ITO was prepared by the following procedure. In vial A add 2.05 g Indium nitrate pentahydrate 0.15 g tin chloride pentahydrate 3.16 g acetylacetone and 0.009 g water and stir the mixture at 50 C. for 2 hr. In vial B mix 0.8514 g benzoylacetone and 20 g 2 methoxyethanol and stir at room temperature for 2 hr. Then mix the solutions in vial A and B and stir at room temperature for at least 8 hr before use. To make patterned ITO an aliquot of the sol precursor was added onto a glass substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 200 nm features was put on top of the sol solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at 90 C. oven for 2 hr. After cooling down the ITO precursor had been converted to a xerogel and the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate. To convert ITO to the crystalline form the glass substrate with patterned ITO was heated to 600 C. at a heating rate of 10 C. min and kept at 600 C. for 1 hr. The crystalline form of the calcinated ITO was confirmed by XRD. shows SEM images of the patterned ITO fabricated according to this Example before and after calcinations.

An aliquot of TiOnano rod anatase form dispersion in chloroform was added onto a glass substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 200 nm by 200 nm features was put on top of the dispersion. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at room temperature for 1 hr. After solvent evaporation the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate and the anatase TiOnano rods from hollow structures shown by the SEM in with a outer diameter of about 200 nm an inner diameter of 50 100 and a height of 50 80 nm.

An aliquot of TiOnano rod anatase form dispersion in chloroform was added onto a glass substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 200 nm by 600 nm features was put on top of the dispersion. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at room temperature for 1 hr. After solvent evaporation the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate and the anatase TiOnano rods from hollow structures shown by the SEM of with a outer diameter of about 200 nm an inner diameter of 50 100 and a height of 150 200 nm.

10.8 mg P3HT was added into 0.6 mL chloroform to form a homogeneous solution. An aliquot of the P3HT solution was added onto a glass or PET substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 2 micron 200 nm by 200 nm or 200 nm by 600 nm features was put on top of the solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at room temperature for 1 hr. After solvent evaporation the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate and patterned P3HT was formed on the substrate. shows an SEM image of the patterned P3HT by such solution process of this Example.

10.8 mg P3HT was added into 0.6 mL chloroform to form a homogeneous solution. An aliquot of the P3HT solution was added onto a glass or PET substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold made from a AAO template with a pore diameter of 70 nm or 40 nm was put on top of the solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at room temperature for 1 hr. After solvent evaporation the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate and patterned P3HT was formed on the substrate. shows an SEM image of the patterned P3HT by such solution process of this Example.

12 mg P3HT was dissolved in 0.6 mL chloroform to form a homogeneous solution. A thin layer of P3HT on glass or a PET substrate was formed by spreading a uniform layer of P3HT solution using Meyer rod and wait for the solvent to evaporate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 200 nm by 200 nm or 200 nm by 600 nm features was brought into contact with the P3HT layer on glass or PET substrate and kept under pressure in a vice. The whole apparatus was kept in 200 C. oven for 15 min. After cooling down the FLUOROCUR mold was removed and patterned P3HT was formed on the substrate. shows SEM images of the thermally patterned P3HT on a glass or PET substrate of this Example.

22 mg PCBM was added into 0.65 mL chloroform to form a homogeneous solution. An aliquot of the PCBM solution was added onto a glass or PET substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 2 micron 200 nm by 200 nm or 200 nm by 600 nm features was put on top of the solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at room temperature for 1 hr. After solvent evaporation the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate and patterned PCBM was formed on the substrate. shows SEM images of the patterned PCBM by such solution process of this Example.

22 mg PCBM was added into 0.65 mL chloroform to form a homogeneous solution. An aliquot of the PCBM solution was added onto a glass or PET substrate. A piece of FLUOROCUR mold with 200 nm by 600 nm features was put on top of the solution. The apparatus was put in a vice under pressure and kept at room temperature for 1 hr. After solvent evaporation the FLUOROCUR mold was removed from the substrate and patterned PCBM was formed on the substrate.

11 mg P3HT was dissolved in 0.6 mL chloroform to form a homogeneous solution. A thin layer of P3HT on a PET substrate was formed by spreading a uniform layer of P3HT solution using Meyer rod and wait for the solvent to evaporate. The P3HT covered PET substrate was brought into contact with the patterned PCBM and kept under pressure in a vice. The whole apparatus was kept in 200 C. oven for 15 min. After cooling down the PET substrate was removed and the patterned PCBM and P3HT form inter digitized network. shows the cross sectional SEM image of the network fabricated from this Example.

