---

title: Waterjet propulsor with shaft fairing device
abstract: The invention is directed to a waterjet propulsor. The propulsor includes a structure covering an impeller shaft. The implementation of the elongated structure results in reduced drag, increased thrust and increased craft speed. The elongated structure may be a sleeve that is mounted in a free-floating arrangement over the impeller shaft that self-aligns, the sleeve having an airfoil cross section for optimizing the flow of water over the shaft. The elongated structure may also be a fixed housing arrangement that includes an airfoil cross section for optimizing the flow of water over the shaft.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08932092&OS=08932092&RS=08932092
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08932092
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130618
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a waterjet propulsor more particularly an elongated sleeve or housing covering the impeller shaft the elongated sleeve or housing being free floating or fixed and having an airfoil section for optimizing the flow over the shaft thereby increasing propulsive efficiency.

The efficiency of existing marine waterjet propulsor designs are limited and optimum efficiency has to be tailored to a specific operating condition of the marine vehicle in which the propulsor is to be installed. The efficiency ofpropulsors vary with vehicle speed and decreases substantially at off design conditions particularly at lower craft speeds. Even while operating at optimum efficiency and the intended design conditions existing waterjet designs suffer from areas of poor flow quality uneven pressure distributions flow circulation flow separation and impeller cavitation. These undesirable attributes limit fluid mass flow and velocity thereby reducing potential thrust for any given power input. Many of these effects are directly attributable to the multitude of negative influences arising from the positioning and geometry of the waterjet impeller shaft.

The turbulence introduced is due to the location of the shaft the shape of the shaft and the rotational movement of the shaft. As shown in the impeller shaft is positioned directly in the path of the intake fluids thereby obstructing the flow into the impeller blades . Being a right circular cylinder the cross sectional shape of the impeller shaft possesses one of the highest drag coefficients for a non blunt object. shows the character of the drag coefficient as a function of Reynolds number for fluid flow over objects of different cross sectional shapes including that of a circle and an ellipse. It should be noted that in actuality because of the angle shown in at which the flow approaches the shaft the shaft cross section over which flow occurs may be more akin to an ellipse which is more efficient than a circle but less efficient than an airfoil.

Additionally as opposed to the simple case of flow over an immersed stationary cylinder or ellipse the surface of shaft is not stationary but rotating. Consequently additional detrimental boundary layer effects associated with the tangential velocity of the shaft surface are introduced due to the shaft rotation Magnus effect . The prior art does not provide a propulsor structure that minimizes the deleterious effects of the shaft to optimize the operation of the propulsor.

In one aspect the invention is a waterjet propulsor having a frame with a forward end an aft end an upper end and a lower end. The waterjet propulsor also has a nozzle assembly located at the aft end of the frame. In this aspect the waterjet propulsor also includes an impeller assembly. The impeller assembly has a forward impeller bearing arrangement at the forward end of the frame an aft impeller bearing arrangement at the aft end of the frame and an impeller shaft extending from the forward end of the frame to the aft end of the frame in a longitudinal direction X and mounted within each of the forward impeller bearing arrangement and the aft impeller bearing arrangement. The impeller assembly also includes an impeller blade assembly having a central hub and a plurality of blades attached to the central hub wherein the central hub is supported on the impeller shaft. In this aspect the waterjet propulsor has a water intake extending from the lower end of the frame towards the impeller the water intake having intake walls forming a conduit wherein the conduit is angled to create an intake flow Fhaving flow vectors in perpendicular X Y and Z axes and wherein intake flow Fin the X Y plane impinges on the impeller shaft at an angle with respect to the longitudinal direction X of the shaft. The invention also includes an elongated structure positioned over the impeller shaft wherein the elongated structure has an airfoil cross section in the Y Z plane. The elongated structure also has an offset streamlined airfoil cross section aligned with the intake flow angle so that the intake flow Fflows over the elongated structure in a path defined by the offset streamlined airfoil cross section thereby minimizing the deleterious flow effects caused by the shaft and increasing the efficiency of the propulsor.

In another aspect the invention is a method of optimizing the flow within a waterjet propulsor. The method includes the step of providing a waterjet propulsor having a frame having a forward end an aft end an upper end and a lower end. The waterjet propulsor is also provided with a nozzle assembly located at the aft end of the frame and an impeller assembly. The impeller assembly includes a forward impeller bearing arrangement at the forward end of the frame an aft impeller bearing arrangement at the aft end of the frame an impeller shaft extending from the forward end of the frame to the aft end of the frame in a longitudinal direction X and mounted within each of the forward impeller bearing arrangement and the aft impeller bearing arrangement. In this aspect the impeller assembly includes an impeller blade assembly having a central hub and a plurality of blades attached to the central hub wherein the central hub is supported on the impeller shaft. In this aspect the propulsor also includes a water intake extending from the lower end of the frame towards the impeller the water intake having intake walls forming a conduit wherein the conduit is angled to create an intake flow Fhaving flow vectors in perpendicular X Y and Z axes. The method further includes the step of providing an elongated structure positioned over the impeller shaft wherein the elongated structure has an airfoil cross section in the Y Z plane. The method also includes the directing of the intake flow Fhaving intake flow vector Fin the X Y plane into the waterjet propulsor the intake flow Fimpinging on the impeller shaft at an angle with respect to the longitudinal direction X of the shaft. The elongated structure further comprises an offset streamlined airfoil cross section aligned with the intake flow angle so that the intake flow Fflows over the elongated structure in a path defined by offset streamlined airfoil cross section thereby minimizing the deleterious flow effects caused by the shaft and increasing the efficiency of the propulsor.

In another aspect the invention is an elongated sleeve for optimizing flow in a waterjet propulsor having a frame with a forward end an aft end an upper end and a lower end a nozzle assembly located at the aft end of the frame and an impeller assembly. The impeller assembly has a forward impeller bearing arrangement at the forward end of the frame an aft impeller bearing arrangement at the aft end of the frame an impeller shaft extending from the forward end of the frame to the aft end of the frame in a longitudinal direction X and mounted within each of the forward impeller bearing arrangement and the aft impeller bearing arrangement. The impeller assembly also includes an impeller blade assembly having a central hub and a plurality of blades attached to the central hub wherein the central hub is supported on the impeller shaft. The waterjet propulsor also has a water intake extending from the lower end of the frame towards the impeller the water intake having intake walls forming a conduit wherein the conduit is angled to create an intake flow Fhaving flow vectors in perpendicular X Y and Z axes and wherein intake flow Fin the X Y plane impinges on the impeller shaft at an angle with respect to the longitudinal direction X of the shaft the elongated sleeve positioned over the impeller shaft and having an airfoil cross section in the Y Z plane the elongated sleeve further having an NACA 0030 offset streamlined airfoil cross section aligned with the intake flow angle so that the intake flow Fflows over elongated sleeve in a path defined by offset streamlined airfoil cross sections thereby minimizing the deleterious flow effects caused by the shaft and increasing the efficiency of the propulsor.

As illustrated the propulsor includes an intake located at the lower end of the frame. shows intake walls forming an angled intake conduit . also shows a stator nozzle assembly located at the aft end of the propulsor . Arrow Fshows the intake flow of water entering the waterjet propulsor as water enters through the intake . The intake flow Fincludes flow vectors in the three perpendicular directions X Y and Z. The intake flow Fshown represents the flow vectors in the X Y plane. The flow vectors in a Z direction are not illustrated in . Because of the orientation of the intake walls and conduit formed therebetween the intake flow Fapproaches the elongated sleeve which covers the impeller shaft at an angle in the X Y plane as opposed to directly in the Y direction. Arrows Frepresent the outflow of water that passes through the stator nozzle assembly . The outflow Fshown is the output flow and also includes flow vectors in the three perpendicular X Y and Z axes. The Farrow shows the outflow in the X Y plane. As stated above the flow vectors in a Z direction are not illustrated in .

As shown a large portion of the intake flow Fis interrupted by the presence of the elongated sleeve which extends into the Fpath. shows an elongated sleeve positioned over the shaft . As outlined below the sleeve is mounted to rotate freely with respect to the shaft and as shown in the elongated sleeve has a geometry having an airfoil cross section in the Y Z plane. As outlined below the elongated sleeve also includes an offset streamlined airfoil cross section aligned with the intake flow Fpath so that the intake flow Fflows over the elongated structure in a path defined by the offset streamlined airfoil cross section thereby minimizing the deleterious flow effects caused by the shaft and increasing the efficiency of the propulsor. Also outlined below is the rotational adjustability of the elongated sleeve in the Y Z plane thereby aligning the elongated sleeve with intake flow.

In operation water fills the running clearance and acts as a lubricant further facilitating the free floating of the elongated sleeve on the shaft . The shaft is also freely rotatable within the sleeve . Axial movement of the elongated sleeve along the shaft is prevented by abutment portions shown in of the frame structure at the forward end of the sleeve and by the impeller hub at the aft end of the sleeve . As outlined below with respect to this free floating arrangement allows for the automatic rotational alignment of the elongated sleeve self alignment with respect to Z direction vectors in the intake flow F automatically adjusting to variations in the intake flow path. The drag friction created by flow over the elongated sleeve forces the self alignment of the elongated sleeve in a manner similar to how a weather anemometer self aligns to the wind. is an exemplary illustration of an elongated sleeve showing the angular relation between the elongated sleeve and the intake flow path F according to an embodiment of the invention. The intake flow Fshown in represents the flow vectors in the X Y plane. also shows a longitudinal axis extending longitudinally in the X direction through the center of an opening shown in . shows a sectional view through B B of the elongated sleeve taken normal to axis representing a view in the Y Z plane. The illustrated section shows the elongated sleeve having an airfoil profile with a circular opening for receiving the shaft therethrough.

Returning to as shown the intake flow Fapproaches the sleeve at an angle with respect to the longitudinal axis . shows a sectional view through C C of sleeve taken at the angle at which the intake flow Fapproaches the sleeve . The illustrated section is an offset streamlined section defined by the path taken by the intake flow Fas it travels over the elongated sleeve . In other words the section is an offset airfoil section that coincides with the intake flow direction. According to an embodiment of the invention the section may have a NACA 0030 profile. It should be noted that the intake flow Fand angle as illustrated is representative of a plurality of flow components f f f. . . f and corresponding angles . . . where N is an integer. shows these flow components and angles and is an explanatory illustration of the intake flow FIapproaching the elongated sleeve according to an embodiment of the invention. Because of the orientation of the intake walls and conduit formed there between in operation each flow component f f f. . . f approaches at respective . . . angles. The . . . angles may vary along the length of the elongated sleeve however the path of each component is generally as illustrated in . Thus regardless of the actual value of each . . . angle each flow component follows an offset streamlined airfoil path as shown in as opposed to the more squat and less streamlined cross section shown in . This offset streamlined airfoil path minimizes the deleterious flow effects caused by the shaft and improves the efficiency of the propulsor.

As stated above regarding the illustrations of the intake flow Fshown represents the flow vectors in the X Y plane. The elongated sleeve has a short and squat airfoil section in the Y Z plane but because of the intake flow angle the intake flow Ffollows the offset streamlined airfoil path as shown in . This offset streamlined airfoil path minimizes the deleterious flow effects caused by the shaft and improves the efficiency of the propulsor. However additional alignment is required to accommodate for Z direction flow vectors. This additional alignment is necessary to optimize the flow over the elongated sleeve and in particular to optimize the flow in the offset streamlined airfoil path.

As stated above and as illustrated in the elongated sleeve is in a free floating arrangement with respect to the shaft . In operation the elongated sleeve self aligns to make the angular adjustment from position to position . As outlined with respect to the operating fluid in the running clearance acts as a lubricant during the aligning movements of the free floating elongated sleeve . The self aligning function is achieved due to the friction drag forces created by the intake flow F. Consequently during operation the free floating arrangement allows for continuous adjustments due to any variation in the intake flow F.

Returning to as shown the intake flow Fapproaches the elongated structure which covers the shaft at an angle with respect to the longitudinal axis . shows a sectional view through C C of elongated structure taken at the angle at which the intake flow F x approaches the elongated structure . The illustrated section is an offset streamlined section defined by the path taken by the intake flow Fas it travels over the elongated structure . In other words the section is an offset airfoil section that coincides with the intake flow direction. According to an embodiment of the invention the offset streamlined section may have a NACA 0030 profile. It should be noted that the intake flow Fand angle as illustrated is representative of a plurality of flow components f f f. . . f and corresponding angles . . . where N is an integer as outlined above with respect to . Thus the explanation of the flow with respect to also applies here. It should also be noted because of the arrangement outline in the intake flow is takes the path defined by the offset streamlined section C similar to what is illustrated in . This minimizes the deleterious flow effects caused by the shaft and increases the efficiency of the propulsor.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

