---

title: Scenario analyzer plug-in framework
abstract: A system can include a framework for scenario-based assessment of a physical environment; and an integrator that includes an analyzer component for identifying an analyzer as one of a plurality of identifiable analyzers, a scenario component for framework and analyzer interactions for a scenario, and a results component for framework and analyzer interactions with respect to analyzer results for the scenario. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08942960&OS=08942960&RS=08942960
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 08942960
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130305
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 609 185 filed 9 Mar. 2012 entitled Scenario Analyzer Plug In Framework which is incorporated by reference herein.

Various types of modules frameworks etc. exist for modeling geological formations reservoirs sedimentary basins etc. Various methods devices systems etc. are described herein that pertain to such technologies.

A system can include a framework for scenario based assessment of a physical environment and an integrator that includes an analyzer component for identifying an analyzer as one of a plurality of identifiable analyzers a scenario component for framework and analyzer interactions for a scenario and a results component for framework and analyzer interactions with respect to analyzer results for the scenario. A method can include providing a framework for scenario based assessment of a physical environment and an integrator that includes an analyzer component a scenario component and a results component identifying an analyzer as one of a plurality of identifiable analyzers via the analyzer component performing framework and analyzer interactions for scenario parameters for a scenario via the scenario component running the scenario on the analyzer to generate analyzer results and performing framework and analyzer interactions associated with the analyzer results for the scenario via the results component. One or more computer readable media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to provide a framework for scenario based assessment of a physical environment and an integrator that includes an analyzer component a scenario component and a results component identify an analyzer as one of a plurality of identifiable analyzers via the analyzer component perform framework and analyzer interactions for scenario parameters for a scenario via the scenario component run the scenario on the analyzer to generate analyzer results and perform framework and analyzer interactions associated with the analyzer results for the scenario via the results component. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

In the example of the management components include a seismic data component an information component a processing component a simulation component an attribute component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on entities . Entities may include earth entities or geological objects such as wells surfaces reservoirs etc. In the system the entities can include virtual representations of actual physical entities that are reconstructed for purposes of simulation. The entities may include entities based on data acquired via sensing observation etc. e.g. the seismic data and other information . As an example an entity may represent a feature a component etc. spatially while a property or properties may specify one or more characteristics for the entity.

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on a software framework such as an object based framework. In such a framework entities may include entities based on pre defined classes to facilitate modeling and simulation. A commercially available example of an object based framework is the MICROSOFT .NET framework Redmond Wash. which provides a set of extensible object classes. In the .NET framework an object class encapsulates a module of reusable code and associated data structures. Object classes can be used to instantiate object instances for use in by a program script etc. For example borehole classes may define objects for representing boreholes based on well data.

In the example of the simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes specified by the attribute component which may include a library of attributes e.g. a library that may include seismic attributes and other attributes . Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component . Alternatively or in addition the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . In an example embodiment the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results. Additionally or alternatively output from the simulation component may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component .

In an example embodiment the management components may include features for geology and geological modeling to generate high resolution geological models of reservoir structure and stratigraphy e.g. classification and estimation facies modeling well correlation surface imaging structural and fault analysis well path design data analysis fracture modeling workflow editing uncertainty and optimization modeling petrophysical modeling etc. . Particular features may allow for performance of rapid 2D and 3D seismic interpretation optionally for integration with geological and engineering tools e.g. classification and estimation well path design seismic interpretation seismic attribute analysis seismic sampling seismic volume rendering geobody extraction domain conversion etc. . As to reservoir engineering for a generated model one or more features may allow for simulation workflow to perform streamline simulation reduce uncertainty and assist in future well planning e.g. uncertainty analysis and optimization workflow well path design advanced gridding and upscaling history match analysis etc. . The management components may include features for drilling workflows including well path design drilling visualization and real time model updates e.g. via real time data links .

In an example embodiment the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes. Such a framework may be considered an application and may be considered a data driven application e.g. where data is input for purposes of simulating a geologic environment for purposes of analyzing a geologic environment etc. .

As an example the simulation component may include one or more features of a simulator such as the ECLIPSE reservoir simulator Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. the INTERSECT reservoir simulator Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. etc. As an example a reservoir or reservoirs may be simulated with respect to one or more enhanced recovery techniques e.g. consider a thermal process such as SAGD etc. . As an example a simulator may accept as input a grid such as for example a grid for purposes of simulating one or more physical phenomena e.g. via one or more numerical techniques .

In an example embodiment various aspects of the management components may include add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. allows for integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. In an example embodiment various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. .

The model simulation layer may provide domain objects act as a data source provide for rendering and provide for various user interfaces . Rendering may provide a graphical environment in which applications can display their data while the user interfaces may provide a common look and feel for application user interface components.

In the example of the domain objects can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects. Entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. For example an entity object may represent a well where a property object provides log information as well as version information and display information e.g. to display the well as part of a model .

In the example of data may be stored in one or more data sources or data stores generally physical data storage devices which may be at the same or different physical sites and accessible via one or more networks. The model simulation layer may be configured to model projects. As such a particular project may be stored where stored project information may include inputs models results and cases e.g. scenarios . Thus upon completion of a modeling session a user may store a project. At a later time the project can be accessed and restored using the model simulation layer which can recreate instances of the relevant domain objects.

In the example of the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment which may be equipment to acquire information to assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc.

In the example of an integrator may be provided that allows for integration of one or more analyzers e.g. A B . . . N . In an example embodiment the integrator framework may be part of the framework and provide for plugging in one or more analyzers.

As an example an analyzer may be a simulator a calculator software a software package a framework etc. As an example an analyzer may include data or other information e.g. optionally pointers URLs etc. for accessing information . Such data or other information may be associated with a scenario e.g. a case . As an example the integrator may provide features that allow for integrating an analyzer with respect to the framework . As an example a system may leverage functionality of the framework and functionality of one or more analyzers integrated via the integrator . As an example the integrator or another component or components may provide for defining one or more worksteps suitable for forming a workflow.

In the example of the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment which may be equipment to acquire information to assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc.

As an example the framework of may provide interaction between an analyzer e.g. or results therefrom etc. with equipment in the geologic environment e.g. for data acquisition control etc. . Such an approach may assist with production exploration drilling e.g. torque drag etc. etc.

In an example embodiment a framework can include features that provide for scenario based analysis e.g. case based analysis . Such a framework may be referred to as for example a scenario based analysis framework. As an example a framework may provide features that make it extensible and operational with respect to one or more analyzers. For example consider the integrator of which may provide for interactions between one or more analyzers and the framework . As an example a system may include a framework an integrator and an analyzer. As mentioned an analyzer may be or include a simulator a calculator software a software package a framework etc.

In an example embodiment a system can allow for transferability of end user understanding enhancement of familiarity in use and extensibility of various components. As an example such a system may provide for extensibility of an analyzer which may leverage native non native or both native and non native functionality. As an example such a system may provide for interoperability with one or more non native functional modules data structures data files etc. As an example a system may include features to provide one or more objective functions optimizers and worksteps e.g. as in a workflow .

In an example embodiment a framework can include features that allow for plug in of a scenario analyzer e.g. for purposes of leveraging functionality sharing functionality data information etc. . A scenario may be a case e.g. as in a case study that includes various items for example that may be input to one or more modules e.g. of an analyzer for generation of results. As an example a case may identify which parts of a model or models and data plus which configuration context and reference elements form a particular model and data under consideration. As an example a system may provide for scenario analysis to determine a best case scenario a worst case scenario etc. e.g. based on analysis of a plurality of scenarios .

In an example embodiment a framework can provide for integration of one or more types of analyzers e.g. engines simulators calculators etc. to form a system that includes shared concepts including cases e.g. scenarios analyzer arguments and results. In such an example integration of an analyzer or analyzers into a framework may provide for a similar look and feel as to tasks visualizations inputs outputs etc. Such an approach may enhance user experience e.g. for an individual user for multiple users across an enterprise across enterprises etc. . As an example a framework may provide for a customized analyzer that may include a custom mix of native and non native functionality. For example an analyzer may be customized through integration with a framework such that functionality of the framework and functionality of the analyzer may be utilized for purposes of assessing one or more cases e.g. associated with a geologic environment .

As an example a framework may include analyzer plug in functionality. In such an example the framework may include an integrator component or components that allow for plugging in one or more analyzers. For example consider the integrator of .

In an example embodiment a framework may allow implementations of one or more types of analyzers to be integrated with functionality of the framework e.g. such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework in the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . As an example an analyzer may define and encapsulate input e.g. including model and data input plus arguments as cases e.g. as hosted in a cases tree in the PETREL framework . As an example for iterative workflows there may be multiple cases or a sequence of alterations or associated input modifiers encapsulated as an iterative case. As an example an integrator may be provided to integrate one or more analyzers into a framework e.g. optionally for performing one or more tasks associated with iterative workflows . In such an example functionality provided by such one or more analyzers may be combined with native functionality of the framework e.g. to enhance workflows provide customized workflows etc. .

As an example an integrator may enable a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL framework to integrate information functionality or information and functionality associated with one or more analyzers. In turn the framework may provide for construction of a customized analyzer e.g. to provide features beyond those provided by an analyzer . As an example a workflow may be created that includes one or more actions performed by an analyzer. As mentioned through integration of an analyzer with a framework a resulting system may provide analyzer functionality and framework functionality optionally in one or more combinations that provide functionality beyond that of either the analyzer or framework e.g. customized worksteps workflows cases etc. .

As an example for a scenario analyzer e.g. or case analyzer a scenario definition e.g. or case definition may be implemented along with the scenario analyzer to store both input settings and host or marshal related results. As an example such results may be of one or more types native to a framework e.g. the PETREL framework such as line plots and grid results and or extensible to support customized types including non time series output.

As an example an analyzer may be integrated into an uncertainty and optimization process for a framework e.g. the PETREL framework for example for driving optimization uncertainty and proxy workflows. As an example an optimization framework may be extensible so that one or more of various types of optimizers samplers proxies or distributions integrated into a system can operate on the analyzer. As an example a workflow itself may be customizable and may be extended with custom worksteps that become an integrated part of the workflow.

As an example an analyzer may be integrated into a framework e.g. via one or more integrator components to be included as part of a workflow e.g. an uncertainty workflow . A workflow may also include an objective function that may take results of an integrated analyzer and use such input to create output for a next round of calculations. In such an example an objective function may be extensible.

As an example variables may be used as input by framework plug ins e.g. plug ins to the OCEAN framework to one or more components of a system for example which may include worksteps where the variables can manipulate one or more parts of the arguments the workstep operates on. Consider as an example an optimization workflow with native and plugged in worksteps driving a customized analyzer and evaluated by an objective function which may also be extensible .

As a particular example consider a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment which allows for integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. . In this particular example consider another a commercially available package marketed as the ECLIPSE reservoir engineering software Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . In this particular example as to some aspects pertaining to file compatibility one or more types of file formats may be associated with the ECLIPSE software where one type of file format pertains to input files that may be generated in an export step from a model in the PETREL framework e.g. simulation controls by its internal code and another type of file format that pertains to output files that may be imported into a model in the PETREL framework e.g. by its internal code . Also an interface provided by the OCEAN framework may allow for supplementing data for example by some amount of access to a model of the PETREL framework. In the foregoing particular example mentioning the OCEAN the PETREL framework and the ECLIPSE software features tend to be specific to two particular types of file formats associated with the ECLIPSE software.

As an example an integrator may be provided for a framework e.g. such as the OCEAN framework to provide for integration of functionality associated with a software that may not be native to the framework. As an example such an integrator may provide for integration of functionality of a simulator such as that of the ECLISPE software. As to the aforementioned ECLIPSE software e.g. for reservoir simulation it includes features that can apply a finite difference technique which is a numerical technique that discretizes a physical space into blocks defined by a multidimensional grid. Numerical techniques may include equations for heat transfer mass transfer phase change etc. As an example a reservoir simulator may include equations to describe 3 phase behavior e.g. liquid gas gas in solution well and or fracture regions etc. As an example an integrator may allow for interaction between such a simulator and a framework e.g. for worksteps workflows cases scenarios etc. .

In various example embodiments a framework may include features to assess integration of and to integrate data functionality or data and functionality of an engine a simulator a calculator etc. into the framework. Such a framework may provide for shared concepts relating to scenarios analyzer arguments results etc. As an example a framework that includes an integrator may optionally provide for a harmonious look and feel for interfaces outputs etc. As an example data functionality or data and functionality plugged in to a framework via an integrator may provide for a harmonious visual and operational look and feel e.g. a unified experience as may be expected from a single vendor product .

As shown in the example of the framework includes an inputs block a case block a results block and a results user interface UI block . The inputs block may allow a user to specify inputs via a user interface of the framework for example consider inputs such as grid properties fluid model saturation function rock compression function development strategy etc. As an example consider grid and property inputs via the input block forming at least in part a case per the case block . As shown such a case may be for a particular simulator e.g. ECLIPSE 100 simulator where permeability and porosity for the grid are equated to keywords which may be associated with a particular format for a file an output file.

In the example of the file may include keywords for the case formulated by the case block of the framework . In such an example the simulator receives the keywords which are acceptable input for running a simulation e.g. a case . In turn after the simulator runs the simulation for the case it can format results according to a format suitable for receipt by the framework . In such an example the simulator formats its results and transmits the file to the framework . As indicated by the results block and the results UI block of the framework the results in the file may be selected via a UI of the results block and presented in another UI of the results UI block . In such a manner where a simulator conforms to the file exchange approach e.g. format etc. the framework can construct a case output case keywords to a simulator and then receive results from the simulator for selection and presentation to a user e.g. via a display etc. .

As an example the framework may be the PETREL framework and the simulator may be one of the ECLIPSE family of simulators. In such a context a case may bring together and identify which parts of a model or models and data plus which configuration context and reference elements form the particular model and data under consideration. As an example a client may be a software developer that does not have authority to modify source code of the PETREL framework. In such an example a so called ECLIPSE format file for input to an ECLIPSE simulator may be generated in an export step from the PETREL framework while an ECLIPSE format file for output may be imported into the PETREL framework via execution of an internal code module. As to the OCEAN framework environment an interface may provide a client to supplement the file data for example via access to a model in the PETREL framework.

As to the method it pertains to the system for purposes of exporting a case definition and importing results for the defined case. As shown a definition block includes defining a case an export block exports the defined case in a particular format e.g. format X or FX as indicated by a file . A command block performs a post export function for the case a command block performs a pre run function for the case and a submission block submits a command to a simulation block such that a simulator e.g. the simulator runs the case. The method continues at a completion block that includes outputting a case results file in a particular format e.g. format X or FX a command block performs a pre import function for importing the file and an import block indicates that the results for the case have been imported to the framework e.g. the framework .

As to the system it includes the framework an integrator and an analyzer which may be selected from one of a plurality of analyzers. As to the method in the example of it includes a discovery process where the framework may discover information as to a type associated with the analyzer an exposure process where the framework may instruct the integrator to expose features of the framework via a user interface and where the analyzer may supply arguments via the integrator for use in formulating one or more cases by the framework a scenario input results process where the framework may transmit a scenario to the integrator and where inputs thereof may be transmitted to the analyzer for purposes of running the scenario and returning results thereof to framework via the integrator and an interaction process where the framework may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUI to a user system e.g. a computer etc. such that a user may interact with the framework to select edit analyze etc. results provided by the analyzer. As an example such interactions may include formulating a subsequent scenario a workstep a workflow etc. which may optionally repeat the method using the analyzer or one or more other analyzers e.g. via the integrator . As shown in the example method the integrator provide for various types of framework and analyzer interactions e.g. for scenario parameters for scenario results generated by an analyzer etc. .

In the example of the integrator may include components such as a scenario analyzer component a scenario component a results provider component and an engagements component that interoperate with one or more components of an analyzer such as the analyzer . For example the analyzer may include components such as a scenario analyzer component an argument pack component a results provider component and an engagements component that interoperate with components of the integrator such that the analyzer may be plugged in to the framework . As an example the integrator may be considered an interface that allows a framework to interface with one or more analyzers.

As an example the integrator may represent the analyzer to the framework e.g. represent the analyzer as being plugged in to the framework or part of the framework . For example the scenario component of the integrator may represent arguments of an argument pack component of the analyzer . In turn the framework may transmit scenario information to the integrator as to one or more scenario that can be run by the analyzer e.g. according to its argument pack component . As indicated results generated by the analyzer may be passed from the results provider component of the analyzer to the results provider component of the integrator which in turn provide for results data flow to the framework .

In the example of flexibility exists via the integrator conceptually offering options as to engagements for example per the engagement component . The engagement component may be implemented by an analyzer to provide for interactions with the framework for example which may include data exchanges messaging commands etc. In the example of the engagement component of the analyzer may implement the engagement component of the interface which in turn can allow for interactions with the framework .

As to the results adaptation engagement it may provide for adapting an analyzer s output data form into a form consumed by the framework e.g. to allow for presentation manipulation etc. by one or more tools inside or connected to the framework . As an example such an engagement may provide for consumption of partial results from on going analysis by an analyzer.

As to the export manipulation engagement an analyzer may be a separate program configured for receipt of input in the form of a file a group of files shared memory segments or other data pipe s or a mixture of these. Such forms may be deemed the export as they represent resources that a framework or tools in the framework may be able to interact with e.g. manipulate . For example consider an end user wants to delete the files to save disk space e.g. free the resources or an end user wants to rename a scenario a case and expects the export files or data pipes shared memory segments to be identified by the new name.

As to the analysis status monitoring engagement an analyzer may utilize considerable resources time etc. A framework e.g. or tools connected with the framework may want to be able to present run progress information or indicate resource usage queue status etc. Such an engagement component may provide such functionality.

As to the export editor engagement it may allow an existing editor UI in the framework to display a custom editing UI for example provided by a client which may be configured for editing an export form of a scenario e.g. a case .

As to the case runner engagement it may include a CaseRunnerMonitor which a client can use to react to RunCompleted RunAborted and Simulation ProgressChanged. As an example for a progress changed engagement it may be implemented for example to send an email when the job reaches for example a half way point e.g. or other condition .

As an example an integrator can provide for plugging in an analyzer such that existing capabilities of a framework e.g. or other extensions pugged in to the framework may be able to deal with a client s particular type of scenario or analyzer e.g. to build the scenarios cases to QC them to analyze the results to compare between analyzers to manage remote analyzer execution etc. .

As an example an integrator may be a behavioral application programming interface API . As an example an integrator may provide a specification to which an analyzer may adhere to for purposes of plugging in to functionality of a framework. As an example portions of a specification may be optional. For example an analyzer developer may choose to what extent an analyzer comports with the specification. As an example an analyzer may include one or more modules that can interact with one or more modules of a framework via an integrator. As an example if a framework can provide a grid of a geologic environment e.g. a pillar grid finite element grid finite volume grid finite difference grid etc. where an analyzer can accept such a grid it may do so via an integrator and for example perform a simulation using the grid and return one or more types of property values associated with the gird e.g. nodes grid cells etc. as simulation grid results which in turn may be selected and presented by the framework e.g. to a display . In such an example results may be time base results for example a simulation of one or more physical phenomena over time.

As an example a system can include a framework for scenario based assessment of a physical environment and an integrator that includes an analyzer component for identifying an analyzer as one of a plurality of identifiable analyzers a scenario component for framework and analyzer interactions for a scenario and a results component for framework and analyzer interactions with respect to analyzer results for the scenario. As an example such a system may include the analyzer component as being implementable by the analyzer the scenario component as representing an argument pack of the analyzer and the results component as being implementable by the analyzer.

As an example a system may include a scenario component configurable by an analyzer component for example based at least in part on the analyzer component identifying an analyzer.

As an example a system can include an integrator that includes an engagement component configured for framework and analyzer interactions for engagements between a framework and an identified analyzer e.g. information exchanges command exchanges etc. . For example such an engagement component may be implementable by an analyzer. As an example an engagement component may provide for a plurality of implementable engagements. For example consider one or more of results engagements monitoring engagements export engagements scenario engagements uncertainty assessment engagements etc.

As an example a system may include a framework that includes a workflow editor for associating one or more worksteps of a workflow with one or more of a plurality of identifiable analyzers. As an example a framework may include a results component for selecting analyzer results e.g. from one or more analyzers . For example consider a results component that includes instructions for rendering a graphical user interface to a display where the graphical user interface includes one or more controls for selecting analyzer results.

As an example a system may include a framework that operates according to worksteps of a workflow. In such an example the worksteps of the workflow may include a workstep associated with one identifiable analyzer and another workstep associated with another identifiable analyzer e.g. a different analyzer . As an example worksteps of a workflow may include an assessment workstep for assessing analyzer results from a plurality of identifiable analyzers.

As an example the workflow modules may be part of a framework that allow for associating a first analyzer with a workstep and a second analyzer with another workstep. In such an example the scenario module may provide for defining scenarios to be run by each of the analyzers and the result module may provide for receiving results for the run scenarios. The UI module may provide for selection of results from either or both scenarios for example as part of a workflow. An analysis of results presented by a UI or UIs may allow for defining one or more subsequent scenarios e.g. to be run by one of the analyzers or another analyzer .

As an example a workflow may aim to optimize one or more sets of parameters for example where each set of parameters may define a scenario. As a geologic environment may include one or more reservoirs one or more wells one or more surface networks etc. a plurality of analyzers may be implemented using an integrator or integrators where scenario results are transmitted to a framework for an overall optimization analysis for example to select an optimized scenario to define one or more additional scenarios as part of an optimization effort etc.

As to the analyzer specification module in the example of it includes various fields such as an identification field a submit command field a support field a development strategies field an export field and one or more other fields.

As an example the development strategies field e.g. UsesDevelopmentStrategies may allow for enhancing user experience for example to allow a client s simulator to use an existing and potentially already end user familiar UI to specify the case scenario control timeline for their own simulator.

As an example an analyzer specification module may include one or more features of a CaseAnalyzerSpec class in the OCEAN framework environment e.g. for a PETREL API etc. . In such an example may be a C syntax declaration of a generic class for example to allow writing an API definition referring to the concept of the arguments package see e.g. the scenario component as representing the argument pack component . In such an example a client coder may include their own arg pack as their concrete type.

As an example an analyzer may be an analyzer developed by or running in for example the MATLAB computing environment marketed by MathWorks Inc. Natick Mass. . As an example a workflow may include one or more worksteps that access a MATLAB computing environment analyzer.

As shown in the method includes a provision block for providing a framework for scenario based assessment of a physical environment and an integrator that includes an analyzer component a scenario component and a results component an identification block for identifying an analyzer as one of a plurality of identifiable analyzers using the analyzer component an interaction block for performing framework and analyzer interactions for scenario parameters for a scenario e.g. via the scenario component a run block for running the scenario on the analyzer to generate analyzer results e.g. based at least in part on the scenario parameters and an interaction block for performing framework and analyzer interactions associated with the analyzer results for the scenario e.g. via the results component . As an example such a method may include providing a workflow that includes a workstep for requesting the analyzer results. As an example a method may include providing a workflow that includes a workstep for requesting analyzer results from more than one of a plurality of identifiable analyzers. As an example a method may include performing an uncertainty assessment using a framework for example based at least in part on analyzer results from one or more analyzers.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium. As an example the blocks and may be provided as one or more modules components etc. e.g. for storage in memory and execution by one or more processors of a computing device or system .

As an example one or more computer readable media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to provide a framework for scenario based assessment of a physical environment and an integrator that includes an analyzer component a scenario component and a results component identify an analyzer as one of a plurality of identifiable analyzers via the analyzer component perform framework and analyzer interactions for scenario parameters for a scenario via the scenario component run the scenario on the analyzer to generate analyzer results and perform framework and analyzer interactions associated with the analyzer results for the scenario via the results component. As an example instructions may be provided to instruct a computing system to provide an engagement component for framework and analyzer interactions for engagements between the framework and the identified analyzer. As an example instructions may be provided for performing one of a plurality of engagements selected from a group of engagements e.g. results engagements monitoring engagements export engagements scenario engagements uncertainty assessment engagements etc. .

As an example a system may include an integrator for plugging in one or more simulators to simulate one or more scenarios e.g. associated with a physical environment or other environment . As an example a method may include creating a plurality of scenarios e.g. with associated scenario parameters and launching one or more simulators and monitoring the simulators as simulations are run e.g. optionally interacting with the simulators to manipulate one or more of the simulations . As an example such a method may include interacting with results from one or more of the simulations. For example a system may include a framework an integrator and a plurality of simulators where the integrator provides for framework and simulator interactions e.g. framework and analyzer interactions as to simulation results e.g. as well as for example control of one or more of the plurality of simulators .

As an example a physical environment may include a chemical plant water treatment works an electricity generator and distribution network an airplane and associated aerodynamics a control system fuel tank equipment engines a ship etc. As an example a scenario analyzer may be configured to process financial information e.g. and optionally in response to one or more processes associated with a physical environment . As an example a physical environment may include a natural environment model e.g. a weather model an ocean currents model etc. . As an example a physical environment may include transportation equipment for example for transport of a resource or resources. For example a scenario may include parameters for weather ocean currents and one or more ships e.g. for transport of oil gas etc. 

As an example an interaction may include a user entering one or more commands via a user interface. For example an interaction may include an end user entering a right click to Delete Results . In such an example an integrator may help process a method call to a method such as System.Results.DeleteResults someCase where the results of a scenario e.g. a case may be deleted e.g. to free space clear entries in a GUI etc. . As an example a system may include one or more components for determining if a called for action is offered by an analyzer associated with a specified scenario instance e.g. by the system querying for a particular engagement and optionally looking at settings of an engagement which it may finds . In such an example if not available a context menu item e.g. a right click context menu item may be automatically disabled or removed the call may throw an exception or no ops occur. In such an example the system may be a learning system enabled via an integrator which may enhance user experience and learn about capabilities of an analyzer e.g. simulator etc. . Such learning may be stored to memory in a manner whereby discovery of the same analyzer e.g. analyzer type causes engagement settings to be loaded that may enhance user experience e.g. diminish requests for unavailable functionalities . As to the deletion example where such an engagement is enabled a call to an analyzer s implementation of the deletion engagement may cause results stored in a storage medium to be deleted abandoned e.g. one or more pointers file names etc. removed .

As an example a results engagement may provide for manipulation of results by an end user such as instructions to compress data e.g. loss less or some specified decimation sub sampling etc. to save space specifying storage location or specify attributes e.g. quality access rights etc. to send an instruction to remove current results e.g. clearing out data with limited value incorrect in some way etc. .

In the example of wellbore production equipment extends from a wellhead of the wellsite and to the reservoir to draw fluid to the surface. As shown the wellsite is operatively connected to the network via a transport line . As indicated by various arrows fluid can flow from the reservoir through the wellbore and onto the network . Fluid can then flow from the network for example to one or more fluid processing facilities.

In the example of sensors S are located for example to monitor various parameters during operations. The sensors S may measure for example pressure temperature flowrate composition and other parameters of the reservoir wellbore gathering network process facilities and or other portions of an operation. As an example the sensors S may be operatively connected to a surface unit e.g. to instruct the sensors to acquire data to collect data from the sensors etc. .

In the example of the surface unit can include computer facilities such as a memory device a controller one or more processors and display unit e.g. for managing data visualizing results of an analysis etc. . As an example data may be collected in the memory device and processed by the processor s e.g. for analysis etc. . As an example data may be collected from the sensors S and or by one or more other sources. For example data may be supplemented by historical data collected from other operations user inputs etc. As an example analyzed data may be used to in a decision making process.

In the example of a transceiver not shown may be provided to allow communications between the surface unit and one or more pieces of equipment in the environment . For example the controller may be used to actuate mechanisms in the environment via the transceiver optionally based on one or more decisions of a decision making process. In such a manner equipment in the environment may be selectively adjusted based at least in part on collected data. Such adjustments may be made for example automatically based on computer protocol manually by an operator or both. As an example one or more well plans may be adjusted e.g. to select optimum operating conditions to avoid problems etc. .

To facilitate data analyses one or more analyzers may be implemented e.g. optionally via the surface unit or other unit system etc. . As an example data fed into one or more analyzers may be historical data real time data or combinations thereof. As an example analysis through one or more analyzers may be repeated or adjusted based on the data received.

In the example of analyzers can include a reservoir analyzer a wellbore analyzer and a surface network analyzer a process analyzer and an economics analyzer . As an example the reservoir analyzer may be configured to solve for hydrocarbon flow rate through a reservoir and into one or more wellbores. As an example the wellbore analyzer and surface network analyzer may be configured to solve for hydrocarbon flow rate through a wellbore and a surface gathering network of pipelines. As to the process analyzer it may be configured to model a processing plant where fluid containing hydrocarbons is separated into its constituent components e.g. methane ethane propane etc. for example and prepared for further distribution e.g. transport via road rail pipe etc. and optionally sale. As an example the economics analyzer may be configured to model costs associated with at least part of an operation.

In the example of the system includes an integrator for integration of one or more of the analyzers and with one or more frameworks and . As an example the integrator and optionally multiple integrators may allow for creating processing etc. one or more workflows that may optionally include performing one or more analyses using one or more of the analyzers and . For example a workflow may be performed using the framework that includes a workstep e.g. WS that runs a scenario on the reservoir analyzer and another workstep e.g. WS that runs a scenario on the wellbore analyzer . In such an example the framework may provide one or more user interfaces to view results received from the analyzer the analyzer or both. In turn a user may interact with the framework via one or more user interfaces for example to perform a subsequent workstep another workflow define one or more additional scenarios etc. As an example consider a method that includes defining one or more additional scenarios based on results from one or more analyzers where at least one of the one or more additional scenarios may be defined for execution on a different analyzer.

The example of particularly the system which includes the integrator may allow a user to assess various scenarios associated with the geologic environment for example optionally include equipment therein e.g. or to be provided therein etc. . As an example where multiple instances of frameworks may be provided a method may include parallel processing for example to leverage resources of the multiple frameworks e.g. whether for a single analyzer or for multiple analyzers .

As an example a framework may include a module that may receive as input data from a plurality of analyzers and analyze such data for example as to sensitivity with respect to one or more parameters of a scenario or scenarios e.g. as run by the plurality of analyzers . As an example consider a system that includes a surface network analyzer and a reservoir analyzer plugged in to a framework where the framework provides for analysis of results from the analyzers.

As an example an oilfield network may modeled using a network analyzer that may aim to solve for flow conditions by identifying pressure drop e.g. pressure differential for example through use of momentum equations. As an example an equation for pressure differential may account for factors such as fluid potential energy e.g. hydrostatic pressure friction e.g. shear stress between conduit wall and fluid and acceleration e.g. change in fluid velocity . As an example an equation may be expressed in terms of static reservoir pressure a flowing bottom hole pressure and flowrate. As an example equations may account for vertical horizontal or angled arrangements of equipment. Various examples of equations may be found in a multiphase flow simulator such as the simulator of the PIPESIM simulation framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. which may be implemented for design and diagnostic analysis of oil and gas production systems. A manual for the PIPESIM simulation framework PIPESIM Suite User Guide 2005 includes information for example for building a model fluid and multiphase flow modeling reservoir well and completion modeling field equipment modeling and operations e.g. artificial lift gas lift wax prediction nodal analysis network analysis field planning multi well analysis etc. .

As an example an integrator may allow a framework to interact with a plurality of analyzers. As an example an integrator may be implemented using the OCEAN framework environment such that an analyzer may interact with the PETREL framework. In such an example the analyzer may be plugged in to the OCEAN framework environment in a manner that provides interaction with the PETREL framework via one or more existing interfaces thereto in the OCEAN framework environment. As an example an analyzer may define and encapsulate input e.g. including model and data input plus arguments as cases e.g. hosted in a cases tree in the PETREL framework . As an example for iterative workflows there may be multiple scenarios or a sequence of alterations or associated input modifiers encapsulated as an iterative scenario.

As an example a scenario definition may be implemented along with an analyzer e.g. or analyzers to store both input settings and host or marshal related results. As an example results may be of native types of a framework see e.g. line plots of and grid results of and or extensible to support custom types see e.g. optionally including non time series output.

As an example through use of an integrator a framework may instruct a computing system to render one or more GUIs to a display along with various options that allow a user to examine the results transform the results manipulate the results combine the results with other results etc. As to the nature of the one or more GUIs they may be determined in part by one or more characteristics of an analyzer e.g. type of analyzer type of case or cases results provided by the analyzer etc. .

As an example functionality of a framework accessible to a user may be for example based in part on one or more characteristics of an analyzer. In such a manner a user may create a workstep or worksteps to be performed in part by the framework where the workstep or worksteps include specifying a case or cases to be run by the analyzer where results of the case or cases may be returned to the framework and examined etc. using functionality of the framework.

As shown in the example of the GUI allows a user to view one or more cases and results for such cases. The results may be received by a framework responsive to transmission of case parameters to an analyzer plugged in to the framework via an integrator for example where the analyzer runs a case according to the case parameters and then transmits case results to the framework. As shown the GUI may be rendered to a display by the framework where a user can readily select the case and associated results and utilize functionality of the framework for rendering selected results visually to a display. As an example the framework may provide for using at least a portion of the results e.g. results data etc. in a workstep of a workflow which may optionally include using a different analyzer.

As an example a functional module may be integrated into an uncertainty and optimization framework e.g. of the PETREL framework for example for driving optimization uncertainty and proxy workflows. As an example an optimization framework may be extensible so that any type of optimizer sampler proxy or distribution that is integrated can be operated as part of a workstep workflow etc. As an example a workflow itself may be customizable and may be extended with custom worksteps that become an integrated part of the workflow.

In the example of the worksteps may drive an analyzer and be evaluated by an objective function e.g. which may be extensible . As shown in an analyzer may be included as part of a workflow e.g. an uncertainty workflow . As shown in the example of a base case may be defined as including access to an analyzer via a plug in option for example referred to as do something e.g. a particular task or tasks associated with a workflow . As indicated the do something workstep e.g. or task is enabled as workstep number in a series of 9 worksteps illustrated e.g. noting that a workflow may include fewer or more worksteps . As indicated in the example of the do something workstep precedes a define simulation case workstep a workflow which may depend at least in part on results from the do something workstep . Further the simulation case workstep may implement an integrator to pass case information to an analyzer to run the simulation case. As indicated by a wait for case results workstep see workstep number the workflow being performed by the framework may wait for results from the integrated analyzer e.g. integrated via an integrator component . As to workstep number it includes defining an objective function which may allow a user to create select edit etc. an objective function . In such an example the objective function may be used to analyze the results of an analyzer and for example use such input to create output for a next round of calculations.

As an example a system can include a framework and an integrator for integrating a plurality of analyzers. In such an example the framework may include one or more native functional modules and the integrator may provide for integration of one or more pluggable functional modules e.g. analyzer modules . The framework may include features that allow for so called customized analyzers e.g. where an analyzer is customized by leveraging functionality of the framework worksteps workflows or other constructs e.g. objects etc. . As an example an integrator may allow for integration of functionality of one or more analyzers for example to provide for a customized analyzer workstep workflow etc. As an example an integrator may act to plug in a module or modules e.g. modules of an analyzer .

As an example a framework may include one or more modules that provide for context menu items for one or more custom cases e.g. custom scenarios . A custom case may specify use of an analyzer plugged in to a framework. Given a custom case for example as specified or selected in a menu an application programming interface for a framework may act to create the custom case for example according to one or more case types for export to a plugged in analyzer and for import of results from the plugged in analyzer.

As an example an application programming interface for a framework may call for creation of an object to represent one or more custom case types. Where tree results may be provided information calculated according to a custom case may be optionally added to a results tree e.g. consider a tree structure in the PETREL framework .

As an example an application programming interface for a framework may call for creation of a custom case collection. A framework may include functionality to exporting results for a custom case for example to a file e.g. from a results tree .

As an example a framework may include functionality to allow for creation of one or more custom domain objects. As an example such objects may optionally be added to a results object that may include a graphic control e.g. for ease of access by a user . As to results a framework may include functionality for output of results for example to plot results associated with a custom case.

As an example a framework may include functionality for removing one or more custom cases results of custom cases etc. As an example a framework may provide for settings as to one or more custom cases for example to show common case functionality.

As an example a system can include functional modules native to the system an analyzer and an integrator for plugging in one or more functional modules of the analyzer e.g. non native functional modules .

As an example a system can include an optimizer that provides for an optimization workflow. In such an example the optimization workflow can include at least one workstep driving the analyzer where the analyzer includes one or more functional modules plugged into the system via the integrator. As an example an optimization workflow can include one or more functional modules native to a system and one or more functional modules plugged into the system via an integrator. As an example a system may include at least one functional module plugged into the system that provides for a custom type of result based on output of an analyzer.

As an example a system can include a sampler for inclusion in a workflow. As an example a system can include one or more modules that render information for a graphical user interface that includes fields to display at least one variable associated with at least one functional modules native to the system and to display at least one variable associated with at least one functional module plugged into the system via an integrator e.g. one or more analyzer modules . In such an example the variables may include workstep variables.

As an example a method can include receiving a signal from a graphical control and responsive to receipt of the signal creating a custom analyzer object that includes one or more functional modules accessible via a plug in interface e.g. one or more functional modules of an analyzer or analyzers . Such a method may include executing the custom analyzer object at least in part by accessing at least one of the one or more functional modules via the plug in interface. As an example a method may include generating output information responsive to executing a custom analyzer and optionally rendering the output information to a display based at least in part on accessing one of the one or more functional modules via the plug in interface. A method may include for example executing a custom analyzer as part of a workflow.

As an example one or more computer readable media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to create a custom analyzer by accessing one or more functional modules via a plug in interface execute the custom analyzer to analyze a scenario and output results based on execution of the custom analyzer. As an example instructions may be provided to instruct the computing system to access data for a sedimentary basin where the customer analyzer analyzes a scenario related to the sedimentary basin. As an example instructions may be provided to instruct the computing system to render a graphical user interface that includes a graphical control for specifying functionality of the custom analyzer.

In an example embodiment one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to output information for controlling a process. For example such instructions may provide for output to sensing process an injection process drilling process an extraction process etc.

In the example of the application can include a plug in manager an application configuration file one or more interfaces and entity instances . An entity instance may carry geometry of an entity object it represents where a property object carries property values associated with that entity. For example the project includes a data element for a well a data element for a reservoir and a data element for another feature . In such an example the data elements and represent entities that are characterized by corresponding properties such as log values porosity values and other values . These types of data e.g. entity and property may be exposed via domain object classes of the framework resources as implemented by the application .

In the example of classes may be provided via the class library for example in the form of plug ins. As shown the library may include classes interfaces and value types . The application may allow for use of the library via the plug in manager that accesses the application configuration file . In such an arrangement the plug in manager may allow for registration and use of the library .

As shown in the method includes a construct block an initialize block and integrate block a use block and a disposal block . Such a method may provide for use of one or more plug ins for example as provided by the class library .

In the example of the framework resources may include a module interface that defines procedures e.g. methods such as those of the method . For example such a module interface may include methods for construction initialization integration presentation integration disintegration and disposal of a plug in module. Consider the following scenario where during startup of an application a construction method may load a module as defined in the configuration file for an application and proceed to instantiate the module. Following construction an initialization method may register any services provided by the module which may allow for consumption of such services to one or more other modules. After initialization an integration method can involve consumption of registered services. Where appropriate an integrate presentation method makes user interface components menus toolbars context menus windows etc. available. Accordingly a user may interact with and use functionality provided by the module. After use for example at shut down a disintegration method can clean up any presentation elements installed by the module. Thereafter a disposal method can free any unmanaged resources and free any licenses acquired by the module.

In an example embodiment components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

As an example a device may be a mobile device that includes one or more network interfaces for communication of information. For example a mobile device may include a wireless network interface e.g. operable via IEEE 802.11 ETSI GSM BLUETOOTH satellite etc. . As an example a mobile device may include components such as a main processor memory a display display graphics circuitry e.g. optionally including touch and gesture circuitry a SIM slot audio video circuitry motion processing circuitry e.g. accelerometer gyroscope wireless LAN circuitry smart card circuitry transmitter circuitry GPS circuitry and a battery. As an example a mobile device may be configured as a cell phone a tablet etc. As an example a method may be implemented e.g. wholly or in part using a mobile device. As an example a system may include one or more mobile devices.

As an example a system may be a distributed environment for example a so called cloud environment where various devices components etc. interact for purposes of data storage communications computing etc. As an example a device or a system may include one or more components for communication of information via one or more of the Internet e.g. where communication occurs via one or more Internet protocols a cellular network a satellite network etc. As an example a method may be implemented in a distributed environment e.g. wholly or in part as a cloud based service .

As an example information may be input from a display e.g. consider a touchscreen output to a display or both. As an example information may be output to a projector a laser device a printer etc. such that the information may be viewed. As an example information may be output stereographically or holographically. As to a printer consider a 2D or a 3D printer. As an example a 3D printer may include one or more substances that can be output to construct a 3D object. For example data may be provided to a 3D printer to construct a 3D representation of a subterranean formation. As an example layers may be constructed in 3D e.g. horizons etc. geobodies constructed in 3D etc. As an example holes fractures etc. may be constructed in 3D e.g. as positive structures as negative structures etc. .

Although only a few example embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the example embodiments. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. It is the express intention of the applicant not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 for any limitations of any of the claims herein except for those in which the claim expressly uses the words means for together with an associated function.

