---

title: Personal knowledge panel interface
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on computer storage media, for providing personal knowledge panels. One of the methods includes receiving, at an Internet search system, a search query. Multiple search results identifying Internet resources indexed by the search system that satisfy the query are obtained. If the search query matches a name of a user that submitted the search query, a ranking of one or more of the search results and a personal knowledge panel comprising one or more items of user provided information about the user is provided, wherein the personal knowledge panel includes multiple input fields for updating the user provided information of the knowledge panel. Updated user information that was provided using the input fields of the personal knowledge panel is received, and the updated user information is associated with an account of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311362&OS=09311362&RS=09311362
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09311362
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This specification relates to Internet search engines and more particularly to ranking search results that are identified as being responsive to search queries.

Internet search engines aim to identify resources e.g. web pages images text documents multimedia content e.g. videos that are relevant to a user s information needs and to present information about the resources in a manner that is most useful to the user. Internet search engines generally return a set of search results each identifying a respective resource in response to a user submitted query.

This specification describes how a system can provide a personal knowledge panel that a user can use as an interface for updating user provided information about the user maintained by the system. In general the system allows the user to update information directly in the knowledge panel interface without the need to visit another web page e.g. without the need to separately visit an account page of the system.

In general one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of receiving at an Internet search system a search query receiving multiple search results each of the search results identifying an Internet resource indexed by the search system that satisfies the query determining that the search query matches a name of a user that submitted the search query providing in response to the search query a ranking of one or more of the search results and a personal knowledge panel comprising one or more items of user provided information about the user wherein the personal knowledge panel includes multiple input fields for updating the user provided information of the knowledge panel receiving updated user information that was provided using the input fields of the personal knowledge panel and associating the updated user information with an account of the user. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding computer systems apparatus and computer programs recorded on one or more computer storage devices each configured to perform the actions of the methods. A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of them installed on the system that in operation causes or cause the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

The foregoing and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features alone or in combination. The personal knowledge panel allows the user to modify the one or more items of user provided information without the navigating away from a search results page that includes a presentation of the one or more search results. The ranking of the one or more search results is based on information provided in the personal knowledge panel. The actions include reranking the search results based on the updated user information and providing a different ranking of one or more search results based on the updated user information. The actions include providing a different ranking of one or more search results based on the updated user information without further input from the user. The actions include receiving at the Internet search system a second occurrence of the search query from a second user receiving multiple second search results each of the second search results identifying an Internet resource indexed by the search system that satisfies the query determining that the search query matches a name of the user and that the user is a contact of the second user and providing to the second user in response to the search query a second ranking of the one or more second search results and a second personal knowledge panel comprising one or more items of the updated user information provided by the user. The second ranking of the one or more second search results is based on the updated user information provided in the second personal knowledge panel. Visibility of one or more items of user information in the second personal knowledge panel is based on visibility settings provided by the user. Receiving updated user information that was provided using the input fields of the personal knowledge panel comprises receiving an indication of visibility that is specific to an item of the updated user information. The actions include providing the received updated user information to one or more other services that each are linked with the account of the user.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. A user can directly update his or her user provided information from a search results page without having to visit another page to do so. The personal knowledge panel shows a user exactly what others might see when searching for the user and allows a user to efficiently and rapidly tailor the information in the personal knowledge panel to control what others see. The accuracy and relevance of search results can be improved by using information provided in the personal knowledge panel to obtain search results. Using information in the personal knowledge panel can also disambiguate search results for entities having the same or similar names.

The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter of this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

A search system can provide one or more knowledge panels in response to a received search query. A knowledge panel is a user interface element that provides a collection of information or other content related to a particular entity referenced by the search query. For example the entity may be a person place country landmark animal historical event organization business sports team sporting event movie song album game work of art or any other entity. In some implementations the entity may be a concept subject or topic.

In general a knowledge panel provides a summary of information about the entity. For example a knowledge panel for a famous singer may include the name of the singer an image of the singer a description of the singer one or more facts about the singer content that identifies songs and albums recorded by the singer and or links to searches related to the singer. Other types of information and content can also be presented in the knowledge panel. A knowledge panel for a famous or well known person typically includes content obtained from multiple disparate sources e.g. multiple different web pages accessible over the Internet.

A search system may also provide personal knowledge panels about private persons generally e.g. users who are registered with the search system who may or may not be well known. A personal knowledge panel for a private person will generally include data provided by the user rather than data derived from other sources. For example a personal knowledge panel for a private person can provide a user provided introduction profile picture occupation education information contact information in addition to other types of user provided information.

The search system may provide a personal knowledge panel for a user of the search system when the user searches for himself or herself in other words when the user is logged in and the search query matches the logged in user s name. The search system may also provide a personal knowledge panel of a user of the search system when a the user searches for one of his or her contacts.

The search system may maintain or have access to a variety of different contacts of the user. For example a user can be connected with chat contacts email contacts or social contacts from one or more social networking services. In some implementations the search system also hosts a social networking service and presents a personal knowledge panel of the user when a social contact of the user in the search system s social networking service searches for the user e.g. by entering the user s name as a search query.

The illustrated search results page includes three search results that the search system has obtained in response to the query . Each of the search results includes a title a display link and a text snippet. Each of the search results is also linked to a respective resource e.g. a web page at a location indicated by the display link. User selection of a search result will cause the application to navigate to the linked resource.

The search results page also includes a personal knowledge panel corresponding to a logged in user Jim Smith. The search results page includes an indicator identifying the user who is currently logged in.

The personal knowledge panel includes various items of user provided information about the user. The personal knowledge panel includes the user s name a profile picture items of information including an introduction an occupation and an employer and education information. The personal knowledge panel can also provide a variety of other types of user provided information e.g. a current status interests a hometown current city state or country to name just a few examples.

The personal knowledge panel can also include items of information that the system extracted from other sources e.g. resources on the Internet. For example the system may obtain items of information that pertain to the user that are included in resources indexed by the system. For example the occupation of user Jim Smith may be found in resources indexed by the system. The system may determine that the resources refer to this user by matching one or more other items of information e.g. an email address of the user that is also found on the resource. In some implementations the system obtains user information from a publicly accessible or internally maintained knowledge graph of entities. For example the system can determine that the user s name matches one or more aliases for an entity in a knowledge graph and may also determine that information about the entity matches one or more other items of information about the user e.g. an email address of the user.

The search system can provide the personal knowledge panel as an interface for the user to update one or more items of user provided information maintained by the search system. For example upon user selection of any of the items of information the search system can provide an editable text input field for editing the item of information. For example upon user selection of Employer the search system can provide editable text field through which the user can edit that particular item of information. Similarly selecting the Occupation or other item of information in the personal knowledge panel will allow the user to edit those fields accordingly. This can allow the user to correct and update user provided information in addition to any incorrect items of information that were automatically populated by the system from other sources. For example Jim Smith s occupation were automatically populated incorrectly as a mechanical engineer he could use the personal knowledge panel as an interface to correct system information.

The user can also directly control to whom such user provided information will be accessible by using visibility drop down menu . For example the user can indicate using this or any other appropriate user interface control the groups of people that the search system will allow to access the user s information. For example the user can select that such information provided in the personal knowledge panel will be accessible by Everyone e.g. publically available. The user can also limit access to a particular group of people e.g. only contacts or friends of contacts. The user may also limit access to a custom defined group of people that is defined and maintained by the user e.g. only co workers. The visibility indicated by the user can also determine whether or not other search results provided to other users who have entered a query that matches the user s name will receive search results whose ranking is influenced by information in the personal knowledge panel .

In addition the search system may allow the user to individually control the visibility of each item of information presented in the personal knowledge panel . For example the user can choose to make his occupation publically available but choose to make his education available only to contacts. The individual visibility settings can also be used for influencing the ranking of search results provided to other users. For example if the user has made his education visible only to contacts then friends of contacts may not see search results influenced by the education information that visible to the user in his knowledge panel.

After making changes to the information in the personal knowledge panel the user can save the information by either selecting a Done user interface control or a Save user interface control . In some implementations the system then propagates the changes in the user s information to other services provided by the search system. For example the system can propagate the changes so that they also appear on the user s profile page of his or her social networking account. The system may also propagate changes to a city of residence to contact information in a user s email account of the search system. In this way the user can use the knowledge panel as an efficient way to update his or her information maintained the search system from one place and in line e.g. without having to navigate away from the search results page .

In addition the system can propagate the changes in the user s information to other services maintained by different entities e.g. to one or more other social networking services with which the user has an account. The system can maintain one or more connected and verified accounts of the user with other services and for which the user has granted the system particular permissions for propagating such changes. When the user confirms changes through the personal knowledge panel the system can communicate with the other services to propagate the changes accordingly e.g. through an application programming interfaces maintained by the other services.

In operation the user device transmits a query to the search system e.g. over the network . The query includes one or more terms and can include other information for example a location of the user device . The search system generates a response generally in the form of a search results page . The search results page can include search results that the search system has identified as being responsive to the query . If information about a private person is responsive to the query and ranks high among the search results and if the user has a relationship that allows the user to see a personal knowledge panel for the private person the search system includes in the search results page a personal knowledge panel that presents information about the private person. If the private person is the user himself or herself the search system provides the personal knowledge panel as an interface for the user to update one or more items of user information maintained by the search system. The search system transmits the search results page over the network back to the user device for presentation to a user. The system then receives through the user interface of the personal knowledge panel updated user information which the system can then use to update information about the user in one or more places of the search system .

The user device can be any appropriate type of computing device e.g. mobile phone tablet computer notebook computer music player e book reader laptop or desktop computer PDA personal digital assistant smart phone a server or other stationary or portable device that includes one or more processors for executing program instructions and memory e.g. random access memory RAM . The user device can include non volatile computer readable media that store software applications e.g. a browser or layout engine an input device e.g. a keyboard or mouse a communication interface and a display device.

The network can be for example a wireless cellular network a wireless local area network WLAN or Wi Fi network a Third Generation 3G Fourth Generation 4G or other telecommunications network a wired Ethernet network a private network such as an intranet a public network such as the Internet or any appropriate combination of such networks.

The search system can be implemented as computer programs installed on one or more computers in one or more locations that are coupled to each through a network. The search system includes a search system front end a search engine a knowledge panel engine and a social network engine . The computing device or devices that implement the search system front end the search engine the knowledge panel engine and the social network engine may include similar or different components.

In general the search system front end receives the query from the user device and routes the query to search engine and the knowledge panel engine . The search system front end also provides the resulting search results page that includes the search results and the personal knowledge panel the user device . In doing so the search system front end acts as a gateway or interface between user devices and the search system .

The social network engine generally maintains information regarding a social networking service. The social network engine can maintain various relationships e.g. social contact relationships between users of the social networking service. The social network engine can also receive items of digital content provided by users of the social networking service and make such digital content accessible by select other users of the social networking service. The social network engine can maintain data of the social networking service in social network database .

The knowledge panel engine receives the query and determines whether to present a knowledge panel for the query. The knowledge panel can for example compare the query to information in an entity database to determine whether a knowledge panel should be presented for an entity in the entity database . For example the knowledge panel engine can determine whether query matches an entity alias in the entity database . Each entity in the entity database can include data identifying one or more aliases for the entity. For example a famous celebrity may have several nicknames or stage names for which a user may enter as a query for the celebrity and each of these nicknames or stage names can be included as aliases for the entity in the entity index .

The knowledge panel engine can also determine to present a personal knowledge panel by obtaining a name of a user that is currently logged into the search system and comparing the name of the user with the query . If the name of the user matches the query the knowledge panel engine can decide to present a personal knowledge panel for the user. The knowledge panel engine then routes the personal knowledge panel back to the search system front end for inclusion in the search results page .

The knowledge panel engine can also receive user contacts information from a social network engine and determine if the query matches a name of one of the user s social networking contacts. The knowledge panel engine can also receive other user contacts information from other sources e.g. chat contacts from a chat engine that provides instant messaging services or email contacts from an email engine that provides email services for the user. The user contacts information can include a set of user identifiers for contacts of the user. If the query matches a name of one of the user s contacts the knowledge panel engine can generate a personal knowledge panel for the user s contact and route the personal knowledge panel back to the search system front end for inclusion in the search results page .

The search engine receives the query and generates search results that are responsive to the query. The search engine will generally include an indexing engine for indexing resources in a collection of resources. For example the search engine can index web pages found in a collection of web pages e.g. web pages on the Internet. A collection of resources indexed by the indexing engine may but need not be stored within search system e.g. in index database . The search engine can rank the search results using conventional methods and route the ranked search results back to search system front end for inclusion in the search results page .

The search engine may also rank search results based on personal knowledge panel information of the user or a contact of the user received from the knowledge panel engine which can include user provided information as well as automatically populated user information obtained from other sources e.g. a publicly accessible knowledge graph. For example a user can enable a search results personalization option for his or her account. With search results personalization enabled the search engine can use personal knowledge panel information of the user or a contact of the user to influence the ranking of search results .

The search system can use search results personalization with the personal knowledge panel for example to disambiguate search results that refer to people having a same name. For the query Jim Smith search results may identify multiple resources that reference Jim Smith. If any of the resources also reference other attributes of the personal knowledge panel information the search engine can boost those search results accordingly. For example if the personal knowledge panel information includes the occupation Accountant the search engine can boost a search result that identifies a resource that refers to Jim Smith the accountant.

If the query matches the logged in user s name the search results page will include a personal knowledge panel that is editable. The user can edit his or her own information by using the personal knowledge panel as an interface. Upon entering or updating his or her information through the personal knowledge panel the updated user information is transmitted back over the network to the search system . The search system front end can then route the updated user information to one or more modules of the search system e.g. to social network engine an email engine or a chat engine.

If the user has enabled search results personalization the updated user information may propagate to the search engine as updated personal knowledge panel information and may influence the rank of search results . Thus in some implementations the search engine can automatically rerank the search results and the search system can provide a corresponding updated search results page .

The system receives at an Internet search system a search query . The search query can be provided by a user using a default search interface of the search system used for searching resources on the Internet generally.

The system receives multiple search results identifying Internet resources satisfying the search query . The system can for example search a collection of indexed resources to identify search results that each identify a resource on the Internet.

The system determines that the search query matches a name of a user logged in to the system . The system can perform conventional spelling correction and query expansion techniques when determining whether the query matches a name of the user. For example the system may correct Jmi Smith to Jim Smith. The system may also expand the query Jim Smith so that it also matches a user having the full name James Smith. Furthermore the name matched may be one of multiple names of the user.

The system provides one or more search results and a personal knowledge panel in response to the query . The system can present the personal knowledge panel with the search results. The personal knowledge panel will generally include a presentation of one or more items of user provided information about the user or a contact of the user.

If the personal knowledge panel is provided for the user who is logged in each of the items of user provided information in the personal knowledge panel can be edited by the user and without requiring the user to leave the search results page. For example upon selection of an item of information by the user the presentation can transition to an input field where the user can edit or replace the corresponding item of information. For example the user can select a presented item corresponding to his or her occupation causing the item to change to editable input field. The user can then enter an updated occupation. Personal knowledge panels that are provided for contacts of the user will generally not be editable by the user.

The system will obtain and provide one or more search results that satisfy the query. The ranking of the one or more search results may be influenced by information in the personal knowledge panel. For example the system can use information in the personal knowledge panel to generate a revised query for example by adding to the original query one or more additional terms obtained from items of user provided or automatically populated user information presented in the personal knowledge panel. The system can also use information in the personal knowledge to cluster or filter search results.

The system receives updated user information . When the user has confirmed changes to his or her user information in the personal knowledge panel e.g. by selecting a Done editing user interface control the user application presenting the knowledge panel can transmit to the system the values of the updated user information. For example a web browser running on a user device can execute a client side script that transmits the updated user information back to the system upon the information being confirmed by the user.

Generally the submission of the updated user information will not require or cause the user application to navigate to another web page. Rather the updated user information can be transmitted transparently from the user s perspective and the user application can remain on the same search results page while the user s information is updated.

The system associates the updated user information with an account of the user . For example the system can update information associated with the user in one or more services of the system e.g. the user s email or social networking account.

If a user has enabled search results personalization the updated information in the personal knowledge panel may affect the ranking of the provided search results. In some implementations upon receiving the updated user information the system may automatically provide a new ranking of search results that is based on updated information in the personal knowledge panel

For example referring back to if a user changes the occupation field from Civil Engineer to Accountant the system can provide a new ranking of search results based on this information. The change from Civil Engineer to Accountant may alter the ranking of search results . For example the search result for Jim Smith the accountant my swap places with the search result for Jim Smith the civil engineer.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in tangibly embodied computer software or firmware in computer hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non transitory program carrier for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory device or a combination of one or more of them. The computer storage medium is not however a propagated signal.

The term data processing apparatus encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them.

A computer program which may also be referred to or described as a program software a software application a module a software module a script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

As used in this specification an engine or software engine refers to a software implemented input output system that provides an output that is different from the input. An engine can be an encoded block of functionality such as a library a platform a software development kit SDK or an object. Each engine can be implemented on any appropriate type of computing device e.g. servers mobile phones tablet computers notebook computers music players e book readers laptop or desktop computers PDAs smart phones or other stationary or portable devices that includes one or more processors and computer readable media. Additionally two or more of the engines may be implemented on the same computing device or on different computing devices.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors or both or any other kind of central processing unit. Generally a central processing unit will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a central processing unit for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few.

Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system modules and components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

