---

title: Display of data on a device
abstract: A device may be configured to display a first item in a region of a user interface based on a first value of an index that is associated with the first item. Sensor data may be received from a sensor indicating an angular change of orientation of the device. The index may be incremented to a second value based on the sensor data. The second value may be associated with a second item. The second item may then be displayed in the region of the user interface based on the index being incremented to the second value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09442638&OS=09442638&RS=09442638
owner: SAP SE
number: 09442638
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130822
---
The processing power and capabilities of devices including mobile devices such as smart phones tablets etc. have increased dramatically. Although the processing power and capabilities have increased a trade off for such devices may be screen size relative to the overall size of the device. Larger devices permit a greater viewable display area but may be bulkier. Similarly smaller devices are less bulky but have a less viewable area. As a result more information can be displayed on a larger device at a time and less information can be displayed on a smaller device. In some implementations scrollable panes are used to access additional information on both devices. That is a user of such devices may access and view additional information by using an input device such as a mouse a touch screen etc. to scroll and cause the device to display additional information not currently displayed on the screen. Such scrollable features may require finger nimbleness or may require the use of a second hand i.e. one hand to hold the device and a digit of another hand to scroll which may result in the additional data not being readily available to the user of the device if they do not have the requisite finger nimbleness or their second hand is preoccupied.

One implementation relates to a device having a sensor and a computer readable storage device. The computer readable storage device stores instructions that when executed by one or more data processors of the device cause the one or more data processors to perform several operations. The operations may include receiving data having a first item and a second item. The first item may be associated with a first value of an index and the second item may be associated with a second value of the index. The operations may further include receiving the first value of the index. The operations include displaying the first item in a region of a user interface displayed on a display of the device based on the first value of the index. The operations also include receiving first sensor data from the sensor of the device. The first sensor data may be indicative of a first angular change of orientation of the device. The operations may include determining if the first sensor data exceeds a predetermined value. The index may be incremented to the second value if the first sensor data exceeds the predetermined value. The operations may further include displaying the second item in the region of the user interface displayed on the display of the device based on the index being incremented to the second value associated with the second item.

Another implementation relates to a method of incrementally displaying related items in a common region on a display of a mobile device. The method may include displaying using a display module a first item in a region of a user interface displayed on a display of a mobile device based on an index having a first value. The first value may be associated with the first item. A sensor module may receive first sensor data from a first sensor of the mobile device. The first sensor data may be indicative of an angular change of orientation of the mobile device. The sensor module may output a next event to increment the index to a second value based on the first sensor data relative to prior sensor data. A control module may increment the index to the second value in response to the outputted next event. The method may further include displaying using the display module a second item in the region of the user interface based on the index having the second value. The second value may be associated with the second item.

Yet another implementation relates to a device including a model module configured to define a set of items stored in a computer readable storage device of the device. Each item of the set of items may be associated with a value of an index. The device may also include a sensor module configured to receive sensor data from one or more sensors of the device and to output an event based on the sensor data. The device may further include a control module configured to receive the event outputted by the sensor module and to modify the value of the index based on the received event. The device may yet further include a display module configured to display in a common region of a user interface displayed on a display of the device an item of the set of items based on the index indicating a corresponding value associated with the item.

It will be recognized that some or all of the figures are schematic representations for purposes of illustration. The figures are provided for the purpose of illustrating one or more implementations with the explicit understanding that they will not be used to limit the scope or the meaning of the claims.

Following below are more detailed descriptions of various concepts related to and implementations of methods apparatuses and systems for displaying data on a display of a device. The various concepts introduced above and discussed in greater detail below may be implemented in any of numerous ways as the described concepts are not limited to any particular manner of implementation. Examples of specific implementations and applications are provided primarily for illustrative purposes.

For users of computing devices including mobile devices it may be useful to display two or more pieces of information at the same position on a display of the device but having only one piece of information visible at a time. That is swapping information at the same position such that the remainder of the displayed information remains the same may permit the user to maintain the context for the one or more pieces of information. For example a user of a mobile device having a business application may utilize the business application to approve increases in salaries budgets etc. Such a user may find it useful to display the current value in a first instance and the proposed new value at a second instance. The current value and the proposed new value may not need to be displayed concurrently but could be displayed in the same position such as adjacent to the a label for Annual Salary Budget or the like for contextual purposes and swapped based on a user input. Other examples may include displaying pair of numerical figures with related labels several numerical values time dependent ordered series of numerical figures alphanumerical values images e.g. time series images actual versus target images spatially related or adjacent images etc. tabular data graphical data or other data in the same space and swapping the displayed information based on the user input.

Swapping out the information at the same position while maintaining other displayed portions may also advantageously simplify and reduce the data that needs to be processed by the device and or the data or coding for applications or files. For example a common template for a record may be utilized and displayed once by the device and only the values may be swapped based on the user input.

The swapping between the information may be conveniently triggered by a change in the angular orientation of the device due to moving or rotating the hand holding the device. For example a user of the device may pitch the device up or down to swap the displayed information. In other implementations the user may swap the displayed information by rolling the device left or right. The angular orientation of the device can be detected and measured by the built in sensors of the device. For example devices such as smart phones tablets or the like may possess an accelerometer and or a gyroscope that may be used to determine the current angular orientation of the device a change in the angular orientation an angular speed and or a rate of change of the angular orientation.

Swapping from first displayed information to other information may be transition free or may be animated. The animation may be based on the type of information. For example the display of a numerical time series may be animated to simulate the rotating of cylinder e.g. in a similar manner to a reel of a slot machine . In another example the display of images may be animated such that a first image is faded out while a second image is faded in i.e. cross fading by changing the opacity of the images.

While the foregoing has provided an overview of implementations for displaying data on a device in the same position and swapping the data based on a user input more specific examples and systems to implement such a system will now be described.

The processing module is coupled to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD Thin Film Transistor LCD TFT an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED display LED display Electronic Paper display Plasma Display Panel PDP and or other display etc. for displaying information and or items to a user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys may be coupled to the processing module for communicating information and command selections to the processing module . In another implementation the input device may be integrated with the display such as in a touch screen display. The input device may include a cursor control such as a mouse or a trackball for communicating direction information and command selections to the processing module and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

The device also includes a communications module that may be coupled to the processing module for providing a communication link between the device and a network not shown . As such the communications module enables the processing module to communicate wired or wirelessly with other electronic systems coupled to the network. For instance the communications module may be coupled to a USB cord an Ethernet line an antenna or other communications hardware that enables the device to connect to the Internet a wireless network or another network.

The processing module of the present example includes a data storage . The data storage stores items such as strings numerical values images or other information to be displayed on the display of the device . In some implementations the data storage may be part of the processing module such as that shown in or the data storage may be separate from the processing module and communicatively coupled to the processing module . In yet another implementation the data storage may be remote from the device e.g. stored on a remote server such as cloud data storage or otherwise and may be accessed via the communications module .

The processing module includes a model module configured to access and retrieve the data for the items or other information stored in the data storage . The model module is configured to define a set of items of the data storage such as a set of strings or a set of images based on a user interface control of the display module . Each item of the set of items may be associated or addressed by a corresponding value of an index denoting the items position in the set. That is a first item may be associated with a value of 1 for the index a second item may be associated with a value of 2 for the index a third item may be associated with a value of 3 for the index etc. As will be described in greater detail herein the association of the items or other information with the values of the index may be used by a display module to retrieve data from the model module to effect display of the item in a region of a user interface displayed by on the display based on the associated value of the index.

The processing module is further coupled to one or more sensors . The sensors may include a gyroscope an accelerometer a magnetometer or other sensors. The one or more sensors may output raw data to a sensor module of the processing module of the device . The sensor module may be configured to receive the raw data from the one or more sensors and output one or more events or other data to a control module of the processing module .

In an example implementation the sensor module may receive the sensor data from a gyroscope and determine a current angular orientation for the device . The sensor data for a gyroscope may be an angular speed about an axis or may be an angular orientation calculated thereof. In some other implementations the angular orientation can be derived from a magnetic field such as that measured by a magnetometer and a direction of gravity such as that measure by an accelerometer. The sensor data for an accelerometer may be a raw acceleration or a relative acceleration e.g. the acceleration of the device after removing the effects of gravity . In some implementations the sensor module may also determine if the sensor data exceeds one or more predetermined values. For instance the determination that the sensor data exceeds a predetermined value may include comparing sensor data output by the one or more sensors at a first time e.g. a datum for the device to sensor data output by the one or more sensors at a second time. The first and second times may be determined by a sensor polling interval. The sensor polling interval may be from 50 milliseconds inclusive to 1 second inclusive such as 50 milliseconds 100 milliseconds 200 milliseconds 250 milliseconds 500 milliseconds 1 second etc. If the difference e.g. an absolute difference between the sensor data at the first time and the sensor data at the second time exceed the predetermined value then the sensor module may be configured to output an event. Such a predetermined value may be set such that the sensor module does not output events for slight orientation changes of the device i.e. by setting the predetermined value such that a gyroscope sensor indicates an absolute angular speed of greater than a certain value and or an accelerometer sensor indicates an acceleration greater than a certain acceleration value . In some implementations the predetermined value may be set by a user of the device e.g. using a configuration utility provided by the device and or a configuration utility provided by an application executing on the device or may be set by a third party such as an application developer a device manufacturer etc.

In some implementations several predetermined values may be implemented. For example a first predetermined value may be set such that a difference between the received sensor data that is indicative of a change in angular orientation of between 10 degrees and 0 degrees inclusive does not cause the sensor module to output any event a second predetermined value may be set such that a difference between the received sensor data that is indicative of a change in angular orientation of between 45 degrees inclusive and 10 degrees inclusive causes the sensor module to output a first event and a third predetermined value may be set such that a difference between the received sensor data that is indicative of a change in angular orientation between 45 degrees and 90 degrees inclusive causes the sensor module to output a second event. Of course other values may be used and the foregoing are merely an example. In still further implementations several ranges of differences may result in several different events.

In addition to or in lieu of the several predetermined values for the angular orientation several predetermined values may be implemented for the received sensor data from the accelerometer. For example a first predetermined value may be set such that no event is output by the sensor module if the received sensor data from the accelerometer is below 0.1 meters per square second a second predetermined value may be set such that a first event is a output by the sensor module if the received sensor data from the accelerometer is between 0.1 meters per square second inclusive and 0.5 meters per square second inclusive and a third predetermined value may be set such that a second event is a output by the sensor module if the received sensor data from the accelerometer is greater than 0.5 meters per square second. Of course other values may be used and the foregoing are merely an example. In still further implementations several ranges of differences may result in several different events.

As will be discussed below such various predetermined values may be used to increment or decrement an index described in greater detail herein by various values. Of course such predetermined values may be omitted such that the sensor module outputs an event in response to changes in the received sensor data.

The sensor module is configured to output events to a control module of the processing module . The event output by the sensor module may be determined based on the direction of rotation of the device . For example if the received sensor data from the one or more sensors indicates a change in angular orientation of the device indicative of a user pitching the device up then the sensor module may be configured to output a previous event to the control module . Similarly if the received data from the one or more sensors indicates a change in angular orientation of the device indicative of a user pitching the device down then the sensor module may be configured to output a next event to the control module . Of course the foregoing may be reversed e.g. pitching up of the device causes the sensor module to output a next event and pitching the device down causes the sensor module to output a previous event . In still other implementations the change in angular orientation of the device may be indicative of a user rolling the device left or right to cause the sensor module to output the previous or next events.

In some implementations such as those utilizing several predetermined values the sensor module may be configured to output additional events such as 5 previous 10 previous 5 next 10 next etc. That is in addition to the binary configuration of previous and next events the sensor module may be configured to output several other events in response to different changes in angular orientation of the device e.g. a user may pitch the device up between 10 degrees and 45 degrees to cause the sensor module to output a previous event and a pitch change of between 45 degrees and 90 degrees causes the sensor module to output a 5 previous event. .

In still further implementations the sensor module may also be configured to receive sensor data indicative of a change in angular speed. In implementations such as those utilizing several predetermined values the sensor module may be configured to output the additional events such as 5 previous 10 previous 5 next 10 next etc. based on the gyroscope sensor data. For example the sensor module may receive sensor data indicative of a user pitching the device up and an angular speed greater than 2 radians per second which may cause the sensor module to output a 5 previous event to the control module . Similarly the sensor module may receive sensor data indicative of a user pitching the device down and an angular speed greater than 2 radians per second which may cause the sensor module to output a 5 next event to the control module .

In an implementation the sensor module may be implemented by a Java class. For example the class may implement a callback method such as for example onSensorChanged. The method onSensorChanged may be called periodically by a sensor manager of the device e.g. a manager of the sensors for the device that may be device dependent and which outputs the raw data from the sensors . The method onSensorChanged receives the current raw sensor data for the one or more sensors and an associated timestamp which may be received from an internal clock of the device . In some implementations the raw sensor data may be data indicative of an angle relative to a datum. For example angular pitch and or roll data may be measured relative to orthogonal axes of a plane extending through the device when the device is horizontal relative to the force of gravity. The angular yaw data may be measured relative to an axis defined by the direction of magnetic North. Thus a gyroscopic sensor may output sensor data indicative of the angular orientation relative to the aforementioned axes or reference datums.

In other implementations the raw sensor data may be a rate of rotation about an axis such as an angular speed about a pitch axis a roll axis or a yaw axis. The pitch axis roll axis or yaw axis may be defined by orthogonal axes of a plane extending through the device when the device is horizontal relative to the force of gravity and the axis corresponding to magnetic North. For angular speed raw sensor data a prior timestamp from a prior poll of the sensor data may be used with the current timestamp to determine a change in time t which when multiplied by the angular speed about one of the axes results in a value for the degree of angular rotation such as a pitch angle roll angle or yaw angle. As noted above regarding the predetermined values if over a short period of time the angular speed is sufficiently large thereby indicating a large change in the angle of orientation and the angular speed does not change sign i.e. the device is being rotated in one direction then the sensor module may output an event such as a previous event or a next event. The sign of the pitch rate either positive or negative may be used by the sensor module to determine whether an event indicating next or previous is output by the sensor module .

Referring still to the processing module includes a control module that receives the events output from the sensor module and is configured to modify the index. The index is used to determine what item or information based on being associated with a value of the index is output to be displayed on the display of the device . When the control module receives a previous event from the sensor module the control module may decrement the index. Similarly when the control module receives a next event from the sensor module the control module may increment the index. The control module may also receive a length of the index such that the control module does not exceed the length of the index when incrementing the index. In addition the control module may be configured to not decrement the index below 1 or in some implementations 0.

In some implementations such as those with additional event such as 5 previous 10 previous 5 next 10 next etc. when the control module receives the event the control module may increment or decrement the index by an associated value if possible e.g. if a 5 previous event is received by the control module then the control module will decrement the index by 5 . In some implementations if incrementing the index will result in the index exceeding the length of the index or decrementing the index will result in a value below 1 or 0 then the control module may simply modify the value of the index to the ending index value either the last index value if incrementing or 1 or 0 if decrementing. In some implementations the control module may also be configured to output an indication that the end of the index has been reached. In some implementations the control module may be configured to step through the incremented or decremented values. That is instead of increasing or decreasing the index value by 5 the control module may be configured to increment or decrement the index by 1 five times. Such step wise incrementing or decrementing may be used to display the interim items or information on the display of the device such as during an animation showing the change of items or information through several values of the index.

The control module is further configured to communicate with a display module of the processing module such that the display module may retrieve via the model module a corresponding item or information from the data storage based on the incremented or decremented index value. The display module includes a user interface control that references the list of items or information of the model module and the index of the control module which is associated with a corresponding item or information of the list of items of the model module to be displayed. The user interface control of the display module receives the value of the index from the control module and is configured to swap the information or item to be rendered on the display based on the change to the index value. In some implementations the user interface control of the display module may be parameterized to make the swapping of information or items from the model module animated. In addition the user interface control of the display module may further include color schemes styles or other attributes for displaying the items or information. Several different types of user interface controls may be defined for the display module based on the type of information or items to be displayed. Examples of such user interface controls will be described in greater detail herein.

Sensor data may be received that is indicative of an angular change of orientation of the device block . The sensor data may be received from the one or more sensors of the device by the sensor module . In some implementations the output from the one or more sensors may be pre processed by a sensor manager of the device e.g. to discretize the voltage output from the one or more sensors to output a raw numerical value for the sensor data. The sensor data may be indicative of an angular change of pitch of the device an angular change of roll of the device and or an angular change of yaw of the device . In some implementations the sensor data may also include data indicative of an angular speed of the device . In other implementations the angular speed of the device may be received as second sensor data from a second sensor such as the gyroscope. The second sensor data may be used by the control module to increment the index at an increment rate based on the second sensor data. For example a rapid rotation may cause the control module to increment through values of the index at a first increment rate. A slow rotation may cause the control module to increment through values of the index at a second increment rate. The second increment rate may be less than the first increment rate.

An event to modify the index based on the sensor data may be outputted block . As described above the sensor module may based on the received sensor data output a previous event a next event or other events e.g. 5 previous 10 previous 5 next 10 next etc. . The event may be outputted to the control module such that the control module will modify a value of the index based on the outputted event.

The process includes incrementing or decrementing the index to another value in response to the event block . The control module receives the event outputted by the sensor module and in response modifies the value of the index such as incrementing the value of the index in response to receiving a next event or decrementing the value of the index in response to receive a previous event. In some implementations the control module may be configured such that the control module will not increment the index beyond the length of a set of items associated with values of the index or decrement the index below a value of 1 or 0.

A second item is displayed in the same region of the user interface based on the value of the index block . When the value of the index is incremented or decremented by the control module the display module may receive an indication that the index has been modified and may receive the new value for the index. Based on the new value for the index the display module retrieves display data to effect display of a corresponding second item that is associated with the new value for the index. The display module may utilize the model module to retrieve the data to effect display of the second item from the data storage . Thus the second item replaces the first item in the region of the user interface in response to the change of angular orientation of the device . In some implementations the display of the second item may include an animated transition from the first item to the second item. Such an animated transition may include rolling the second item into view and rolling the first item out of view similar to a reel of a slot machine. In other implementations the animated transition may include cross fading from the first item to the second item. Still other animated transition may be implemented.

In some implementations the first item second item and third item may be numerical items string items alphanumeric items image items a data table item a graph or chart item and or other items. An example of numerical items are shown and described in reference to . The image items may include temporally related images such as a time series of annual revenue charts a time series of images of construction of a building a time series of images of a person aging etc. An example of time series image items are shown and described in reference to . In other implementations the image items may be an actual state image item and a target state image item. An example of an actual state image item and a target state image item are shown and described in reference to . In yet further implementations the image items may be spatially related such as a set of image items corresponding to computer tomography CT images. In other examples the spatially related images may be a set of images along a road. In still other examples the spatially related images may include floors of a building. Still other spatially related image items may be utilized as well. An example of a data table item and graph or chart item are shown and described in reference to .

A first value of the index is received block . For example when a user interface is displayed on the display of the device a first value such as a default value of 0 may be received such as from the control module as the first value of the index by the display module .

A first item is displayed in a region of a user interface based on a first value of the index block . When the display module receives the first value for the index the display module may retrieve display data to effect display of the first item that is associated with the first value of the index. The display module may utilize the model module to retrieve the data to effect display of the first item from the data storage .

First sensor data may be received that is indicative of a first angular change of orientation of the device block . The first sensor data may be received from the one or more sensors of the device by the sensor module . In some implementations the output from the one or more sensors may be pre processed by a sensor manager of the device e.g. to discretize the voltage output from the one or more sensors to output a raw numerical value for the first sensor data. The first sensor data may be indicative of an angular change of pitch of the device an angular change of roll of the device and or an angular change of yaw of the device . In some implementations the first sensor data may also include data indicative of an acceleration of the device .

A determination may be made whether the first sensor data exceeds a predetermined value block . The sensor module may receive the first sensor data and determine whether the first sensor data exceeds the predetermined value. As discussed above the predetermined value may be set such that incidental rotations of the device do not cause the sensor module to output an event to increment or decrement the value of the index. In some implementations several predetermined values may be utilized to provide for several different events to be outputted by the sensor module .

The value of the index may be incremented to the second value if the first sensor data exceeds the predetermined value block . The control module may increment the value of the index to the second value based on the first angular change of orientation of the device that exceeds the predetermined value. In some implementations the control module may receive an event from the sensor module to increment the value.

The second item is displayed in the region of the user interface based on the index being incremented to the second value block . When the display module receives the second value for the index from the control module the display module may retrieve display data to effect display of a corresponding second item that is associated with the second value of the index. The display module may utilize the model module to retrieve the data to effect display of the second item from the data storage . Thus the second item replaces the first item in the region of the user interface in response to the change of angular orientation of the device . In some implementations the display of the second item may include an animated transition from the first item to the second item. Such an animated transition may include rolling the second item into view and rolling the first item out of view similar to a reel of a slot machine. In other implementations the animated transition may include cross fading from the first item to the second item. Still other animated transition may be implemented.

In some implementations second sensor data may be received that is indicative of a second angular change of orientation of the device block . The second sensor data may be received from the one or more sensors of the device by the sensor module . The second sensor data may be indicative of an angular change of pitch of the device an angular change of roll of the device and or an angular change of yaw of the device . In some implementations the second angular change of orientation may be in a same direction as the first angular change of orientation e.g. both changes are pitching the device up . In other implementations the second angular change of orientation may be in an opposite direction as the first angular change of orientation e.g. the first angular change of orientation indicated a pitching up of the device and the second angular change of orientation indicated a pitching down of the device .

A determination may be made whether the second sensor data exceeds the predetermined value block . The sensor module may receive the second sensor data and determine whether the second sensor data exceeds the predetermined value. The predetermined value may be set such that incidental rotations of the device do not cause the sensor module to output an event to increment or decrement the value of the index. In some implementations several predetermined values may be utilized to provide for several different events to be outputted by the sensor module .

The value of the index may be incremented to the third value if the second sensor data exceeds the predetermined value block . The control module may increment the value of the index to the third value based on the second angular change of orientation of the device that exceeds the predetermined value. In some implementations the control module may receive an event from the sensor module to increment the value.

The third item is displayed in the region of the user interface based on the index being incremented to the third value block . When the display module receives the third value for the index from the control module the display module may retrieve display data to effect display of a corresponding third item that is associated with the third value of the index. The display module may utilize the model module to retrieve the data to effect display of the third item from the data storage . Thus the third item replaces the second item in the region of the user interface in response to the change of angular orientation of the device . In some implementations the display of the third item may include an animated transition from the second item to the third item. Such an animated transition may include rolling the second item into view and rolling the first item out of view similar to a reel of a slot machine. In other implementations the animated transition may include cross fading from the first item to the second item. Still other animated transition may be implemented.

In some instances such as when the second angular change of orientation is in an opposite direction as the first angular change of orientation the control module may decrement the index back to the first value if the second sensor data exceed the predetermined value. In such an instance the first item may again be displayed in the region of the user interface based on the index being decremented to the first value. The display module may retrieve display data to effect display of the first item based on the association of the first item with the first value of the index. The display module may utilize the model module to retrieve the data to effect display of the first item from the data storage .

The present example depicts a user interface for an approval process user interface. For example managers or other supervisors may be required to approve or disapprove of various changes based on facts that have changed. As an example a manager may have to decide on a promotion for an employee that may result in a change in annual salary. In the implementation shown the label such as Annual Salary may remain constant and the current and proposed values for the annual salary such as items may be displayed in the region one at a time. By declining the device for a few degrees such as 15 or 20 degrees the item which may correspond to the old annual salary may be replaced by item which may correspond to the new annual salary as shown in . Thus the data displayed by the user interface may not need to display both the current annual salary and the proposed salary to provide the relevant context. Instead the label which may remain constant can provide the relevant context and the data corresponding to items can be incrementally displayed in the same region . Similarly inclining the device a few degrees such as 15 or 20 degrees may result in the proposed new salary value or item may be replace by the old annual salary item . A third item which may be a demotion of annual salary may be displayed if the user inclines the device for a few degrees again. In some implementations the color for displayed value of each item may be different. For example item may be associated with a black color indicating the current value item may be associated with a green color indicating the next value and item may be associated with a red color indicating a previous value. Such colors may provide an additional visual cue to a user of the device of the change between items .

When a user changes the angular orientation of the device the one or more sensors of output raw sensor data to the sensor module . The sensor module may determine whether the sensor data exceeds a predetermined value such that incidental changes in angular orientation do not inadvertently swap items shown in the region . In the example shown in when the user sufficiently declines the device then the sensor module outputs a next event to the control module . The control module in response to receiving the next event increments the value of the index from a value of 2 which is associated with item to a value of 3. The display module receives the incremented value of the index from the control module and retrieves the data to effect display of the item that corresponds to the newly incremented value of the index which in the present example corresponds to item and the value of 3 for the index. The display module then effects display of the item in the region of the user interface while leaving the label unchanged. Thus a user may efficiently swap information or items displayed in the same region of a user interface by simply rotating the device with a single hand.

In some implementations the sensor module may determine the angular change in orientation of the roll of the device such that items may be swapped based on rolling the device left or right. In still further implementations the items may be animated when swapped such as rolling from one item to the next cross fading etc. Of course it should be understood that the foregoing is merely an example and other user interfaces for displaying labels and items may be used as well.

Similar to that described above in reference to switching between items in starting with the first or the last or any otherwise image item of the time series switching to the previous or next image item may be accomplished by inclining or declining the device thereby causing the control module to increment or decrement the value for the index in response to an event output from the sensor module . In some implementations the switching between image items may be based on the roll angle of the device by rolling the device left or right. In still further implementations the image items may be animated when they are swapped such as cross fading from a first image item to a second image item .

Similar to that described above in reference to switching between items in switching between image items may be accomplished by inclining or declining the device thereby causing the control module to increment or decrement the value for the index in response to an event output from the sensor module . In some implementations the switching between image items may be based on the roll angle of the device by rolling the device left or right.

In yet another example several image items may be included in a set of image items. For example a series of spatially related images such as computer tomography CT images of a patient may be included in the set of spatially related image items. A doctor may access the CT images on a device such as a tablet and has comfortable access to transition through the spatially related image items by declining or inclining the tablet. The degree of inclination or declination may result in a slow or fast forward or backward progression through the set of image items. For example inclining the tablet between 10 degrees and 45 degrees may result in a slow progression through the set of image items while inclining the tablet greater than 45 degrees may result in a fast progression through the set of image items. Thus the user may transition through a set of data using a single hand to incline or decline the device leaving the user with a free hand for other purposes.

Similar to that described above in reference to switching between items in switching between the data table view item transitions to the graph or chart view item may be accomplished by inclining or declining the device thereby causing the control module to increment or decrement the value for the index in response to an event output from the sensor module . In some implementations the switching between the data table view item transitions to the graph or chart view item may be based on the roll angle of the device by rolling the device left or right.

Examples of user interface controls that may be implemented by the display module may include a Layered Label user interface control for string items numerical items and or alphanumerical items a Layered Image user interface control for image items and a Layered Chart user interface control for tabular data items and or chart items. Such user interface controls instead of being able to display a single property value instead reference an ordered list of string items numerical items alphanumerical items image items tabular data items and or chart items.

By way of example only the Layered Label user interface control may be an output control with a set of display list items e.g. string items numerical items alphanumerical items etc. that is configured to display one item from the set at a time. A display list item may include a label and a value for the display list item. Displaying the previous or next data item from the set of display list items may occur when the display module receives a change to a property displayedItemIndex. The change to the property displayedItemIndex may be controlled by the control module and occur in response to receiving an event from the sensor module .

In some implementations the transition from one display list item to another may be animated. The animated transition may include a parameter defining the length of the animated transition e.g. 1000 milliseconds . In some implementations the parameter may be based on the angular change of orientation e.g. pitching up the device to an angle of 30 degrees results in a transition length of 1000 milliseconds and pitching up the device at an angle of 70 degrees results in a transition length of 500 milliseconds . In other implementations the parameter defining the length of the animated transition may be based on the angular speed e.g. an angular speed of the device of 1 radian per second results in a transition length of 1000 milliseconds and an angular speed of the device of 2 radians per second results in a transition length of 500 milliseconds . In still other implementations the parameter defining the length of the animated transition may be based on both the angular change of orientation and the angular speed.

In some implementations the animation may roll similar to a reel of a slot machine from one display list item to the next or in instances where the index value increments multiple values through several display list items . In other implementations the animation may fade out the first display list item and fade in a subsequent display list item e.g. cross fading . In some further implementations the current display list item may be associated with a first color and the next display list item may be associated with a second color thereby visually distinguishing the two values .

The Layered Label user interface control may include a function setDisplayedItemIndex index that may be utilized by the control module to increment or decrement the index for the display module . The Layered Label control may also include a function getDisplayedItemIndex to retrieve a display list item to be displayed on a display of the device based on the value for the index. The variable index may be a 0 based index for the set of display list items. If the value of index is negative or greater than the current size of the set of display list items then an exception may occur.

In another example the Layered Image user interface control may be an output control with a set of image items that is configured to display one image at a time. An image item may include a label and a value for the image such as a file name location a local location or a remote location such as a URL etc. Displaying the previous or next image item in the set of image items may occur when the display module receives a change to a property displayedImageIndex. The change to the property displayedImageIndex may be controlled by the control module and occur in response to receiving an event from the sensor module .

In some implementations the transition from one image item to another may be animated. The animated transition may include a parameter defining the length of the animated transition e.g. 1000 milliseconds . In some implementations the parameter may be based on the angular change of orientation e.g. pitching up the device to an angle of 30 degrees results in a transition length of 1000 milliseconds and pitching up the device at an angle of 70 degrees results in a transition length of 500 milliseconds . In other implementations the parameter defining the length of the animated transition may be based on the angular speed e.g. an angular speed of the device of 1 radian per second results in a transition length of 1000 milliseconds and an angular speed of the device of 2 radians per second results in a transition length of 500 milliseconds . In still other implementations the parameter defining the length of the animated transition may be based on both the angular change of orientation and the angular speed.

In some implementations the animation may fade out the first image item and fade in a subsequent image item e.g. cross fading . In other implementations the animation may be configured to oscillate between the current image item and the subsequent image item.

The Layered Image user interface control may include a function setDisplayedImageIndex index that may be utilized by the control module to increment or decrement the index for the display module . The Layered Image control may also include a function getDisplayedImageIndex to retrieve an image item to be displayed on a display of the device based on the value for the index. The variable index may be a O based index for the set of image items. If the value of index is negative or greater than the current size of the set of image items then an exception may occur.

In yet another example the Layered Chart user interface control may be an output control that can render a set of data as a data table or as graph or chart. In one implementation the index may control which view is visible e.g. and index value of 0 is associated with the data table view and an index value is associated with the graph or chart view . In other implementations the index may instead utilize strings of table for the data table view and chart for the graph or chart view. Accordingly the control module may be configured to change the string from table to chart and vice versa in response to receiving an event from the sensor module .

In some implementations the transition from the data table view to the graph or chart view and vice versa may be animated. The animated transition may include a parameter defining the length of the animated transition e.g. 1000 milliseconds . In some implementations the animation may fade out the data table view and fade in the graph or chart view e.g. cross fading or vice versa.

The Layered Chart user interface control may include a function setDisplayedView index that may be utilized by the control module to modify the index for the display module . The Layered Chart control may also include a function getDisplayedView to retrieve the view to be displayed on a display of the device based on the value or string of the index.

The measured inclinations from sensors coupled to the sensor module may be accessible via application programming interfaces APIs . Changing values of the sensors trigger events output by the sensor module that are handled by listeners in the business logic . The listeners interpret the events and call the corresponding method of the event handling control such as Layered Label. In the example shown implementing the Layered Label event handling control the Layered Label event handling control swaps the displayed list item such as numerical figures and changes the visible data among the memorized data.

According to various implementations the processes and or methods described herein can be implemented by the device of in response to the processing module executing an arrangement of instructions contained in a main memory. Such instructions can be read into the main memory from another computer readable medium such as data storage . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in the main memory causes the device to perform the illustrative processes and or method steps described herein. Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software embodied on a non transitory tangible medium firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on one or more computer storage media for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus.

A computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices . Accordingly the computer storage medium is both tangible and non transitory.

The term computing device or processing module encompasses all kinds of apparatuses devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones a portion of a programmed processor or combinations of the foregoing. The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA or an ASIC. The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features of some implementations. Certain features described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products embodied on tangible media.

References to or may be construed as inclusive so that any terms described using or may indicate any of a single more than one and all of the described terms.

Thus particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. It should be understood that various changes in form and detail may be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from scope of the appended claims. All implementations that come within the scope of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed.

