---

title: Method and system tracking and determining public sentiment relating to social media
abstract: A method for determining influential broadcast messages in which a processing device identifies a plurality of re-posts of a post, wherein each re-post comprises a time stamp, determines whether the time stamp of the re-post is within a first time interval or a second time interval, increments a first count associated with the first time interval when the time stamp is within the first time interval or a second count associated with the second time interval when the time stamp is within the second time interval, and determines a public sentiment attribute associated with the post in view of a comparison between the first count and the second count.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313149&OS=09313149&RS=09313149
owner: ACQUIRE MEDIA VENTURES INC.
number: 09313149
owner_city: Roseland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130711
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 670 342 filed Jul. 11 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure generally relates to analyzing content on the World Wide Web to track and determine public sentiment relating to social media. More specifically this disclosure uses a statistical approach to track and analyze user submitted content posts and re posts on the Web and to determine the respective public sentiment of that content.

The World Wide Web or Internet is a global resource with an abundance of content and information created by people across the globe herein referred to as users . User submitted content can be found on several different social media platforms Web sites social media networks and other Web sources that are publicly available on the Web. Examples of particular social media platforms which provide a mechanism for users to submit content include Twitter Facebook and Pinterest which are examples of micro blog content and image sharing platforms. Users of such social media platforms can post a message micro blog message or image herein referred to as a post for others to read view respond to and share. For example the Twitter social media platform currently supports more than 100 million users and over 400 million posts i.e. Tweets per day. With such social media platforms containing such a vast amount of user generated content data from a social media platform can be a valuable resource for determining public sentiment relating to various issues topics people or companies.

Many people are interested in analyzing such social media content available on the Web particularly content created by user activity on social media sites such as for example Twitter Facebook and Pinterest . One particular example of a set of users who may be interested in such analysis is stock market traders who generally have an interest in the public sentiment of companies or other financially impactful information. Many solutions are currently available to monitor online content such as basic Web aggregation software but these solutions fail to measure the real time public sentiment of social media users. For example a search can be performed using key words that analysts are interested in creating a simple count of key word mentions on social media platforms. The amount of mentions can provide a basic measurement of interest and a large number of key word mentions can determine a high interest in a topic but there is little context for this amount in regards to time or rate of increase. While this known approach has been conducted in prior art and is commonly used today modern social media sites provide more mechanisms for sharing information. Social media sites often provide a mechanism to re post content from users or to copy and republish the same content that interests them. For example Twitter provides a mechanism to re post user submitted content through a mechanism coined as a Retweet . A Retweet is created by a Tweet that has been posted on the social media platform Twitter . The Tweet can then be read by another Twitter user who can then re post the Tweet based on the user s interest in the Tweet. In other words the same short message that has been posted by a user can be re posted by a different user which is called a Retweet. Retweets can continue to be re posted by additional users to create an expanding content base of Retweets of the same message.

In another example Facebook provides a mechanism to re post the user submitted content through a mechanism coined a Like . A Like creates a connection between the posted content on the social networking site Facebook and a different user who likes or affirms a person s posted content. In another example Pinterest provides a mechanism to re post the user submitted content through a mechanism coined a Re pin . Users can browse others posts for images and Re pin images to their own account.

Simply mentioning a specific area of interest does not provide sufficient information to fully articulate public perception of a topic. For example a user can mention a certain word such as Factories in a message and several users can mention the same word Factories but counting how many times the word factories is mentioned will not provide information greater than the information present at hand e.g. factories mentioned X number of times .

Accordingly what would be desirable is a method that can determine the public sentiment attribute of a post. Moreover due to the widespread use of social networking sites such as for example Twitter Facebook and Pinterest the public sentiment of issues a company or any other area of interests may be measured using the methods described herein.

While simply counting the number of posts containing significant key words would provide some measure of public sentiment what would be desirable is a method that provides a more complex measure of the growth and expansion of re posts of a message or an image.

Presented herein is a method to track and determine a public sentiment attribute relating to social media to neglect irrelevant data and to create a method for measuring an expansion rate of re posts to determine a public sentiment about an original post.

It is to be understood that the attached drawings are for purposes of illustrating the concepts of the disclosure and may not be to scale.

The present disclosure provides a method and system for individual client or server machines to collect user generated Web content and to calculate public perception of a post based on re posts. Using the aggregated Web content from social media platforms for example Twitter and its Retweeting feature or Facebook and its Like feature or Pinterest and its Re pin feature the present disclosure describes an algorithm further described herein that calculates the rate of expansion of re posted messages e.g. Retweets Likes or Re pins etc. . A re post expansion rate is measured to determine the significance of the subject matter and public interest in the original post. In an example the disclosure includes a method which may be referred to as the Velocity Of ReTweet Expansion or VORTEX.

As used herein the term post is intended to include any type communication including a short entry text message an audio message a message content a broadcast message an image a video or combination thereof that may be displayed by a user on a social media account e.g. a Tweet on the Twitter platform a pin on the Pinterest platform a status update comment photo audio playback or advertisement on the Facebook platform and the like for other users to consume e.g. read view respond to and or share . As used herein the term re post is intended to include a replication or reference to an affirmation of the post. Examples of a re post include but are not limited to a republishing of a short message that has previously been posted e.g. a Retweet on the Twitter platform an affirmation of a message e.g. a Like on the Facebook platform and a republishing of an image that has previously been posted e.g. a Re pin on the Pinterest platform . It is to be understood that the above described social media platforms have been made in an illustrative fashion and not a restrictive one and that any post and re post may be tracked and analyzed.

According to an embodiment the present disclosure can be implemented as part of a computer program application computer executable instructions or software package. As used herein the term program application software package processing logic or computer executable instructions refers to instructions that may be performed by a processor and or other suitable components. The term computer or server as used herein is not limited to any one particular type of hardware device but may be any data processing device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a kiosk terminal a personal digital assistant PDA or any equivalents or combinations thereof. Any device or part of a device configured to process manage or transmit data whether implemented with electrical magnetic optical biological components or otherwise may be made suitable for implementing the disclosure described herein.

As used herein the term communicatively connected is intended to include any type of connection whether wired or wireless in which data may be communicated. Furthermore the term communicatively connected is intended to include a connection between devices and or programs within a single computer or between devices and or programs on separate computers.

In one embodiment the environment includes a network e.g. Internet World Wide Web etc. which may be any type of communications medium that allows for tracking and determining public sentiment relating to social media between the user interface the posts and re posts and the system and processing logic for tracking and determining public sentiment the determining system . In an example the system or portion thereof may be referred to as VORTEX.

The determining system includes a computing device such as a server and processing logic for tracking and determining public sentiment relating to social media. The determining system can be a desktop computer a laptop computer a dedicated server computer a console device a network device or a similar computing device. As used herein public sentiment refers to an aggregate of individual attitudes or beliefs about a certain topic. As used herein public sentiment attribute refers to for example an attribute or a label that may be associated with the post which describes a public sentiment about the post. As used herein social media refers to a means for network or Internet based interactions among people in which they can create share and exchange information and ideas. In an embodiment the determining system can operate as a stand alone system as shown in . In another embodiment the determining system can be integrated with the user interface not shown . In another embodiment the determining system can be integrated with the social media platform not shown .

The environment includes a user interface which may be any device capable of enabling a user to communicate with the determining system via the network including but not limited to a computer a smart phone a wireless device a tablet and or any suitable computing device. In an embodiment the user interface may be a mobile device e.g. a handheld device smart phone or web portal device that communicates with the network via a wireless connection. As used herein the term user is intended to include an individual person a group of people a corporate entity or the like who is interested in tracking and determining public sentiment relating to social media.

The environment includes a stream of posts and re posts . The stream of posts and re posts may be received or identified from a feed from the social media platform Web aggregation an Application Programming Interface API or any other method available for retrieving content over the network or Internet. In an embodiment the stream of posts and re posts can be analyzed by the determining system .

In an embodiment the filter unit may analyze the stream of posts and re posts for tracking and determining public sentiment relating to social media. A certain key word or a combination of key words and or unique identifiers e.g. a company identifier can be provided to the filter unit for capturing relevant data. The key word the combination of key words and or the company identifiers can be selected to create a search service for a specific company or area of interest. For instance to find information about a company like Google a key word of Google can be used or alternatively stock symbol GOOG can be used. A list of the key words key word combinations and unique company identifiers can be maintained by the determining system . When the key word key word combinations and or unique company identifiers is mentioned in a content a post or a re post in a particular social media platform such as Twitter the particular social media platform can be linked to this list and the post or re post can be collected and analyzed by the determining system .

In an embodiment the filter unit may remove irrelevant content based on key word key word combinations and or unique company identifiers. The filter unit can filter incoming content e.g. stream of posts and re posts using a variety of string matching techniques including but not limited to regular expressions or string matching libraries used in programming. Incoming content that matches a key word using one of these methods can be passed to the content identifying unit for further identification. The filter unit can discard or ignore incoming content that does not match the key word.

In an embodiment the content stream of posts and re posts can be passed through the filter unit to become a feed of filtered content. The feed at this stage may contain content that the user may be interested in based on the key word key word combinations and or unique company identifiers that are used in the filter unit .

The re post identifying unit may be responsible for analyzing and identifying a stream of user content or the stream of posts and re posts that have been filtered by the filtering unit . In one embodiment the re post identifying unit may identify whether a certain user content is a post or a re post. This can be identified based on the content of the message. Certain words or syntax in the message body such as RT Retweet via HT heard through MRT modified Retweet OH overheard PRT partial Retweet and other key words can be used to determine if the message is a re post of another message. If the re post identifying unit identifies that the message content is not a re post the re post identifying unit can ignore or discard the message in the user content for the purposes of this example. Content which are identified to be re posts can be passed through to the re post tracking unit .

In an embodiment the re post tracking unit can communicate with the data store to analyze identify and determine if a re post is one that is currently being tracked for public sentiment analysis. As used herein the term data store refers to a repository for containing and storing data. The data that is stored in data store may be related to tracking and storing a record of re post content which can include a time stamp that reflects the corresponding date and time that the content was re posted a re post count and any other information that may be relevant to that re post. As used herein a time stamp is a sequence of characters or encoded information identifying when a certain event occurred including the date and time of day accurate to a fraction of a second. If a re post is not in the data store for tracking for example if the re post is a new content then re post tracking unit can insert the re post into the data store along with the re post date and time and any other information deemed useful.

If the re post tracking unit identifies that the re post is already in the data store the public sentiment determining unit can compare the time stamp of the original post to the time stamp of the re post. If the time difference is within a time threshold or a time interval a count corresponding to the time threshold or time interval can be incremented. For instance if an original post has a time stamp of 10 00 00 two thresholds or time intervals may be generated to track re posts. For example if each threshold or time interval is 5 minutes then two re post intervals can be created for the time periods of 10 00 00 10 04 59 e.g. a first time interval and 10 05 00 10 09 59 e.g. a second time interval .

In an embodiment the beginning time of each time interval can coincide with the time stamp of the original post. For example if the time stamp of the original post is 10 03 52 then the first time interval can run from 10 03 52 thru 10 08 51 and the second time interval can run from 10 08 52 thru 10 13 51.

In another embodiment the time intervals can be of varying sizes and do not need to be contiguous. For example if the time stamp of the original post is 02 05 15 then the first time interval can run from 02 05 15 thru 03 05 14 and the second time interval can run from 08 05 15 thru 11 05 14. In this example different rates can be captures for different types of users. For instance the first interval can be targeted for the users who may constantly be monitoring the social media platform and may have a tendency to respond quickly with a re post to a post while the second interval can be targeted for the users who may periodically monitor the social media platform and may not be as responsive with a re post to a post.

The public sentiment determining unit can analyze additional re posts and their corresponding time stamps and increment count in the respective time intervals based on the respective time stamp. For instance if a re post has a time stamp of 10 03 00 and the content of the re post matches the content of an existing post or re post that may be stored in the data store the time stamp of 10 03 00 can be compared against the two established time intervals. In this example the time stamp falls within the first time interval 10 00 00 10 04 59 so the count that is associated with this time interval is incremented. Thus the public sentiment determining unit can maintain a count of re posts based on their time stamps respective to the time stamp of the original post.

In one embodiment if the time stamp of the re post does not fall within one of the established time intervals e.g. if the time stamp is after the latest interval then the public sentiment determining unit can discard or ignore the re post. In another embodiment if the time stamp of the re post does not fall within one of the established time intervals e.g. if the time stamp is after the expiration of the latest interval then the public sentiment determining unit can create an additional time interval inclusive of the time stamp for further analysis.

In an embodiment the most recent time intervals which have expired can be compared based on the current time stamp. For instance a re post record may be determined to have three time intervals for example 10 00 00 10 04 59 10 05 00 10 09 59 and 10 10 00 10 14 59. If the time stamp of the current re post is 10 10 01 the determining system can compare the first and second time intervals based on the second time interval just expiring. If the time stamp of the current re post is 10 15 01 the determining system can compare the second and third intervals. In another embodiment the determining system can analyze all intervals prior to the most recently expired interval. For instance based on the intervals described above if the time stamp of the current re post is 10 15 01 the determining system may include all 3 expired columns for analysis.

At Block the time intervals can be checked to determine whether or not the latest time interval has elapsed. If the latest time interval has elapsed a new time interval can be created to include the time stamp of the re post. If the latest time interval has not elapsed a determination can be made as to whether the time stamp of the re post is within the first time interval or the second time interval. In an embodiment the re post count of the most recently elapsed or expired time interval can be compared to the re post count of the previous time interval. At block a count of the first time interval or a count of the second time interval can be incremented in view of the determination of whether the time stamp of the re post is within the first time interval or the second time interval.

At Block a public sentiment attribute associated with the post or re post in view of a comparison between the count of the first time interval and the count of the second time interval can be determined. For example if the re post count associated with the second time interval is greater than the re post count associated with the first time interval a public sentiment attribute can be determined to be for example growing to indicate a growing public sentiment with respect to the original post. If the re post count associated with the second time interval is less than the re post count associated with the first time interval a public sentiment attribute can be determined to be for example diminishing or not growing with respect to the original post. In another embodiment a threshold can be used to determine whether to publish or to send a message comprising the public sentiment attribute or classification to a user associated with the original post.

In an embodiment the time intervals can be checked to determine whether or not the latest time interval has elapsed as a stand alone process. In other words the time intervals can be checked and the count of the first time interval and the count of the second time interval can be compared in the absence of an arrival of a re post. In an embodiment this check and comparison can be performed on a scheduled basis. For example the check for an expired time interval and the interval count comparison can be executed periodically e.g. every 1 second every minute every 10 minutes every hour etc. . In an embodiment the check for the expired time interval and the interval count comparison can be triggered via a scheduler process such as a cron or a time based job scheduler or other task scheduler. In an embodiment the periodic check and comparison can be executed by a process running on a loop with an interval for executing the check and comparison.

In an embodiment the public sentiment attribute or classification of the post can be qualified by a percent increase. For instance increase percentage threshold of 100 can be assigned as a threshold. For example if the count of re posts in the first time interval is 10 the re post would only publish if the count of re posts has increased by 100 or more for the next time interval or 20 re posts in the second time interval. For this example if the second time interval only has 18 re posts re post would not be published to the user despite the increase in re posts from the first time interval to the second time interval.

In another embodiment a numeric threshold may be configured for the second count being compared. For instance the re post count in either the first or the second time interval or both may be required to be greater than a predetermined count such as 10 000 re posts otherwise the public sentiment attribute is not deemed interesting nor worth publishing.

In another embodiment the re post counts of multiple time intervals may be compared to determine if a re post should be published. For instance the difference in re post count from interval 1 to interval 2 may be compared to the difference from interval 2 to interval 3. In one embodiment if the second difference from interval 2 to 3 is greater than the first difference from interval 1 to 2 it can be determined that interest in the re post is continuing to grow over multiple intervals and the re post can be published.

In another embodiment a threshold may be used for analyzing 3 or more time intervals. The comparisons of interval differences may be used as described above with the added requirement that the second difference may need to be a certain percentage higher than the first difference. For instance the re post count for the second interval may need to be at least 50 greater than the re post count for the first interval to determine continued increasing interest in the post. In another embodiment a numeric threshold may be used to determine a public sentiment attribute of increasing interest such as if the second difference increased by at least 5 000 re posts over the first difference.

In another embodiment using multiple interval differences slight decrease in re posts from the first to second time intervals may be allowed without affecting the public sentiment attribute. This decrease may be based on a percentage of the first time interval or based on a numeric value. For instance where the decrease threshold is 10 and the first interval is 100 000 the process may allow a second interval greater than 90 000 to still be deemed to have a public sentiment attribute of interesting and therefore worthy of publication.

After a re post is determined to have a public sentiment attribute of interesting and worthy of publication the re post may be published using any number of formats such as but not limited to text XML HTML and may be delivered to an end user or other recipient via any number of technologies such as but not limited to TCP feed FTP HTTP Web pages or any other hosted solution or direct feed. Published content may also be forwarded to another system for further processing or analysis. In an embodiment the above described method or portion thereof may be referred to as the Velocity Of Re post Expansion or VORTEX.

The header section includes six columns of data. The first column of data post ID are unique identifiers of different posts. The post content column 2 includes certain key words combination of key words and or unique identifiers e.g. a company identifier that are present in the respective post ID. The post content can be used by the filter unit as discussed above to filter incoming content stream of posts and re posts using string matching techniques. The initial post time column 3 is the date and time of the original post. The interval 1 count and interval 2 count columns 4 and 5 respectively reflect the number of re posts in each respective time interval. The classification column 6 can be the determined public sentiment attribute for each post ID.

For example post ID includes the key words Company A and invent . Since the number of re posts in interval 2 is greater than that of interval 1 this post can be classified with a public sentiment attribute as growing .

Regarding post ID which includes the key words Brand B and computer the number of re posts in interval 2 is less than that of interval 1. Hence this post can be classified with a public sentiment attribute as not interesting . For post ID having the key words Brand C and automobile the number of re posts in interval 2 is more than 100 than that of interval 1. Hence this post can be classified with a public sentiment attribute as substantially growing .

With respect to post ID which includes the key words Company D and IPO the number of re posts in interval 2 is less than that of interval 1. However since each count exceeds a threshold this post can be classified with a public sentiment attribute as high interest . For post ID having the key words Company E and Bankrupt the number of re posts in interval 2 is less than that of interval 1. Hence this post can be classified with a public sentiment attribute as not interesting .

It is understood that the scientific data can be leveraged as a notification system a publishing system or other analytics based on either the re post expansion phenomena or the information contained in the initial tweet since the information is now held to a greater standard as proven by the disclosure presented. Other information that can be published based on this disclosure and these findings can include but are not limited to the rate of growth of a post or re post the number of re posts in a time interval the original user and their influence on the Retweet expansion or other useful metadata information.

The components and other features described herein may be implemented as discrete hardware components or integrated in the functionality of hardware components such as ASICs FPGAs DSPs or similar devices. In addition these components may be implemented as firmware or functional circuitry within hardware devices. Further these components may be implemented in any combination of hardware devices and software components.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processing device may be complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computer RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. Processing device is configured to execute processing logic for determining public sentiment for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

Computer system may further include a network interface device . Computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

Data storage device may include a machine readable storage medium or more specifically a computer readable storage medium having one or more sets of instructions e.g. processing logic embodying any one or more of the methodologies of functions described herein. Processing logic may also reside completely or at least partially within main memory and or within processing device during execution thereof by computer system main memory and processing device also constituting machine readable storage media. Content processing logic may further be transmitted or received over a network via network interface device .

Machine readable storage medium may also be used to store the post and re post analysis of the determining system . While machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instruction for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term machine readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

The components and other features described herein may be implemented as discrete hardware components or integrated in the functionality of hardware components such as ASICs FPGAs DSPs or similar devices. In addition these components may be implemented as firmware or functional circuitry within hardware devices. Further these components may be implemented in any combination of hardware devices and software components.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as identifying determining incrementing associating sending classifying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory devices including universal serial bus USB storage devices e.g. USB key devices or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each of which may be coupled to a computer system bus.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent from the description above. In addition the present disclosure is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the disclosure as described herein.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that an arrangement configured to achieve the same results may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This description is intended to cover adaptations or variations of various embodiments of the present disclosure. It is to be understood that the above description has been made in an illustrative fashion and not a restrictive one. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

