---

title: System, apparatus and method for managing network device connectivity on heterogenous networks
abstract: According to one embodiment of the disclosure, a network device is described that includes at least one hardware processor and is configured to perform a number of operations. Some of these operations include receiving information associated with a level of connectivity by a client device to a first network, and receiving information associated with a level of connectivity by the client device to a second network. Based on the level of connectivity with the first network and the level of connectivity with the second network, the second network is selecting for the client device to access one or more resources, and thereafter, causing the client device to connect to the second network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380508&OS=09380508&RS=09380508
owner: ARUBA NETWORKS, INC.
number: 09380508
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131028
---
Embodiments of the disclosure relate to the field of wireless digital networks. More specifically one embodiment of the disclosure relates to the management of connectivity between a network device and a plurality of networks where at least two networks are directed to different technology types.

Over the last decade mobile devices have become the primary communications device for users. Given the proliferation of mobile devices along with increased presence of bandwidth intensive applications running on these mobile devices it has become a significant challenge to meet Quality of Service QoS demands on a given network. Such challenges are exacerbated at certain locations such as populous venues where thousands or tens of thousands of mobile devices are attempting to access the same network. As a result users of these mobile devices tend to experience frustration caused by significant connection difficulties when attempting to access the network and significant latency issues after access is granted.

It is contemplated that over the last few years Wireless Fidelity WiFi hotspots which operate in accordance with the IEEE 802.11 standard 2012 have gained popularity as a cellular offload to help alleviate any resource limitations present in a particular cellular network. However the effectiveness of WiFi hotspots has not been fully realized because the individual mobile devices are solely responsible for deciding when to switch from cellular to WiFi or vice versa and normally deploy communications switching policies that are heavily weighted in staying on the WiFi network regardless of the connectivity levels.

Furthermore as individual mobile devices are currently responsible for deciding when to switch from one network e.g. cellular to another network e.g. WiFi it has become quite difficult for network service providers to manage capacity demands. The reason is that the mobile devices are capable of connecting and using different networks so capacity demands can vary significantly.

What is needed is a framework that enables one or more network devices to dynamically coordinate device connectivity even on a per session basis to different heterogeneous networks.

Embodiments of the disclosure relate to a framework for dynamically managing connectivity to different types of heterogeneous networks with overlapping coverage areas. Examples of different types of heterogeneous networks include but are not limited or restricted to a first type of wireless WiFi network representative of an IEEE 802.11 based network a second type of wireless WiMax network representative of an IEEE 802.16 based network a cellular network and or a Bluetooth network. Partially involved in the control of connectivity to the different types of heterogeneous networks edge network devices may be configured to maintain information obtained from signaling received from the client network devices and forward such information to an aggregating network device which subsequently routes the collected information to another network device sometimes referred to as a managed service provider MSP . Alternatively the client device may receive information from one edge device and provide information based on this received information to the MSP via another edge device where the information is used for management of network connectivity.

In general the network device e.g. MSP manages connectivity to all of the heterogeneous networks. Such management of network connectivity may involve the transmission of one or more message s by the network device to different edge devices in order to influence sometimes referred to as steer connectivity of both active and idle client devices to a particular set of networks. These message s may be in the form of 1 a blacklist report to the aggregating device which subsequently instructs various edge devices to avoid responding to a request by the client device for establishing a network connection and or 2 a whitelist report to the aggregating device which subsequently instructs one or more of the edge devices that they are permitted to respond to such connection requests.

Furthermore the network device may be adapted to partition access to network resources by client devices or to partition access to sets of client devices by certain networks. The partitioning of access by client devices to network resources may be based on network metrics such as capacity and or load. However the partitioning of access by networks to sets of client devices may be based on load e.g. number of client devices and or device metrics such as device characteristics e.g. device type device manufacturer radio type etc. and or device capabilities such as transmit receive speed installed transport protocol installed security features network subscription level or the like. This partitioning is conducted by the network device in order to optimize overall network performance.

In summary one embodiment of the disclosure describes a system that is adapted to receive information associated with connectivity levels of a client device to at least a first network and a second network. Where the client device is connected to the first network namely a data communication path is established between the client device and an edge device of the first network the connectivity information may include connection metrics session metrics application metrics network metrics and or device metrics. One or more of these metrics may be used to formulate a level of connectivity which is evaluated with the level of connectivity offered by other networks. The results of the evaluation determine whether or not a triggering event has occurred which denotes that the client device should be steered to establish a connection with another network.

As illustrative examples the connection metrics may include measured or estimated strength of signaling from the client device link characteristics such as estimated or measured airtime for transmissions by the client device or the like. Session metrics are metrics associated with communication sessions conducted by the client device such as the type of data being transmitted bandwidth usage for the session and or QoS requirements for the session. The application metrics are metrics associated with applications running on the client device such as the type of application a classification of the application e.g. latency tolerant or intolerant etc. or application requirements. Network metrics may include capacity load e.g. any granularity per network edge device channel frequency band etc. or other information associated with the first network. Lastly client device capabilities may include information that identifies the device type and or features associated with the particular device.

Similarly as the client device is not connected to the second network one or more edge devices of the second network may still monitor the air to i detect the presence of the client device or ii operate to enable the client device to detect the presence of the second network. Herein the connectivity information may include the measured and or estimated data from signaling originating from the client device and or signaling received by the client device and originating from the edge device e.g. beacon signal strength measurements for example . The application session network and or device metrics may be estimated from monitored communications as well.

Another embodiment of the disclosure describes a system that is adapted with a connection policy for a plurality of networks including at least a first network and a second network where the first network is a different technology type than the second network. For instance the first network may be a WiFi network and the second network may be a cellular network. In lieu of receipt of connectivity information associated with at least the first network and the second network the current connectivity of a client device to the first network is determined whether such connectivity is in compliance with the connection policy. Based on results of the analysis of the current connectivity of the client device and the connection policy the client device may be steered to establish connectivity to the second network.

The following scenario provides an illustrative demonstration of the framework for managing network connectivity for a client device such as a mobile network device for example 

Some of the triggering events that are monitored by a network device to determine whether the mobile network device needs to be steered to another type of network may involve one or more of the following metrics 1 signal strength e.g. steer a mobile network device to another network based on a comparison of signal strength measurements among the accessible networks and if the current signal strength level falls below a threshold 2 capacity e.g. steer mobile network devices towards the network with highest unused network capacity 3 load e.g. steer mobile network devices based at least in part on the load on the currently connected network 4 session type e.g. steer mobile network devices based at least in part on the type of data to be transmitted received via the network or the Quality of Service QoS level needed 5 link characteristics e.g. steer mobile network devices based at least in part on airtime needs or 6 application type e.g. steer a mobile network device based at least in part on the type of application s running on the mobile network device that identifies specific functionality or latency requirements . For this application layer steering certain applications that are latency sensitive can be instructed to use a different network as compared to delay tolerant applications.

Herein certain terminology is used to describe features within embodiments of the invention. For example the term network device generally refers to electronic equipment configured to communicate over a wired and or wireless network and process information related to such communications. Hence the network device may be adapted with circuitry to support wireless connectivity with other network devices being part of a wireless network. Different types of network devices may include but are not limited to 1 a client device being any consumer electronics with connectivity to multiple networks that are based on different technologies such as cellular wireless e.g. WiFi or WiMax Bluetooth or the like 2 an edge device and or 3 a data control device.

Herein client device may be a stationary network device e.g. desktop computer television set top box video gaming console etc. or a mobile network device capable of connecting to multiple networks with at least two of such networks having different technologies. Illustrative examples of mobile network devices may include a tablet laptop netbook bar code scanner a digital camera and or a mobile handset such as a smartphone personal digital assistant PDA or the like. Likewise illustrative examples of an edge device which at least partially controls access to a network may include a wired access port wireless access port wireless base station a cellular base station or any device configured as a hot spot or gateway for network connectivity. Illustrative examples of a data control device may include but are not limited or restricted to a network switch a controller a router a brouter or the like.

An aggregating device is a type of data control device that includes hardware circuitry adapted to receive and process information from multiple edge devices for subsequent use in managing wireless association between client devices and edge devices.

It is contemplated that a network device includes hardware logic such as one or more of the following i processing circuitry ii one or more communication interfaces such as a radio e.g. component that handles the wireless data transmission and or reception and or a physical connector to support wired connectivity and or iii memory in the form of a non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive etc. or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive portable hard disk drive or the like.

Herein the term logic is generally defined as hardware and or software. For example as hardware logic may include processing circuitry e.g. a microcontroller any type of processor a programmable gate array an application specific integrated circuit etc. semiconductor memory combinatorial logic or the like. As software logic may be one or more software modules such as executable code in the form of an executable application an application programming interface API a subroutine a function a procedure an object method implementation an applet a servlet a routine a source code an object code a shared library dynamic load library or one or more instructions. These software modules may be stored in any type of a suitable non transitory storage medium described above or transitory computer readable transmission media e.g. electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals .

The term link is a physical or logical communication path between two or more network devices. Examples of links supporting wireless communications may include certain radio frequency RF channels and or bands or cellular frequency channels and or bands as well as the logic associated therewith.

The terms connected and connection generally relate to an established communication path between two network devices that enables one network device to transfer data targeted specifically for receipt by the other network device. Hence the level of connectivity identifies the link quality level which may be used to assess whether a particular radio link has properties capable of supporting current sessions and applications running on the client device. The level of connectivity may be determined through analysis of connection metrics session metrics application metrics network metrics and or device metrics hereinafter generally referred to as client metrics .

The term message generally refers to information transmitted as information in a prescribed format where each message may be in the form of a packet a frame an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cell or any other series of bits having the prescribed format.

Lastly the terms or and and or as used herein are to be interpreted as an inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore A B or C or A B and or C mean any of the following A B C A and B A and C B and C A B and C. An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements functions steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.

As this invention is susceptible to embodiments of many different forms it is intended that the present disclosure is to be considered as an example of the principles of the invention and not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments shown and described.

According to one embodiment of the disclosure as shown in one or more edge devices and or operate as gateways to control access to different networks that are communicatively coupled to a common public network such as the Internet. These edge devices and or may include one or more access points APs where a 1 that control connectivity to a first wireless WiFi network one or more cellular base stations where b 1 that control connectivity to a cellular network and or one or more wireless base stations where c 1 that control connectivity to a second wireless WiMAX network. Each of these edge devices and enable a client device such as a mobile network device having capabilities for communicatively coupling with two or more of edge devices and for example to access public network .

According to one embodiment of the disclosure from one or more edge devices and or an aggregating device is adapted to receive information associated with client device along with metrics for the networks associated with these edge devices and or . The collected information is provided as client device information to a network device sometimes referred to as a management service provider MSP which is adapted to control the edge devices in order to influence the connectivity of client device to a particular network that may be better suited for its current operating state. Such control may be based on an analysis of client metrics contained within one or more report messages as shown in .

Referring now to a report message is received from one or more of the edge devices associated with different networks where each report message includes client metrics formulated from signaling from the client device that is received and processed by a particular edge device. For instance as an illustrative example a report message comprises client metrics such as the current signal strength measurement of received messages from client device e.g. signal to noise ratio SNR received signal strength indicator RSSI or an equivalent signal strength reading as well as network load e.g. number of network devices associated with AP .

As is understood in the art each of the edge devices . . . . . . . . . and or e.g. AP comprises at least one processor memory and multiple input output I O interfaces not shown . The memory may comprise fast read write memory for holding processor data and instructions while operating and nonvolatile memory such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and or Flash for storing files and system startup information. One of I O interfaces may be a wired interface that is typically one or more IEEE 802.3 Ethernet interfaces used for wired connections to other network devices including the aggregating device. Another of the I O interfaces may be a wireless interface that is typically one or more radios operating on different frequency bands e.g. 2.4 gigahertz GHz and 5 GHz .

Aggregating device and MSP are similar purpose built network devices containing a similar hierarchy of one or more processor memory and input output interfaces. Also client device is a mobile network device that contains a processor memory a display a wireless interface and other interfaces as needed.

According to one embodiment of the disclosure each edge device and or maintains a client table not shown the contents of which may be shared with network device or even shared among the different edge devices for a particular network. For instance AP may upload client metrics associated with detected wireless signaling from client device to network device . Similarly cellular base stations and WiMax base stations may share received client metrics respectively.

It is contemplated that such client metrics may be obtained through passive scanning where at certain times the edge devices and or may scan for signaling present on various wireless frequency bands channels and cellular frequency bands channels. Alternatively the client metrics may be obtained through active scanning where the network device or another network device may request one or more edge devices and or to transmit messages to solicit a response from a targeted client device or responses from client devices operating on a particular wireless frequency band channel or a particular cellular frequency band channel.

An illustrative embodiment of the client table is shown in . The client table in one of the edge devices e.g. AP may be of limited size for example entries with entries aged out as the table fills. Upon detection of a new client device as identified by a client MAC address an entry is added to the client table . An example of entry includes at least a client Media Access Control MAC address and signal strength measured for a received message. Other information such as a timestamp channel frequency band session type for the current communications e.g. video audio text images etc. and application type or classification targeted for processing of the data associated with the session e.g. travel based application such as GOOGLE Maps APPLE Maps any electronic email email application any instant messaging application any social media application such as Twitter ticket scanning display application etc. . If the client MAC address already existed in the table the entry for that client MAC address may be updated accordingly where prior values may be deleted or stored elsewhere in the client table or separate therefrom.

The report message may also contain specific information associated with the edge device including but not limited or restricted to edge device capabilities Basic Service Set Identifier BSSID or cellular based identifier or the like. As shown specific information may be stored as part of an appropriate entry in the client table or may be stored separately.

Referring to according to this embodiment of the disclosure each edge device and or sends its newly stored client metrics back to the aggregating device via report message . As an example this may occur periodically such as every q seconds q 1 for example. Of course the client metrics may be transmitted in an aperiodic manner where the transmission may be triggered by one or more events such as an update or addition to the client table or a combination of time and events. Also the client metrics may be provided to the aggregating device via authentication servers on different networks as shown in .

This client reporting process is repeated by each of the edge devices and for each of the heterogeneous networks.

Referring back to a network management process is hosted by the network device . As shown for illustrative purposes the network device is a server that manages access to multiple heterogeneous networks such as both WiFi and cellular networks. Alternatively the network management process may be hosted locally on another network device such as one or more edge devices . . . . . . . . . provided such hosted edge devices are communicatively coupled to each other. The location of the network management process does not matter so long as it is capable of receiving client metrics contained within report messages from edge devices and .

Upon detecting of a triggering event in response to the detected level of connectivity falls below prescribed threshold s the network device routes a management message for controlling network connectivity of a particular client device under analysis. As an illustrative example the management message may be adapted to cause aggregating device to generate a control message e.g. a blacklist message that subsequently instructs various edge devices to avoid responding to a request by the client device for establishing a connection. As an alternative embodiment the management message may be adapted to cause aggregating device to generate the control message being a whitelist message that subsequently instructs one or more of the edge devices that they are permitted to respond to such connection requests.

Herein the aggregating device is described as collecting report messages from different network devices associated with different networks and aggregates the client metrics within the report messages for uploading to the network device . Of course as shown in it is contemplated that the client device may be adapted to upload a message that includes its client metrics as well as information associated with the networks to which the client device is able to access.

As described above the collection of client metrics at multiple edge devices and assimilation of the client metrics and network metrics spanning across different heterogeneous networks has been described. This section describes steering the client device such as a session of the client device for example to the best radio access link which may occur from matching application requirements to current radio link properties. Herein according to one embodiment of the invention a network device e.g. MSP monitors connectivity levels for the client device associated with different networks. One of these connectivity levels may be based on client metrics provided by one of the edge devices of a first network to which the client device is currently connected. Another one of these connectivity levels may be based on client metrics produced from monitored signaling from the client device that are provided by one or more edge devices associated with a second network different from the first network.

Upon detecting anomalous behavior by a client device through analysis of the connectivity levels which results in a triggering event being detected the MSP operating alone or in combination with another network device influences the client device to transition from the first network to the second network. This transition may involve changing frequency bands and or activating different logic within the client device where the networks are directed to different technologies. For instance transmission from a first WiFi network to a second cellular network may require the radio to be tuned to a different frequency band increase radiation power or the like.

According to one implementation this network connectivity scheme is initiated by the MSP being a network device separate from the edge devices that is responsible for managing network connectivity. In another implementation one of the edge devices or at least an edge device associated with each type of network may be configured to manage network connectivity by the client device upon detecting anomalous behavior by the client device. The anomalous behavior may be directed in part to connection decisions by the client device that after analysis are determined to be causing reduced operability by the client device and or the particular network.

Referring now to a network device e.g. the MSP of after determining that a client device e.g. mobile network device has established a connection to a first network receives information associated with a level of connectivity to the first network blocks and . The level of connectivity to the first network may be based on a variety of parameters including one or more of connection metrics session metrics application metrics network metrics and or device metrics. Furthermore the network device receives information associated with the level of connectivity to at least a second network which may provide metrics associated with the mobile network device as monitored by one or more edge devices for the second network along with metrics associated with the second network itself block .

According to one embodiment of the invention the network device analyzes the level of connectivity to the first network to determine if a triggering event has occurred where the triggering event denotes anomalous behavior by the mobile network device block . Examples of triggering events that denote detection of anomalous behavior by the mobile network device are illustrated in . Alternatively the triggering event may be detected by determining whether the connectivity of the mobile network device is in accordance with a connection policy as described below and illustrated in .

For instance a triggering event may be detected upon analysis of level of connectivity of the client device to the first network. For instance as one example and illustrated in determining whether or not a triggering event has occurred may be based on information associated with connection metrics provided to the MSP . As an example the triggering event may be detected when the signal strength e.g. SNR RSSI etc. for the current link to the first network falls below a prescribed threshold which would denote that movement from the first network may be warranted. Alternatively the triggering event may occur upon analysis of the link characteristics such as if the amount of available airtime which is based on link speed number of retries needed and link delays falls below another prescribed threshold.

As also shown in the triggering event may be detected if the session type requires a QoS level that cannot be supported by the current link or the session is directed to an exchange of a particular data type that would be better supported by another type of network.

As further shown in the triggering event or may be directed to network metrics that identify insufficient capacity bandwidth available for the first network or an overload condition occurs where the number of client devices connected to the first network exceeds a prescribed threshold.

In another illustrative example a triggering event may be detected upon determining the application type operating on the mobile network device that is currently accessing one of the plurality of networks. For instance where the mobile network device is using an application directed to a specific functionality that normally requires a large coverage area such as a driving map application for example a triggering event may be detected if the first network is a WiFi network or another type of network with less expansive coverage area.

Referring back to if no triggering event is detected e.g. the current properties of the network connection for the client device is acceptable for current operations the network device does not interfere with the current operating state of the client device. However in the event that a triggering event has occurred the network device may influence the mobile network device to connect to another network blocks and . Such influence may be based on whether 1 the triggering event is sufficient to warrant a change in network connectivity and 2 such network connectivity is currently available to the mobile network device. Upon confirmation the network device controls one or more edge devices to influence the change in network connectivity by the mobile network device.

Referring now to an illustrative flowchart of application steering is described. Initially a determination is made as to the type s of applications running on a client device such as a mobile network device for example block . Initially the application s are communicatively coupled to the first network.

A first determination is made as to whether the application is a latency sensitive application or not block . A latency sensitive application may be a classification in which the application has strict latency requirements such as applications that are directed to real time audio and or video communications such as FaceTime .

If the detected application is latency sensitive a subsequent determination is conducted as to whether the first network namely the network utilized by the application is a member of a first set of networks block . This first set of networks is a listing of networks with low latency requirements which are better suited for such communications. For instance a cellular network may be better suited for audio communications given strict latency compliance. If the first network is a member of the first set of networks the process terminates block . However if the first network is not a member of the first set of networks the mobile network device is steered to a network of the first set of networks that is currently accessible by the mobile network device block .

If the detected application is not latency sensitive a second determination may be made as to whether the application is directed to specific functionality such as travel based application providing driving directions that requires expansive coverage for example block . If the detected application is directed to the specific functionality a subsequent determination would be whether the first network namely the network utilized by the application is a member of a second set of networks block . This second set of networks is a listing of networks with larger coverage areas which are better for such communications. For instance a cellular network may be better suited for a travel based application than an enterprise network. If the first network is a member of the second set of networks the process terminates block . However if the first network is not a member of the second set of networks the mobile network device is steered to a network of the second set of networks that is currently accessible by the mobile network device block .

Referring to an exemplary flowchart directed to another inventive aspect of the disclosure is described. The goal of the inventive aspect is that influencing of network connectivity by a client device especially a mobile network device is determined by the network not the mobile network device. This would require a connection policy to be established for a plurality of heterogeneous networks including at least two different types of networks block . Herein as a default the mobile network device establishes connectivity to a first network of the plurality of heterogeneous networks block .

Thereafter the connectivity of the mobile network device is analyzed with respect to compliance with the connection policy block . If the connectivity of the mobile network device is in compliance with the connection policy the mobile network device remains connected to the first network blocks and . However if the connectivity of the mobile network device is not in compliance with the connection policy a network device is adapted to influence the mobile network device to establish connectivity to a second network that is based on different technology than the first network blocks and .

Although not shown as another alternative embodiment the network device determines a desired operating state for a client device under analysis where the client device is to transmit information for a particular session to a first network device of a first network such as a wireless network for example. Thereafter the network device operates to detect if a triggering event has occurred based on a comparison of a desired operating state for the client device under analysis to an actual operating state for that client device under analysis. According to one embodiment the actual operating state comprises the actual received signal strength of signals transmitted between the client device and the first device while the desired received signal strength constitutes a desired received signal strength of signals transmitted between the client device and the first device. According to one embodiment of the disclosure the desired operating state e.g. desired RSSI may be preset based on a minimal RSSI or SNR needed for sustaining certain minimal bandwidth e.g. PHY speed depending on applications. Alternatively the desired operating state for the client device comprises a desired operating state for the particular session.

In response to detecting that the triggering event has occurred the network device causes the client device to initiate connectivity with the second network e.g. a cellular network and transmit information for one or more particular session s to a second network device of the second network.

It is contemplated that the client device is caused to transmit the information for the particular session to the second network device of the second network without modifying a configuration of the client device transmitting information for a second session to the first network device of the first network. It is further contemplated that the network device may cause the client device to transmit the information for the particular session to a second network device comprises reducing a performance associated with the first network for the particular session or may select for a second session one of the first network device or the second network device for the client device to transmit data corresponding to the second session.

In addition to network connectivity scheme a network device e.g. MSP may be adapted to partition access to different networks by different sets of client devices where each set of client devices includes one or more client device. According to one embodiment of the disclosure such partitioning may be based on client metrics. For example the network device may be adapted to receive client metrics from edge devices associated with different networks. From the client metrics the network device can determine total capacity and or load available for all of the networks even networks based on different technologies e.g. RF cellular etc. . The total capacity and or load may be used by the network device for allocating certain sets of client devices among the different networks.

As an illustrative example presume that an edge device for a first network provides client metrics that identify the remaining capacity for the first network is A bits per second bps while the remaining capacity for the second network is B bps. Hence the network device is able to compute that the remaining capacity for the heterogeneous networks is A B. From this the network device may partition A B bps based on a selected grouping of the client devices. Such grouping e.g. sets of client devices may be based on load e.g. number of client devices connected to each particular network and or device metrics such as device characteristics e.g. device type device manufacturer radio type etc. and or device capabilities such as transmit receive speed transport protocol security features network subscription level or the like.

As another illustrative example from the client metrics associated with each network the network device may be adapted to formulate a performance value for different configuration groups. Based on a collection of current client metrics and or heuristic data e.g. previous client metrics the performance value represents a performance level for the network. The performance value may be compared to a threshold value or a performance value for another configuration group to ascertain if the network with the particular set of client devices is operating at or above a targeted performance. The performance value may be based on one or more of the following metrics 

As an illustrative example a first performance value for a first group configuration may be determined by the network device where each of a group of client devices is provided access one or more resources via a respective selected network from a plurality of networks. Concurrently or subsequent to this determination a second performance value is determined for a second group configuration where at least one client device of the group of client devices accesses the one or more resources via a different network when configured in accordance with the second group configuration rather than when configured in accordance with the first group configuration. Based on the first performance value and the second performance value the respective network is selected for each client device of the group of client devices.

It is contemplated that the first performance value may be based on various parameters. For instance the performance values may be computed for each of the group of client devices. For instance the first performance value may be based on a group throughput value computed using respective throughput values for each client device in the group of client devices while configured in accordance with the first configuration. Alternatively the first performance value may be based on i a group connectivity value computed using respective connectivity values for each client device in the group of client devices while configured in accordance with the first configuration and or ii a group dropped packet rate that is computed using respective dropped packet rates for each client device in the group of client devices while configured in accordance with the first configuration.

In other alternatives the first performance value may be based on 1 performance values computed for each of the network devices providing the group of client devices access to the one or more resources 2 a load balance distribution metric computed using respective load values for network devices in the plurality of networks 3 a utilization metric computed using respective utilization values for network devices in the plurality of networks and or 4 both a respective performance values computed for each of the group of client devices and b performance values computed for each of the network devices providing the group of client devices access to the one or more resources.

As described herein the plurality of networks comprises a WiFi network and a cellular network where the first configuration may include a configuration of a first number of client devices from the group of client devices to access the one or more resources via the WiFi network and a second number of client devices from the group of client devices to access the one or more resources via the cellular network. Similarly the second configuration may include a configuration of a third number of client devices from the group of client devices to access the one or more resources via the WiFi network and a fourth number of client devices from the group of client devices to access the one or more resources via the cellular network. According to an embodiment of the disclosure the first number is different than the third number and the second number is different than the fourth number.

Other embodiments of the disclosure may be considered. For example one embodiment may be directed to a non transitory computer readable medium to store software that when executed by one or more hardware processors perform operations comprising 1 establishing a connection policy for a plurality of networks including at least a first network and a second network the first network being a different type of network than the second network 2 analyzing whether current connectivity of a client device to the first network is in compliance with the connection policy and 3 based on results of the analysis of the current connectivity of the client device and the connection policy influencing the client device to establish connectivity to the second network.

Furthermore in accordance with the non transitory computer readable medium described immediately above one or more of the following aspects may be present 1 the first network is a wireless network and the second network is a cellular network 2 the connection policy includes a signal strength threshold where the client device is influenced to establish connectivity to the second network if a signal strength for signaling received by an edge network device from the client device falls below the signal strength threshold for a prescribed number of measurements 3 the connection policy applies a capacity threshold to at least the first network in order to influence the client device to establish connectivity to the second network if the capacity threshold has been exceeded and 4 the software being executed by the one or more hardware processors to determine prior to analyzing whether the current connectivity of the client device to the first network is in compliance with the connection policy whether a signal strength for signaling to an associated edge network device falls below a signal strength threshold.

Lastly it is noted that the functionality associated with the non transitory computer readable medium described above may be captured by a network device that includes at least one device including a hardware processor and the system configured to perform operations identical to the operations described for the computer readable medium.

This invention may be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

