---

title: Method of transferring carbon conductive film
abstract: Disclosed is a method of transferring a carbon conductive film, including: providing a first substrate, and forming an inorganic oxide layer on a surface of the first substrate, wherein the inorganic oxide layer has a total surface energy of 30 mJ/mto 75 mJ/m, and a dispersive surface energy to the total surface energy ratio of 0.4 to 0.8. A carbon dispersion is coated on the inorganic oxide layer, and then dried to form a carbon conductive film on the inorganic oxide layer. The carbon conductive film is dipped into a solvent to separate the carbon conductive film and the inorganic oxide layer. The separated carbon conductive film is attached to a second substrate, thereby transferring the carbon conductive film onto the second substrate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09067393&OS=09067393&RS=09067393
owner: INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
number: 09067393
owner_city: Hsinchu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20130312
---
The present application is based on and claims priority from Taiwan Application Serial Number 101139868 filed on Oct. 29 2012 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The technical field relates to a carbon conductive film and in particular to a method for transferring it from one substrate to another substrate.

Flat displays touch panels photovoltaics and next generation flexible electronics are developed over time such that a market of transparent conductive films e.g. ITO is correspondingly grown. However the ITO would be partially replaced by other materials due to its high cost limited sources and low flexibility. Carbon nanotube CNT has properties such as high aspect ratio high electrical conductivity excellent mechanical strength and chemical resistance thereby having the potential for application in transparent conductive film. Compared to the ITO transparent conductive film composed of CNT has advantages such as better flexibility climate resistance being easier to manufacture and a natural color.

Carbon nanotube conductive film is generally formed by spray coating slot die coating micro gravure coating dip coating spin coating vacuum filtration or layer by layer assembly. However only slot die coating micro gravure coating and spray coating are capable of mass production. The mainstream of preparing the carbon nanotube dispersion is aqueous solution system. The carbon nanotube of a relatively high concentration is dispersed in water by a dispersant and dispersants such as sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate SDBS or sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS have a higher dispersibility. If an organic solvent such as N methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP chloroform dichloromethane or the likes is selected to directly disperse the carbon nanotube the concentration of carbon nanotube in the dispersion is too low to form the carbon nanotube conductive film by the slot die coating or the micro gravure coating. In addition the organic solvent may chemically etch some polymer substrate and the organic solvent will encounter environmental safety problems.

While coating the carbon nanotube as a film matching the properties of dispersion liquid and the substrate is critical. The surface tension of the carbon nanotube dispersion is limited to the solvent and dispersant systems. Therefore it is only with difficulty that the carbon nanotube conductive film is formed on a substrate having a relatively low surface energy such as polymethylmethacrylate PMMA polypropylene PP polyethylene PE polydimethylsiloxane PDMS polytetrafluoroethene PTFE and the like by coating. In addition until now it has only been possible to form a conductive film of a carbon nano material on a non planar substrate by spray coating and the conductive film still encounters low coating uniformity and a low utility of material.

In comparison of proposed transfer processes of CNT conductive films transfer technique based on vacuum filtration processes encounters limitations on mass production and preparation of large area CNT films. Properties of transferred CNT conductive films prepared by dissolving filters and adhesion layer are possibly degraded due to incomplete removal of polymeric materials. In addition when multiple step transfer processes are carried out with PDMS stamps completeness and uniformity of transferred CNT film is hard to control precisely. Accordingly a novel method of forming a carbon conductive film onto various substrates is called for.

One embodiment of the disclosure provides a method for transferring a carbon conductive film comprising providing a first substrate forming an inorganic oxide layer on a surface of the first substrate wherein the inorganic oxide layer has a total surface energy of 30 mJ mto 75 mJ m and a dispersive surface energy to the total surface energy ratio of 0.4 to 0.8 coating a carbon dispersion on the inorganic oxide layer drying the carbon dispersion to form a carbon conductive film on the inorganic oxide layer dipping the carbon conductive film into a solvent to separate the carbon conductive film and the inorganic oxide layer and attaching the separated carbon conductive film to a second substrate thereby transferring the carbon conductive film onto the second substrate.

A detailed description is given in the following embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings.

In the following detailed description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed embodiments. It will be apparent however that one or more embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are schematically shown in order to simplify the drawing.

As shown in an inorganic oxide layer was formed on the surface of a first substrate . The first substrate is not limited to a specific material. Any material which is compatible with the inorganic oxide layer thereon and tolerates the subsequent processes will be suitable for the first substrate . In one embodiment the inorganic oxide layer is formed by a wet process. For example a dispersion of inorganic oxide particles is coated on the first substrate and then dried wherein the inorganic oxide particles are sol in solvent phase. The surface energy of the inorganic oxide layer is determined by types and amounts of surface functionalities surface roughness and structure of the inorganic oxide layer. The polarity of inorganic oxide sols is easily tuned by surface modification using grafting of organic compounds and hydrolysis condensation reactions of silane based agents. Functional groups with higher polarities result in relative higher total surface energy and a lower dispersive surface energy to total surface energy ratio for the oxide layers. Functional groups with lower polarity contribute to relative lower total surface energy and a higher dispersive surface energy to total surface energy ratio. Surface modification technique of oxides is well known. The typical modification agents include amino silane epoxide silane acrylate silane alkyl silane benzyl silane fluoro silane with different molecule structures. In this embodiment the particle size of inorganic oxides is from 2 nm to 200 nm. In another embodiment the particle size of inorganic oxides is from 4 nm to 60 nm. Because inorganic oxide particles having an overly large size will increase the surface roughness of the inorganic oxide layer it is difficult that the carbon nano material is coated to form a film with a uniform thickness and carbon nano material could partially jammed during the transfer process. Inorganic oxide particles having an overly small size typically by a dry process will form a smoother surface such that the interaction of carbon nano materials and inorganic oxide layer increases due to increase of contact area and the solvent is more difficult to penetrate into the gap for separation of the carbon conductive film. In another embodiment the inorganic oxide layer is formed by a dry process such as evaporation deposition sputtering deposition chemical vapor deposition or physical vapor deposition. The inorganic oxide layer can be composed of silicon oxide silica zirconium oxide zirconia aluminum oxide alumina tin oxide titanium oxide titania zinc oxide or combinations thereof. Whatever process is selected the inorganic oxide layer has a total surface energy of 30 mJ mto 75 mJ m and a dispersive surface energy to total surface energy ratio of 0.4 to 0.8. In another embodiment a total surface energy is from 35 mJ mto 65 mJ m and a dispersive surface energy to total surface energy ratio is form 0.45 to 0.75. The definition of the total surface energy and the dispersive surface energy can be found in Journal of Achievements in Materials and Manufacturing Engineering 24 137 145 2007 and solid surface energy can be calculated by Owens Wendt geometric average method. If the inorganic oxide layer has an overly low total surface energy the carbon conductive film cannot be formed thereon. If the inorganic oxide layer has an overly low dispersive surface energy to total surface energy ratio also an overly low dispersive surface energy the carbon conductive film formed on the inorganic oxide layer cannot be separated from the inorganic oxide layer by dipping it into a solvent. If the inorganic oxide layer has an overly high dispersive surface energy to total surface energy ratio also an overly high dispersive surface energy the carbon conductive film formed on the inorganic oxide layer cannot be separated from the inorganic oxide layer by dipping it into a solvent. In one embodiment the thickness of inorganic oxide layers is from 30 nm to 500 nm due to considerations of coating and flexibility of the entire film.

As shown in the carbon dispersion is coated on the inorganic oxide layer and then dried to form a carbon conductive film on the inorganic oxide layer . The carbon dispersion may include a carbon material with spgraphitic structure domain such as carbon nanotube graphene graphene oxide chemically reduced graphene oxide graphene nanoribbon or combinations thereof. In one embodiment the carbon dispersion has a carbon material concentration of 0.001 wt to 2.0 wt . In another embodiment the carbon dispersion has a carbon material concentration of 0.01 wt to 0.5 wt . If a carbon dispersion has an overly high carbon material concentration it will be difficult to form a well dispersed carbon dispersion. If a carbon dispersion has an overly low carbon material concentration the carbon conductive film with a proper thickness or electrical conductivity will be formed with multiple coatings or one thick wet coating. However it is difficult to obtain a carbon conductive film having uniform thickness from drying the thick wet film due to irregular drying phenomena. The carbon dispersion can be coated on the inorganic oxide layer by wire bar coating spray coating slot die coating micro gravure coating dip coating spin coating or other common coating methods. In one embodiment the carbon dispersion is dried at a temperature of 30 C. to 180 C. for a period of 10 seconds to 2 hours. In another embodiment the carbon dispersion is dried at a temperature of 60 C. to 140 C. for a period of 30 seconds to 1 hour. If a carbon dispersion is dried at an overly low temperature and or for an overly short period the carbon dispersion cannot be dried to form the compact carbon conductive film and the carbon conductive film will be broken into several pieces as dipping into a solvent. If a carbon dispersion is dried at an overly high temperature and or for an overly long period the carbon conductive film and the inorganic oxide layer will have an overly large interaction therebetween such that the carbon conductive film formed on the inorganic oxide layer cannot be separated from the inorganic oxide layer by dipping it into a solvent.

As shown in a multi layered structure of the first substrate the inorganic oxide layer and the carbon conductive film are dipped into a solvent to separate the carbon conductive film and the inorganic oxide layer . The carbon conductive film is then floated on the interface of air and solvent. The solvent does not participate in dissolution or reactions the inorganic oxide layer. In one embodiment the solvent can be water ethylene glycol dimethyl sulfoxide propylene carbonate N N dimethylformamide ethanol isopropanol 1 propanol or other solvents and mixtures with higher surface tension. In another embodiment the solvent is water due to its high surface tension. Surfactants can be added to improve the penetration capability of solvent into the carbon conductive film and the inorganic oxide layer.

As shown in the second substrate is then disposed on the carbon conductive film to attach the second substrate and the carbon conductive film thereby completing the transfer of the carbon conductive film . The attachment of the second substrate can be from either side of the carbon conductive film . In one embodiment the attachment of the second substrate is preceded from the top side. A compact attachment of carbon conductive film can be achieved due to no interference of solvent in between. In one embodiment the second substrate can be glass metal plastics synthetic resin such as polyethyleneterephthalate polycarbonate polypropylene polyethylene polydimethylsiloxane polytetrafluoroethylene polyvinylidene difluoride polyimide poly ethylene 2 6 naphthalate or polyethersulfone. In one embodiment the second substrate can be a non planar substrate such as a curved substrate. Note that the carbon nanotube conductive film formed on the non planar second substrate has a uniform thickness.

In another embodiment an adhesive layer is further applied on a surface of the carbon conductive film . As shown in the carbon conductive film is disposed between the second substrate and the adhesive layer . Although the adhesive layer in is formed on the entire surface of the carbon conductive film the adhesive layer can be formed on a partial surface e.g. dispensing of the carbon conductive film if necessary. The adhesive layer can be a photo curable glue such as LOCA 2175 or EAS 1616 commercially available from 3M or UV SIL 400 commercially available from Dow Corning a thermal curable glue like aqueous glue such as RZ 570 commercially available from HANK COMPANY LTD. Taiwan moisture curable glue such as silicone 9176L commercially available from Dow Corning a pressure sensitive glue such as OCA 8142 or OCA 8262 commercially available from 3M or the likes.

As shown in a third substrate is attached to the adhesive layer by thermal pressing vacuum laminating or the likes. The adhesive layer is then cured by thermal curing photo curing moisture curing or pressure curing and the curing type is determined by the adhesive layer type. The second substrate is removed at last thereby transferring the carbon conductive film onto the third substrate . Similar to the second substrate the third substrate can be a non planar substrate such as a curved substrate. Note that the carbon nanotube conductive film formed on the non planar third substrate has a uniform thickness.

The transferring process can be further applied to a continuous process such as a roll to roll process or the likes to meet the requirement of mass production. It should be understood that the inorganic oxide layer formed on the first substrate can be used repeatedly. Compared to a conventional process that forms a carbon conductive film on a substrate and then etches out the substrate to obtain the carbon conductive film the easier method of the disclosure costs less time.

Below exemplary embodiments will be described in detail with reference to accompanying drawings so as to be easily realized by a person having ordinary knowledge in the art. The inventive concept may be embodied in various forms without being limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein. Descriptions of well known parts are omitted for clarity and like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.

The carbon nanotube in examples of the disclosure was a purified single walled carbon nanotube SWNT which was prepared by floated catalytic chemical vapor deposition in TW patent No. I306834. 0.1 parts by weight of the purified SWNT 0.2 parts by weight of sodium dedocylbenzene and 100.0 parts by weight of de ionized water were mixed and then oscillated by a supersonic oscillator Sonicator 3000 commercially available from Misonix to obtain an SWNT dispersion.

Surface energy of the substrate can be calculated by the contact angle of the substrate between the pure water diiodomethane and the substrate surface through the Owens Wendt geometric average method as shown in Formula 1. 1 cos 2 square root over 2 square root over Formula 1 

The surface energy of the substrate is composed of a polar surface energy and a dispersive surface energy . The pure water had a dispersive surface energy of 21.8 ml mand a polar surface energy of 51.0 mJ m respectively. The diiodomethane had a dispersive surface energy of 48.5 mJ mand a polar surface energy of 2.3 mJ m respectively.

Sheet resistance of the conductive carbon films was measured by a four point resistance meter LORESTA GP commercially available from Mitsubishi Chemical Co. .

1.0 g of silica sol in solvent phase IPA ST solid content of 30 wt to 31 wt particle size of 10 nm to 15 nm solvent being isopropyl alcohol and commercially available from Nissan Chemical was added to 14.0 g of ethanol to obtain a silica dispersion with a solid content of about 2.0 wt . A PET film A4300 commercially available from Toyobo with a thickness of 188 m was selected as a first substrate. The silica dispersion was coated on the first substrate by a wire bar RDS coating rod 4 and a coater ZA2300 commercially available from ZEHNTNER and then dried at 100 C. in a circulator oven to form a silica layer on the first substrate. The thickness of the silica layer was about 150 nm. The contact angles of the water diiodomethane and the silica layer were measured and the surface energy of the silica layer was calculated as tabulated in Table 1.

0.5 g of the SWNT dispersion was coated onto the silica layer overlying the PET film by a wire bar RDS coating rod 3 and then dried in a circulator oven to form a carbon nanotube conductive film. The drying factors such as temperature and period were tabulated in Table 2. The sheet resistances of the carbon nanotube conductive films before the separation process original sheet resistance were also tabulated in Table 2.

A vessel with a sectional area larger than the carbon nanotube conductive film was filled with de ionized water. The substrate having a surface coated with the carbon nanotube conductive film was slowly dipped into the de ionized water in the vessel. The carbon nanotube conductive films dried by the temperature of 60 C. to 140 C. were completely separated from the silica layer overlying the substrate to float on the de ionized water due to the surface tension of the water as shown in Table 2. As proven in experiments the carbon nanotube conductive films dried by an overly high temperature e.g. 160 C. to 200 C. could not be separated from the silica layer.

Finally another PET film A4300 commercially available from Toyobo with a thickness of 188 m was selected as a second substrate. The carbon nanotube conductive film floated on the de ionized water was attached to the second substrate thereby completing a transfer of the carbon nanotube film. For ensuring the carbon nanotube conductive film was completely separated from the silica layer or not the sheet resistance of the first substrate with the silica layer thereon dipped in the vessel sheet resistance after separation was measured. As shown in Table 2 the carbon nanotube conductive films dried by the temperature of 60 C. to 140 C. were completely separated from the silica layer overlying the substrate such that the first substrates after separation had a high sheet resistance. On the other hand the carbon nanotube conductive films dried by an overly high temperature e.g. higher than 140 C. or an overly low temperature e.g. lower than 60 C. could not be separated from the silica layer such that the first substrates after separation still had the carbon nanotube conductive film thereon with a low sheet resistance.

Example 2 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Example 2 was the silica sol in solvent phase being replaced by another silica sol in solvent phase IPA ST L solid content of 30 wt to 31 wt particle size of 40 nm to 60 nm solvent being isopropyl alcohol and commercially available from Nissan Chemical . In Example 2 the substrate type and the processes for coating the silica sol and the SWNT dispersion by the wire bond were similar to that of Example 1. The contact angles of the water diiodomethane and the silica layer were measured and the surface energy of the silica layer was calculated as tabulated in Table 1. The sheet resistances of the carbon nanotube conductive film before the separation process original sheet resistance was 430 as tabulated in Table 3. The substrate having a surface coated with the carbon nanotube conductive film was slowly dipped into the de ionized water in the vessel and the separation appearance thereof was tabulated in Table 3. The sheet resistance of the first substrate with the silica layer thereon dipped in the vessel sheet resistance after separation was also measured and tabulated in Table 3.

Example 3 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Example 3 was the silica sol in solvent phase being replaced by another silica sol in solvent phase MEK ST solid content of 30 wt to 31 wt particle size of 10 nm to 15 nm solvent being methyl ethyl ketone and commercially available from Nissan Chemical . In Example 3 the substrate type and the processes for coating the silica sol and the SWNT dispersion by the wire bond were similar to that of Example 1. The contact angles of the water diiodomethane and the silica layer were measured and the surface energy of the silica layer was calculated as tabulated in Table 1. The sheet resistances of the carbon nanotube conductive film before the separation process original sheet resistance was 420 as tabulated in Table 3. The substrate having a surface coated with the carbon nanotube conductive film was slowly dipped into the de ionized water in the vessel and the separation appearance thereof was tabulated in Table 3. The sheet resistance of the first substrate with the silica layer thereon dipped in the vessel sheet resistance after separation was also measured and tabulated in Table 3.

Example 4 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Example 4 was the silica sol in solvent phase being replaced by another silica sol in solvent phase MEK AC 2101 solid content of 30 wt to 31 wt particle size of 10 nm to 15 nm solvent being methyl ethyl ketone and commercially available from Nissan Chemical . In Example 4 the substrate type and the processes for coating the silica sol and the SWNT dispersion by the wire bond were similar to that of Example 1. The contact angles of the water diiodomethane and the silica layer were measured and the surface energy of the silica layer was calculated as tabulated in Table 1. The sheet resistances of the carbon nanotube conductive film before the separation process original sheet resistance was 425 as tabulated in Table 3. The substrate having a surface coated with the carbon nanotube conductive film was slowly dipped into the de ionized water in the vessel and the separation appearance thereof was tabulated in Table 3. The sheet resistance of the first substrate with the silica layer thereon dipped in the vessel sheet resistance after separation was also measured and tabulated in Table 3.

Example 5 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Example 5 was the silica sol in solvent phase being replaced by a zirconia sol in solvent phase OZ S30K solid content of 30 wt particle size of 10 nm solvent being methyl ethyl ketone and commercially available from Nissan Chemical . In Example 5 the substrate type and the processes for coating the zirconia sol and the SWNT dispersion by the wire bond were similar to that of Example 1. The contact angles of the water diiodomethane and the zirconia layer were measured and the surface energy of the zirconia layer was calculated as tabulated in Table 1. The sheet resistances of the carbon nanotube conductive film before the separation process original sheet resistance was 430 as tabulated in Table 3. The substrate having a surface coated with the carbon nanotube conductive film was slowly dipped into the de ionized water in the vessel and the separation appearance thereof was tabulated in Table 3. The sheet resistance of the first substrate with the zirconia layer thereon dipped in the vessel sheet resistance after separation was also measured and tabulated in Table 3.

Example 6 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Example 6 was the silica sol in solvent phase being replaced by a zirconia sol in aqueous phase 30B solid content of 30 wt particle size of 10 nm to 20 nm solvent being water and commercially available from Nissan Chemical . In Example 6 the substrate type and the processes for coating the zirconia sol and the SWNT dispersion by the wire bond were similar to that of Example 1. The contact angles of the water diiodomethane and the zirconia layer were measured and the surface energy of the zirconia layer was calculated as tabulated in Table 1. The sheet resistances of the carbon nanotube conductive film before the separation process original sheet resistance was 550 as tabulated in Table 3. The substrate having a surface coated with the carbon nanotube conductive film was slowly dipped into the de ionized water in the vessel and the separation appearance thereof was tabulated in Table 3. The sheet resistance of the first substrate with the zirconia layer thereon dipped in the vessel sheet resistance after separation was also measured and tabulated in Table 3.

Comparative Example 1 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Comparative Example 1 was the SWNT dispersion being directly coated on the PET film and then dried at different temperatures. In other words the process of coating the silica sol in solvent phase by the wire bond was omitted in Comparative Example 1. In Comparative Example 1 the substrate type and the process for coating the SWNT dispersion by the wire bond were similar to that of Example 1. The contact angles of the water diiodomethane and the PET film were measured and the surface energy of the PET film was calculated as tabulated in Table 1. The sheet resistances of the carbon nanotube conductive film before the separation process original sheet resistance was 1100 as tabulated in Table 3. The substrate having a surface coated with the carbon nanotube conductive film was slowly dipped into the de ionized water in the vessel and no separation occurred as shown in Table 3. The sheet resistance of the first substrate dipped in the vessel sheet resistance after separation was also measured and tabulated in Table 3. As seen in Comparative Example 1 the carbon nanotube conductive film directly formed on the first substrate could not be separated from the first substrate by dipping it into a solvent. As such the carbon nanotube conductive film fixed on the first substrate could not be transferred to another substrate.

Comparative Example 2 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Comparative Example 2 was the silica sol in solvent phase being replaced by a silica sol in aqueous phase ST N solid content of 20 wt particle size of 10 nm to 15 nm solvent being water and commercially available from Nissan Chemical . In Comparative Example 2 the substrate type and the processes for coating the silica sol and the SWNT dispersion by the wire bond were similar to that of Example 1. The contact angles of the water diiodomethane and the silica layer were measured and the surface energy of the silica layer was calculated as tabulated in Table 1. The sheet resistances of the carbon nanotube conductive film before the separation process original sheet resistance was 430 as tabulated in Table 3. The substrate having a surface coated with the carbon nanotube conductive film was slowly dipped into the de ionized water in the vessel and no separation occurred as shown in Table 3. The sheet resistance of the first substrate dipped in the vessel sheet resistance after separation was also measured and tabulated in Table 3. As seen in Comparative Example 2 if the inorganic oxide layer had an overly low dispersive surface energy to total surface energy ratio 0.37 the carbon nanotube conductive film formed on the inorganic oxide layer could not be separated from the inorganic oxide layer by dipping it into a solvent. As such the carbon nanotube conductive film fixed on the first substrate could not be transferred to another substrate.

Comparative Example 2 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Comparative Example 2 was the silica sol in solvent phase being replaced by another silica sol in solvent phase DMAc ST solid content of 30 wt particle size of 10 nm to 15 nm solvent being dimethylacetamide and commercially available from Nissan Chemical . In Comparative Example 3 the substrate type and the processes for coating the silica sol and the SWNT dispersion by the wire bond were similar to that of Example 1. The contact angles of the water diiodomethane and the silica layer were measured and the surface energy of the silica layer was calculated as tabulated in Table 1. The sheet resistances of the carbon nanotube conductive film before the separation process original sheet resistance was 650 as tabulated in Table 3. The substrate having a surface coated with the carbon nanotube conductive film was slowly dipped into the de ionized water in the vessel and no separation occurred as shown in Table 3. The sheet resistance of the first substrate dipped in the vessel sheet resistance after separation was also measured and tabulated in Table 3. As seen in Comparative Example 3 if the inorganic oxide layer had an overly high dispersive surface energy to total surface energy ratio 0.83 the carbon nanotube conductive film formed on the inorganic oxide layer could not be separated from the inorganic oxide layer by dipping it into a solvent. As such the carbon nanotube conductive film fixed on the first substrate could not be transferred to another substrate.

Example 7 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Example 7 was the replacement of the PET film with a polycarbonate plate as the second substrate. However the carbon nanotube conductive film separated from the first substrate was still able to attach onto the second substrate thereby completing the transfer of the carbon nanotube conductive film.

Example 8 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Example 8 was the replacement of the PET film with a polyethylene film in the second substrate. However the carbon nanotube conductive film separated from the first substrate was still able to attach onto the second substrate thereby completing the transfer of the carbon nanotube conductive film.

Example 9 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Example 9 was the replacement of the PET film with a polymethylmethacrylate plate as the second substrate. However the carbon nanotube conductive film separated from the first substrate was still able to attach onto the second substrate thereby completing the transfer of the carbon nanotube conductive film.

Example 10 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Example 10 was the replacement of the PET film with a round glass bottle as the second substrate. However the carbon nanotube conductive film separated from the first substrate was still able to attach onto the second substrate thereby completing the transfer of the carbon nanotube conductive film.

Example 11 was similar to Example 1 and the difference in Example 11 was the replacement of the PET film with a fluorosilicone release film FFR 1602 commercially available from Chisin Enterprise Ltd. CO. Taiwan as the second substrate. However the carbon nanotube conductive film separated from the first substrate was still able to attach onto the second substrate thereby completing the first transfer of the carbon nanotube conductive film from the first substrate to the second substrate. A UV glue LOCA 2175 commercially available from 3M was then coated on a surface of the carbon nanotube conductive film attached on the second substrate and then dried at 80 C. to remove solvent in the UV glue. A third substrate polycarbonate plate was attached to the UV glue and then exposed by a UV exposure machine to cure the UV glue. The second substrate the fluorosilicone release film was then torn off to complete the second transfer of the carbon nanotube conductive film from the second substrate to the third substrate.

Example 12 was similar to Example 11 and the difference in Example 12 was the replacement of the UV glue with an aqueous glue RE 570 commercially available from HANK COMPANY LTD. Taiwan as the adhesive layer. After the aqueous glue was coated on a surface of the carbon nanotube conductive film attached to the second substrate a third substrate polycarbonate plate was attached to the aqueous glue and the aqueous glue was then dried at 100 C. to be cured. The second substrate the fluorosilicone release film was then torn off to complete the second transfer of the carbon nanotube conductive film from the second substrate to the third substrate.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the disclosed methods and materials. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with the true scope of the disclosure being indicated by the following claims and their equivalents.

