---

title: Generating member profile recommendations based on connection timing data in a social graph
abstract: Systems and methods for generating recommendations based on data derived from a social network are described. For example, a first indirect connection of a source member profile may be identified. The first indirect connection is a member profile connected to the source member through a first connection path. A second indirect connection of the source member profile is also identified. The second indirect connection is a member profile connected to the source member through a second connection path. A selection is made between the first indirect connection and the second indirect connection based on a comparison of timing scores calculated for the indirect connections. The selected indirect connection is then surfaced to a client device associated with the source member profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361006&OS=09361006&RS=09361006
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09361006
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131230
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Appl. No. 61 891 787 filed Oct. 16 2013 entitled GENERATING CONNECTION RECOMMENDATIONS BASED ON RECENT CONNECTIONS AND CONNECTIONS OF CLOSE CONNECTIONS all of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purpose.

The present disclosure generally relates to information retrieval and processing. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods systems and computer program products for generating recommendations based on data derived from a social graph of a social network service.

Online social network services provide members with a mechanism for defining and memorializing in a digital format representations of themselves e.g. member profiles and their relationships with other people. This digital representation of relationships between members is frequently referred to as a social graph. Many social network services utilize a social graph to facilitate electronic communications and the sharing of information between its users or members. For instance the relationship between two members of a social network service as defined in the social graph of the social network service may determine the access and sharing privileges that exist between the two members. As such the social graph in use by a social network service may determine the manner in which two members of the social network service can interact with one another via the various communication and sharing mechanisms supported by the social network service.

Some social network services aim to enable friends and family to communicate and share with one another while others are specifically directed to business users with a goal of facilitating the establishment of professional networks and the sharing of business information. For purposes of the present disclosure the terms social network and social network service are used in a broad sense and are meant to encompass services aimed at connecting friends and family often referred to simply as social networks as well as services that are specifically directed to enabling business people to connect and share business information also commonly referred to as social networks but sometimes referred to as business networks or professional networks .

With many social network services members are prompted to provide a variety of personal information which may be displayed in a member s personal web page. Such information is commonly referred to as personal profile information or simply profile information and when shown collectively it is commonly referred to as a member s profile. For example with some of the many social network services in use today the personal information that is commonly requested and displayed as part of a member s profile includes a member s age e.g. birth date gender contact information home town address the name of the member s spouse and or family members a photograph of the member interests and so forth. With certain social network services such as some business network services a member s personal information may include information commonly included in a professional resume or curriculum vitae such as information about a person s education employment history job skills professional organizations and so forth.

Some traditional social network services may behave as a searchable directory of people. In such systems a user interface UI may be provided to a member to allow that member to search for other members of the social network to connect. For example the member may use the UI to enter key terms or other properties in which to search a population of member profiles. Based on the search result the member may search through the member profiles matching the search criteria to identify member profiles that are of interest. Thus traditional systems may rely on knowledge and actions from the searching member to identify member profiles that are of interest.

The present disclosure describes among other things methods systems and computer program products which individually provide functionality for generating recommendations based on data derived from a social graph of a social network service. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without all of the specific details.

Example embodiments may include systems and methods to generate recommendations based on data derived from social graph data. One type of recommendation that may be generated by example embodiments is a connection recommendation. A connection recommendation may be a recommendation that attempts to solve a link prediction problem by using node e.g. a member profile and edge e.g. member connections features in the social graph to predict whether an invitation will occur between two nodes that are not directly connected. One type of feature of the social graph that may be used by example embodiments is connection timing data that specifies when member connections between member profiles are formed.

Accordingly an example embodiment may relate to methods systems and machine readable medium for generating a recommendation based on connection timing data of a member connection in a social graph. That is some embodiments may generate for a source member profile a member profile recommendation of an indirect connection e.g. second degree connections third degree connections and so forth of the source member profile based on timing data related to member connections in a social graph of the source member profile. To generate such member profile recommendations a recommendation engine may for example identify a first indirect connection of a source member profile. The first indirect connection may be a member profile connected to the source member profile through a first connection path that includes member connections between the source member profile a first direct connection and the first indirect connection.

The recommendation engine may then in some embodiments identify a second indirect connection of the source member profile. The second indirect connection may be a member profile connected to the source member profile through a second connection path that includes member connections between the source member profile a second direct connection and the second indirect connection.

The recommendation engine may then select between the first indirect connection and the second indirect connection based on a comparison of a timing score calculated for the first indirect connection and a timing score calculate for the second indirect connection.

The indirect connection selected by the recommendation engine may then be used for a number of purposes depending on embodiment. For example in some embodiments a presentation engine may then surface the selected indirect connection to the source member profile as a connection recommendation. The connection recommendation may be configured to cause a client device operated by the source member to display information from the member profile of the selected indirect connection e.g. name title profile image and the like . The connection recommendation may also be configured to cause the client device to display an interface element that if activated by the source member causes the social network service to form a direct connection between the source member and the selected indirect connection.

Example embodiments may provide many practical applications. For example some systems and methods may leverage information associated with member connections between members of a social network service in order to provide targeted actionable information to the members in order to encourage and or prompt the members to seek additional connections within the social network service encourage outside users to join the social network service and other benefits.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without all of the specific details.

Other advantages and aspects of the inventive subject matter will be readily apparent from the description of the figures that follows.

As shown in a front end layer of the social network system includes a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices such as a source member device over a network and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The source member device may be any suitable computing device such as a personal computer laptop cellular phone smart phone computing tablet and the like executing conventional web browser applications or applications that have been developed for a specific platform e.g. operating system computer system or some combination thereof .

The network may be any communications network utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks and so on.

The application logic layer of the social network system includes various application server modules which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various user interfaces e.g. web pages with data retrieved from various data sources in the data layer. With some embodiments individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various services and features of the social network service. For instance the ability to generate connection recommendations for a source member may be service or services implemented in independent application server modules . Similarly a variety of other applications or services that are made available to members of the social network service will be embodied in their own application server modules . For example with some embodiments the social network system includes modules that may individually or in combination provide member profile recommendations such as a recommendation engine and a presentation engine . The recommendation engine may be a computer implemented module configured to generate member profile recommendations. Example embodiments may use a variety of information to generate the member profile recommendations such as data derived from member connections in a social graph.

The presentation engine may be a computer implemented module configured to generate user interface elements for interacting with the member profile recommendations. For instance the presentation engine may generate data and logic that when executed on by one or more processors causes a client device to display a user interface that depicts the member profile recommendation. In some cases the presentation engine may use the member profile recommendation to generate user interface elements that may cause the social network service to create a member connection or initiate the process for forming a member connection between the source member profile and the member profile represented by the member profile recommendation.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases such as a database for storing profile data. Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number .

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A member connection or simply connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. It is to be appreciated that members may connect with entities other than member profiles such as companies groups or any other suitable cohort. The various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities represented by date stored in the database are stored and maintained within the social graph shown in with reference number .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content e.g. profiles viewed links selected messages sent etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database with reference number . One type of behavior data that may be stored in database is member activity between a member having one member profile and another member having another member profile. As described above examples of member activities include activities where one member visits a profile page of a member messages the member saves the member in a contact list introduces the member to another member profile.

Example embodiments may use workflows e.g. Hadoop workflows to implement some portions of the recommendation engine . These workflows may execute feature extraction tasks signals such as the recency of a member connection company and school overlap geographical distance similar ages and many others followed by a model application step. The resulting data model of these workflows may be a key value store where the key is a member profile identifier and the value is a list of member id timing score pairs.

As discussed above the recommendation engine may be configured to process data from a social graph to generate member profile recommendations. Accordingly a social graph is now discussed in greater detail. is a data diagram illustrating an example of a social graph that includes member profiles A F connected to each other through member connections A E according to an example embodiment.

The member profiles A F commonly referred to as nodes of the social graph may each represent a member profile of a user of the social network service. Consistent with some embodiments the member profiles A F may be created and stored in the database of when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service and provides some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on.

The member connections A E may be data or logic that represents a member connection between two member profiles. By way of example and not limitation a member connection may represent a member profile accepting a connection request or invite from another member profile a member profile sending a member connection request or invite to another member a member importing information from an address book or other database or online location that includes information identifying users or people that are associated with the member a member following another member a member viewing the member profile or another member or viewing information identifying potential connections such as potential connections inferred and or suggested to the member by the social network service and so on. In some embodiments a member connection can be unidirectional e.g. formed by following or subscribing or bidirectional e.g. formed by connecting or friending . It is also not a limitation of this description that two member connections who are deemed connections for the purposes of this disclosure are not necessarily connected in real life but that can be the case.

With respect to a particular member profile a member connection may be a direct member connection or an indirect member connection. When a member connection of a social graph connects two member profiles those two member profiles may be referred to as a first degree connections and the member connection between the two members may be referred to as a first degree member connection. To illustrate the member profile A is first degree connections with member profiles B and D because the member profile A is connected to member profile B via the member connection C and the member profile A is connected to member profile D via the member connection B.

In comparison to a direct connection an indirect connection is where two member profiles lack a first degree member connection but a path between the two member profiles exists in the social graph. The number of edges e.g. member connections in a minimum path that connects a member profile to another profile is considered the degree of the connection between the member profiles. For example shows that the member profiles C and F are second degree connections to the member profile A because the minimum path from A to C includes two member connections C and E and the minimum path from A to F also includes two member connections C and D . For the same reason it should be appreciated that member profile E is also a second degree connection. The limit on the number of degrees of separation for member connections that a member profile is allowed is typically dictated by the restrictions and policies implemented by the social networking service.

Thus a social graph e.g. the member profiles and connection activities thereof may be a data structure that illustrates how a member profile e.g. the source member profile A is connected to other member profiles of the social network service.

Some embodiments of the social graph may include data in addition to the data representing connection between member profiles as shown in . For example is a data diagram illustrating timing data that may be included in the social graph according to an example embodiment. shows that the social graph may include connection time data A E that is linked to the member connections A E. Connection time data as used herein may include any suitable data that represents a relative or absolute time in which an activity forming the member connection is performed. As described above a member connection may represent an event or activity that is associated with one member connecting with and or attempting to connect with another member a member viewing or accessing information indicating potential connections e.g. people you may know information among other things.

With continued reference to the member connections A E each have connection time data e.g. connection time data A E that indicate when the corresponding member connection was formed or otherwise detected within the social network service. For example the member profile A and the member profile B formed the member connection C 5 Days ago and the member profile A and the member profile D formed the member connection C 1 Year ago. Thus the member profile B is a more recent connection of member profile A than member profile D. The connection time data A E may be a value stored in each a field of the data structure representing the member connection. For example a member connection data structure may include among other things two fields containing the member profiles being connected and a time stamp field to indicate when the two members formed the member connection. Alternatively or additionally the connection time data A E may be a data structure separate from the data structure of the member connections A E. For example the recommendation engine may maintain a data structure that maps an identifier assigned to a member connection to a value representing a connection time data.

It is to be appreciated that although illustrates connection time data relative to a current time other embodiments may utilize absolute time data e.g. Sep. 15 2013 while other embodiments may segment connection time data in time buckets e.g. Within the last day Within the last week Within the last thirty days and so forth .

As described herein the recommendation engine may perform various methods when generating member profile recommendations based on connection time data derived from a social graph. is a flow diagram illustrating an example method for generating member profile recommendations based on connection time data derived from a social graph consistent with some embodiments. The method may be performed by the recommendation engine and presentation engine and accordingly is described herein merely by way of reference thereto. However it will be appreciated that the method may be performed on any suitable hardware. The method may also be performed by operating on the social graph shown in and accordingly is described herein merely by way of reference thereto. However it will be appreciated that the method may be performed on any suitable data structure.

At operation the recommendation engine may detect a recommendation event. A recommendation event may be an event that indicates that the recommendation engine is to generate a member profile recommendation for a source member. In some cases the recommendation engine may detect the recommendation event through an explicit request through an application programmable interface e.g. a function call or web based service request or based on detecting that the source member profile logged into or otherwise accessed the social network. The recommendation event may include data that specifies a source member profile e.g. a member profile identifier that uniquely identifies a member profile from the other member profiles in the social network service for the member profile recommendation.

At operation responsive to detecting the recommendation event the recommendation engine may identify a first indirect connection of a source member profile. The first indirect connection may be a member profile connected to the source member through a first connection path that includes member connections between the source member profile a first direct connection and the first indirect connection. With temporary reference to an example of a first connection path may be the minimum path from member profile A to member profile C. It is to be appreciated that this path includes member connections C and E. It is to be appreciated that each of these member connections may include connection timing data. For example member connection C includes connection timing data C and member connection E include connection timing data E.

With reference back to the recommendation engine at operation may then identify a second indirect connection of the source member profile. The second indirect connection may be a member profile connected to the source member profile through a second connection path that includes member connections between the source member profile a second direct connection and the second indirect connection. With temporary reference again to an example of a first connection path may be the minimum path from member profile A to member profile E. It is to be appreciated that this minimum path includes member connections B and A. It is to be appreciated that each of these member connections may include connection timing data. For example member connection B includes connection timing data B and member connection A include connection timing data A.

At operation the recommendation engine may then select between the first indirect connection and the second indirect connection based on a comparison of a timing score calculated for the first indirect connection and a timing score calculate for the second indirect connection. In some cases operation may use a timing function to perform the comparison. For example the timing function may compare a timing score assigned to each of the indirect connections and then select the timing path with the preferred timing score. The following is an example of a function used to assign a timing score to a connection path TS ctd ctd

TS may represent a timing score. wmay represent a weighting factor to be applied to connection timing data ctd linked to a first member connection in a connection path between the source member profile and the indirect member profile. wmay represent a weighting factor to be applied to connection timing data ctd linked to a second member connection in the connection path between the source member profile and the indirect member profile. It is to be appreciated that the values of wand Wmay be values determined by a machine learning approach that adjusts the values for these weighting factors based on operating a set of training data such that the values predict the likelihood that a corresponding member may be of interest to a given member profile. It is to be appreciated that the above example of a function to calculate a timing score is provided for the purpose of illustration and not limitation and example embodiments may use any other suitable timing function. For example other embodiments may use the following function to calculate a timing score TS ctd ctd.

In other example embodiments the function to calculate a timing score e.g. TS may involve more or less time connection data. For example where the recommendation engine generates member profile recommendations for third degree connections the function to calculate TS may involve a third connection time data e.g. ctd and a third weighting factor e.g. w . As another example the function to calculate a timing score may be based on the connection time data of the first degree member connection and not involve the connection time data of the indirect connections.

When a timing score is calculated for the first connection path and the second connection path the recommendation engine may select the second degree connection associated with the connection path with the lowest timing score. For example assuming wand ware both equal to the value 1.0 although these weighting factors may be equal to any other suitable value. Under this example the connection path to member profile C may result in a timing score of 7 days e.g. 1 5 Days 1 2 Days 7 days while the connection path to member profile E may result in a timing score of 1 year and 5 days e.g. 1 1 Year 1 5 Days 1 Year and 5 days . Thus the recommendation engine may select the member profile C because the member profile C is included in a connection path with a lower timing score than the connection path that includes member profile E.

With continued reference to the presentation engine at operation may then surface the selected indirect connection to the source member profile as for example a member profile recommendation. A connection recommendation may be a recommendation configured to cause a client device operated by the source member to display information from the member profile of the selected indirect connection e.g. name title profile image and the like . The connection recommendation may also be configured to cause the client device to display an interface element that if activated by the source member causes the social network service to form a direct connection between the source member and the selected indirect connection. A connection recommendation is discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

It is to be appreciated that some operations of may be performed prior to detecting a recommendation event. is a flow diagram illustrating a method that pre computes timing scores for indirect connections of a source member according to an example embodiment. The method may begin at operation when the recommendation engine calculates a timing score for one or more indirect connections associated with a source member profile. Calculating a timing score is described with reference to operation of . Operation may be part of a scheduled background process that operates independently of whether a service requests a member profile connection.

The calculated timing scores and corresponding indirect connections may be stored as a list or any other suitable data structure of tuples where each tuple pairs a calculated timing score with a corresponding member profile. These tuples may then be stored in a lookup table indexed by the member profile identifier assigned to the source member. For example the recommendation module may store the following tuples using an index associated with the member profile identifier assigned to the source member profile .

At operation the recommendation engine may detect a recommendation event. As described with reference to operation of a recommendation event may be an event that indicates that the recommendation engine is to generate a member profile recommendation for a source member. In some cases the recommendation engine may detect the recommendation event through an explicit request through an application programmable interface e.g. a function call or web based service request or based on detecting that the source member profile logged into or otherwise accessed the social network. The recommendation event may include data that specifies a source member profile e.g. a member profile identifier that uniquely identifies a member profile from the other member profiles in the social network service for the member profile recommendation.

At operation responsive to detecting the recommendation event the recommendation engine may search the indirect member connections and corresponding timing scores for the source member. This lookup may be performed by requesting the pre computed timing scores in the lookup table described above with reference to operation . Thus retrieving the pre computed timing scores based on the identifier assigned to the source member profile may return .

At operation the recommendation engine may then select the indirect connection based on a ranking of the timing scores calculated for each indirect connection. Thus member profile B may be selected because that member profile corresponds with the lowest timing score most recent .

At operation the selected indirect member profile is then surfaced to the source member profile. Surfacing an indirect member profile is described in greater detail with reference to operation of .

As described herein the presentation engine may surface content from member profiles selected by the recommendation engine . In the case of connection recommendations the content from the member profile may be presented in conjunction with actionable display elements that may in some cases cause the social network service to create a direct member connection between the source member profile and a member profile surfaced by the presentation engine .

The presentation engine may surface the suggestion module within a user interface the source member uses to access the social network service. For example the presentation engine may surface the suggestion module within a sidebar or rail location within a member profile page associated with the source member profile.

It is to be appreciated that the suggestion module shown in is provided to illustrate an example embodiment and should not be interpreted as limiting any aspect of other example embodiments contemplated by this disclosure. For example other embodiments may display more or less connection recommendations e.g. three connection recommendations . Further according to some embodiments the member profiles represented by the connection recommendations may differ depending on the implementation of the recommendation engine discussed above. For example some embodiments may utilize a timing function that weights the importance of the recent timing of a direct connection less than other embodiments.

It is to be appreciated that although the example methods and systems described herein have been described with respect to generating member profile recommendations usable to suggest member profiles another member profile may know but is yet a direct connection it is to be appreciated that the recommendation engine may be used to provide member profile recommendations usable in other types of applications. For example the recommendation engine may interface with an endorsement application. The endorsement application may be an application configured to suggest member profiles that a member may be interested in endorsing e.g. such as a skill Thus in an example embodiment the member connections A E may represent endorsements of a skill between members. Thus the endorsement application may use the member profile recommendation to generate a recommendation of member profile recently recommended by a member profile the source member recommended. The connection application may be an application configured to generate a recommendation for a source member

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules engines objects or devices that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules engines objects and devices referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules engines objects and or devices.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although some embodiments has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

