---

title: Methods for designing quadruple-ridged flared horn antennas
abstract: Novel methods and systems for antenna design are disclosed. A quadruple-ridged flared horn antenna can be designed based on geometry and frequency requirements. Automated optimization allows the design of antennas with decade-bandwidth. Optimized quadruple-ridged flared horn antennas can be used for radio astronomy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594857&OS=09594857&RS=09594857
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 09594857
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131213
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 846 510 filed on Jul. 15 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. AST0431486 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to radio antennas. More particularly it relates to methods for designing quadruple ridged flared horn antennas.

In a first aspect of the disclosure a method to design an antenna is described the method comprising providing by a computer initial values for an antenna geometry providing by a computer a desired frequency range for the antenna providing by a computer a subtended angle for the antenna performing by a computer an electromagnetic simulation for the antenna based on the initial values for the antenna geometry the desired frequency range and the subtended angle thereby obtaining scattering parameters and far field patterns for the antenna evaluating by a computer a cost function for the antenna based on the scattering parameters the far field patterns and the antenna geometry determining an optimized design for the antenna based on the initial values for the antenna geometry the desired frequency range the subtended angle the scattering parameters the far field patterns and the cost function thereby obtaining an optimized antenna.

Among the branches of astronomy radio astronomy is unique in that it spans the largest portion of the electromagnetic spectrum e.g. from about 10 MHz to 300 GHz. On the other hand due to scientific priorities as well as technological limitations radio astronomy receivers have traditionally covered only about an octave bandwidth. This approach of one specialized receiver for one primary science goal is however not only becoming too expensive for next generation radio telescopes comprising thousands of small antennas but also is inadequate to answer some of the scientific questions of today which require simultaneous coverage of very large bandwidths.

Significant improvements towards decade bandwidth radio astronomy can be achieved through the use of reflector feed antennas and low noise amplifiers on compound semiconductor technologies.

The present disclosure introduces methods for designing quadruple ridged flared horn antennas QRFH antennas . These antennas are flexible dual linear polarization reflector feed antennas that can achieve 5 1 7 1 frequency bandwidths while maintaining near constant beamwidth. The horn of such antennas are wideband feed antenna suitable for radio astronomy that can be designed to have nominal 10 dB beamwidth between 30 and 150 degrees. In some embodiments such antennas only require one single ended 50 low noise amplifier per polarization.

The geometry of a QRFH antenna is defined by a number of parameters such as angles and distances as can be understood by the person skilled in the art. In the optimization algorithm of the initial values for such a geometry can be provided by a user. The geometry of an antenna may comprise parameters for its sidewalls and for its ridges.

A frequency range of interest can also be provided. The f D parameters where D is the least distance of distinct vision and f is the focal length or the subtended angle can also be provided.

Therefore the first steps in the optimization comprise providing the initial set of parameters defining the problem 1. the starting QRFH geometry 2. the frequency range of interest and 3. the subtended angle to the primary secondary reflector .

Because multi variable optimizations can span many dimensions the user can also select the subset of the QRFH parameters to be used during optimization. This allows for evaluation of the most critical parameters as far as the performance of the antenna is concerned. To further expedite the process and reduce the number of infeasible geometries i.e. those that would produce completely unacceptable results the user can also supply a percentage range for each parameter e.g. 10 for parameter X 20 for Y etc. .

In a subsequent step of the optimization algorithm the algorithm searches through the existing database of QRFH simulations. In one embodiment this part of the algorithm runs in MATLAB therefore it is MATLAB that searches through the existing database of QRFH simulations. In the following an embodiment of the present disclosure will be described wherein parts of the algorithm are indicated as MATLAB to indicate that the algorithm can be executed in MATLAB. The person skilled in the art will understand that such embodiment is an example embodiment and the algorithm may be implemented in different ways. In other embodiments the MATLAB term in the following example may be substituted with the more generic term algorithm . Other parts of the algorithm in the following example are implemented in CST MWS. Similarly as understood by the person skilled in the art such parts of algorithm may be implemented in different ways and the more generic term algorithm may be substituted below for CST MWS .

Step ensures the initial QRFH geometry input by the user has not been simulated previously. If the geometry has been simulated previously a new set of parameters is generated so that each simulated geometry is unique. The new set of parameters can be generated by MATLAB within a variation range specified by the user for each parameter. The particular details of how MATLAB arrives at the new parameter set can be dependent on the optimization engine. Once a unique parameter set is found MATLAB uploads the profiles of the ridges and the sidewall separately to CST MWS in the form of x y coordinates. The CST model file built specifically for the QRFH antenna can then take the geometry coordinates and build the 3 D structure. The electromagnetic EM simulation is then started.

Upon completion of the EM simulation MATLAB commands CST to write scattering parameters S parameters and far field patterns to disk for archiving . The data set can also simultaneously or subsequently be read into MATLAB to calculate the optimization cost function . The cost function may comprise the input reflection coefficient aperture efficiency and ratio of power in the main beam of a cos Q pattern of a given edge taper to that of the simulated patterns. The cost function can be manually tailored for each target application. For instance some applications may require very stringent spillover control in which case the cost function may emphasize noise temperature over aperture efficiency. In some other cases spillover may be of less concern in which case the aperture efficiency may be given more weighting.

In general the target input return loss may be 10 dB or higher for QRFH antennas. The input reflection coefficient can be calculated from the scattering parameters results obtained from CST it is given by S11 and or S22 . This error is represented by three terms or three errors . Referring to the return loss error can be defined . In equation f is the simulated reflection coefficient as a function of discrete frequency f. The standing wave ratio error can be defined as in equation where SWR f is the standing wave ratio as a function of discrete frequency f. In equations and the 10 and 2 terms on the right hand sides are present for the case where goal for the return loss optimization is equal or greater than 10 dB equivalent to SWR 2 . A different constant factor may be defined for a different goal for the return loss optimization as understood by the person skilled in the art.

The errors can be stored in vector format in MATLAB and all the negative error terms can be discarded. The discrete frequency fis the set of frequencies at which CST calculates the scattering parameters for a total of N points . This set of frequencies is always larger than the number of frequencies at which far field patterns are calculated. Furthermore the errors can be calculated for example only in the frequency range of interest for the antenna. For example for an antenna target frequency range of 2 12 GHz the CST frequency range may usually be about 1.5 15 GHz. However in some embodiments for this example the errors are only calculated for frequencies between 2 and 12 GHz.

In some embodiments the third error parameter taken into consideration is simply the maximum error for the return loss error .

Therefore the three terms in the cost function proportional to the reflection coefficient are in some embodiments defined by equations in .

In the first parameter penalizes deviations of the average simulated return loss from the target 10 dB level. Similarly the second parameter penalizes deviations of the maximum simulated return loss. The last parameter can be included because of a special feature of the QRFH antennas. In particular the quad ridged horn return loss may decrease very rapidly at the low end of its frequency range due to waveguide cutoff. When this happens return loss approaches 0 dB relatively slowly. On the other hand the standing wave ratio may increase very rapidly in the limiting case where return loss 0 SWR infinity . Therefore this last error parameter ensures that the input return loss is as close to the desired level as possible at the low end of the QRFH frequency range.

The simulated aperture efficiency can be calculated per the equations in Section 2.2 of the PhD thesis of A. Akgiray New Technologies Driving Decade Bandwidth Radio Astronomy Quad Ridged Flared Horn Compound Semiconductor LNAs Caltech 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. These equations are approximations and the results obtained from them can be used in a relative sense e.g. to compare one simulation to another . The aperture efficiency error can be given as the equation in . In equation the discrete frequency frepresents the frequencies at which radiation patterns are calculated.

As mentioned above sometimes it s desirable to not use aperture efficiency as one of the optimization criteria. Instead a figure of merit FoM can be used which as understood by the person skilled in the art can often be defined as

where Tis an approximate system noise temperature. Because the equations described above are used in a relative sense as explained above the figure of merit is normalized prior to use in the cost function. In particular the simulated efficiency can be normalized by i.e. divided by the target efficiency that is 55 in some embodiments. The normalized system noise temperature can be given by

Another efficiency error term in the cost function may compare the simulated radiation patterns to the ideal cos Q pattern in the E and H planes. The user defines the desired edge taper ET at the half subtended angle and from this the cos Q pattern is easily obtained for example as in equation of . The cos Q pattern can then be integrated to get the total power and compared with the integral of the simulated patterns in the E and H planes for example as in equations and in .

Some purposes of these terms are to ensure that not only the simulated edge taper this is intimately related to spillover approaches the desired value but also to avoid nulls and large ripples in the main beam. The final cost vector can then be given for example by equation in .

Referring to some parameters of vector may comprise vector quantities dependent on frequency as understood by the person skilled in the art. Once the cost function is evaluated MATLAB can resume the optimization such as in algorithm in until design objectives are met which may never happen so the optimization can run until the user interrupts it .

Three built in MATLAB optimization routines may be used for example in the methods of the present disclosure namely lsqnonlin GlobalSearch simulannealbnd. The first is the default non linear least squares optimizer in MATLAB. It has the advantage of estimating the Jacobian of the cost function with respect to the optimization variables thereby learning to predict how a given change in one parameter will affect the cost function. One disadvantage however may be that it can easily converge to and get stuck in a local minima which may limit its use in some embodiments. The last two routines GlobalSearch simulannealbnd are part of Matlab s global optimization toolbox. In some applications the rate of convergence of the simulated annealing algorithm may be slow however it can automatically restart the optimizer with a randomly generated parameter set after a prescribed number of iterations. This may result in better coverage of the parameter space and may yielded several QRFH geometries.

In some embodiments the automated methods of the present disclosure may be implemented on a dedicated workstation with a graphics processing unit GPU .

The quad ridged horn geometry of a QRFH antenna may be represented by several parameters. In some embodiments about 15 parameters may be employed. Some of the possible parameters are illustrated in . These parameters will be understood by the person skilled in the art. Referring to some parameters may refer to the ridges such as ridge of a QRFH antenna. Other parameters may refer to a sidewall of a QRFH antenna.

The person skilled in the art will understand that the methods described in the present disclosure may be used to design other types of antennas for example with a different number of ridges.

The methods and systems described in the present disclosure may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Features described as blocks modules or components may be implemented together e.g. in a logic device such as an integrated logic device or separately e.g. as separate connected logic devices . The software portion of the methods of the present disclosure may comprise a computer readable medium which comprises instructions that when executed perform at least in part the described methods. The computer readable medium may comprise for example a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM . The instructions may be executed by a processor e.g. a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable logic array FPGA a graphic processing unit GPU or a general purpose GPU .

A number of embodiments of the disclosure have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

The examples set forth above are provided to those of ordinary skill in the art as a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the embodiments of the disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventor inventors regard as their disclosure.

Modifications of the above described modes for carrying out the methods and systems herein disclosed that are obvious to persons of skill in the art are intended to be within the scope of the following claims. All patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of skill of those skilled in the art to which the disclosure pertains. All references cited in this disclosure are incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference had been incorporated by reference in its entirety individually.

It is to be understood that the disclosure is not limited to particular methods or systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. The term plurality includes two or more referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the disclosure pertains.

