---

title: Artificial lift equipment power cables
abstract: A power cable for artificial lift equipment can include one or more conductor assemblies, each including a copper conductor, a conductor shield with resistivity less than about 5000 ohm-m surrounding the conductor, insulation, an insulation shield having a resistivity less than about 5000 ohm-m surrounding the insulation, a metallic shield surrounding the insulation shield, and a polymer barrier surrounding the metallic shield. Such a cable may include a jacket molded about the one or more conductor assemblies and optionally armor surrounding the jacket. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336929&OS=09336929&RS=09336929
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 09336929
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130514
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 648 826 filed 18 May 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Artificial lift equipment such as electric submersible pumps ESPs may be deployed for any of a variety of pumping purposes. For example where a substance does not readily flow responsive to existing natural forces an ESP may be implemented to artificially lift the substance. To receive power an ESP is connected to a cable or cables. In some instances the length of such a cable or cables may be of the order of several kilometers. A cable may also include one or more motor lead extensions MLEs spliced onto the cable. For example where the cable includes three conductor cores for powering a motor a MLE may be spliced onto each of the conductor cores. Length of a MLE may be for example on the order of tens of meters or more e.g. about 20 meters to about 100 meters .

Some examples of available ESP cables include those rated at about 3 kV about 4 kV or about 5 kV. For commercially available ESP cables about 5 kV may be considered a present day upper rating limit for high temperature downhole cables e.g. due to a lack of electrical stress relief layers etc. .

As may be appreciated ESP configurations operations etc. can depend on cable rating or integrity. As an example reliability data for an ESP cable may be primary in estimating a mean time between failure MTBF for an operation. Failure of a cable can increase non productive time NPT repair and replacement costs etc. especially for deep installations e.g. where over a kilometer of cable may be deployed .

Various technologies techniques etc. described herein pertain to cables for example to provide power to electrically powered equipment positionable in a well.

A power cable for artificial lift equipment can include one or more conductor assemblies where each conductor assembly includes a copper conductor a conductor shield with resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m surrounding the conductor insulation an insulation shield having a resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m surrounding the insulation a metallic shield surrounding the insulation shield and a polymer barrier surrounding the metallic shield a jacket molded about the one or more conductor assemblies and armor surrounding the jacket. A power cable for downhole equipment can include a copper conductor a conductor shield with resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m surrounding the conductor insulation an insulation shield having a resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m surrounding the insulation a metallic shield surrounding the insulation shield a polymer barrier surrounding the metallic shield a braided layer surrounding the metallic shield and armor surrounding the braided layer. A method can include providing a conductor providing a semiconductive material providing an insulating material extruding a portion of the semiconductive material onto the conductor extruding the insulating material onto the semiconductive material and extruding another portion of the semiconductive material onto the insulating material.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

Artificial lift equipment such as electric submersible pumps ESPs may be deployed for any of a variety of pumping purposes. For example where a substance does not readily flow responsive to existing natural forces an ESP may be implemented to artificially lift the substance. Commercially available ESPs such as the REDA ESPs marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. may find use in applications that require for example pump rates in excess of about 4 000 barrels per day and lift of about 12 000 feet or more.

ESPs have associated costs including equipment costs replacement costs repair costs and power consumption costs. Selection of appropriate ESP specifications can be an arduous task especially given the fact that many factors are dynamic and even stochastic. For example composition of a pumped substance may vary over time cost of electrical power may vary over time entrainment of solids may vary over time etc. The ability to predict variations in such factors with respect to time may span a spectrum from poor to excellent e.g. depending on available data models etc. . Further adjusting operation of an ESP for a change in one factor may give rise to unintended consequences. For example a change in cost of power may give rise to a need to operate a pump motor with greater efficiency which in turn may alter inlet pressure to the pump which in turn may cause a change in phase composition of a substance being pumped which in turn may impact the ability of centrifugal pump stages to lift the substance. Where a change in phase includes an increase in free gas e.g. approaching 10 by volume a condition known as gas lock may occur a form of cavitation that can cause a pump to surge and fail prematurely.

To assist with selection of ESP specifications a manufacturer may provide a plot with a pump performance curve that defines an optimal operating range for a given pump speed and fluid viscosity. Such a plot may include a head capacity curve that shows amount of lift per pump stage at a given flow rate a horsepower requirements curve across a range of flow capacities and a pump efficiency curve for example calculated from head flow capacity fluid specific gravity and horsepower. As an example an ESP may be specified as having a best efficiency point BEP of about 77 for a flow of about 7 900 barrels per day a head of about 49 feet and a horsepower of about 3.69 for a fluid specific gravity of approximately 1.0 e.g. REDA 538 Series 1 stage at 3 500 RPM at 60 Hz . An ESP may be specified with a lift per stage such that a number of stages may be selected for an application to meet lift requirements.

Adjustments may be made to an ESP for example where the ESP is outfitted with a variable speed drive VSD unit. A VSD unit can include an ESP controller such as for example the UniConn controller marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . In combination a VSD unit with an ESP controller allows for variations in motor speed to pump optimal rates at variable frequencies which can better manage power heat etc. As to heat generated by a motor an ESP may rely on flow of pumped fluid for cooling such that a change in motor speed can change steady state operating temperature of the motor and correspondingly efficiency of the motor. Given such relationships trade offs can exist for example between motor lifetime power consumption and flow rate.

To improve ESP operations an ESP may include one or more sensors e.g. gauges that measure any of a variety of phenomena e.g. temperature pressure vibration etc. . A commercially available sensor is the Phoenix MultiSensor marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. which monitors intake and discharge pressures intake motor and discharge temperatures and vibration and current leakage. An ESP monitoring system may include a supervisory control and data acquisition system SCADA . Commercially available surveillance systems include the espWatcher and the LiftWatcher surveillance systems marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. which provides for communication of data for example between a production team and well field data e.g. with or without SCADA installations . Such a system may issue instructions to for example start stop or control ESP speed via an ESP controller.

As an example a commercially available surface use cable rated for voltages higher than about 5 kV may be round and based on NEMA WC 71 ICEA S 96 659 and WC 74 ICEAS 93 639. Such a cable may include the following a copper conductor a semiconductive conductor shield layer an insulation layer semiconductive insulation shield layer conductive metallic shield layer e.g. metallic braid or tape wrap with copper a cable jacket polyethylene and armor galvanized steel . However in comparison to surface environments downhole environments may be harsh in terms of temperature pressure and chemistry. Further downhole environments may be harsh mechanically. For example consider abrasion and mechanical stresses that may occur as a cable traverses hundreds of meters especially where the cable carries the weight of equipment such as an ESP. Yet further a downhole installation that may have a length of a kilometer or more may offer little opportunity for filtering etc. to handle electrical issues such as voltage spikes e.g. due to resonance etc. . Additionally information about downhole equipment may be limited in comparison to a surface operation. For example where a surface mounted motor may be readily fitted with sensors etc. and associated data transmission lines a data transmission line for a downhole motor may be so long that data bandwidth and data integrity become problematic. Lack of information about operating conditions of a downhole motor may increase risk of issues that could detrimentally impact cable performance and reliability. Accordingly downhole operations present factors not present in surface operations e.g. or not present to the same extent as in surface operations .

As to power cables suitable for downhole operations as an example a round ESP cable rated for operation up to about 5 kV can include one or more copper conductors oil and heat resistant EPDM rubber insulation e.g. where The E refers to ethylene P to propylene D to diene and M refers to a classification in ASTM standard D 1418 e.g. ethylene copolymerized with propylene and a diene a barrier layer e.g. lead fluoropolymer or none for low cost cables a jacket e.g. oil resistant EPDM or nitrile rubber and armor e.g. galvanized or stainless steel or MONEL alloy marketed by Inco Alloys International Inc. Huntington W. Va. . As another example a flat ESP cable for operation up to about 5 kV can include one or more copper conductors oil and heat resistant EPDM rubber insulation barrier layer e.g. lead fluoropolymer or none for low cost cables a jacket layer oil resistant EPDM or nitrile rubber or none for low cost cables and armor galvanized or stainless steel or MONEL alloy marketed by Inco Alloys International Inc. Huntington W. Va. .

As an example an insulation material for a cable may be EPDM. EPDM compounds tend to have good dielectric properties and heat resistance but tend to be susceptible to swelling when exposed to hydrocarbons. In downhole oilfield applications permeation of outer layers of a cable by fluid may result in fluid contacting the insulation. To mitigate such risks ESP cable manufacturers may use proprietary EPDM compound formulations designed to limit the effects of hydrocarbons. Such formulations may be referred to as low swell EPDM or oil resistant EPDM.

As to particular gas risks as an example consider a downhole environment at elevated pressures e.g. greater than about 1 000 psi which may cause gas intrusion into an ESP an ESP cable etc. In such an example where hydrogen sulfide HS gas is present at elevated pressure it may permeate through elastomers and corrode copper conductors of insufficiently robust cables. Further once downhole gases have permeated a cable a rapid change in well pressure can cause explosive decompression damage rendering a cable inoperable.

Elastomer compounds that may be found in commercially available ESP cable jacketing e.g. EPDM and or nitrile tend to be proprietary oilfield formulations. EPDM based jacketing materials as with EPDM insulation materials tend to be formulated for oil and decompression resistance. Nitrile compounds have inherent oil resistance however as an example some oilfield specific nitrile compounds aim to combine oil resistance with brine and water resistance as well as decompression resistance and good heat aging.

As an example of a commercially available power cables suitable for downhole use consider the the RedaMAX Hotline ESP power cables e.g. as well as motor lead extensions MLEs which are marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . As an example a RedaMAX Hotline ESP power cable can include combinations of polyimide tape lead EPDM and polyether ether ketone PEEK e.g. or another poly aryl ether ketone PAEK type of polymer to provide insulation and a jacket. Lead walls can provide for compatibility with high gas oil ratio GOR and highly corrosive conditions. Armor can mechanically protect the cable and may be galvanized steel heavy galvanized steel stainless steel or MONEL alloy. As an example a pothead an electrical connector between a cable and an ESP motor may be constructed with metal to metal seals or elastomer seals. A pothead can provide a mechanical barrier to fluid entry in high temperature applications.

The RedaMAX Hotline ESP power cables may be suitable for use in wells with high bottomhole temperatures steamflooding and thermal recovery applications geothermal applications gassy wells wells with corrosive fluids including HS CO and chemical treatments.

As an example of a RedaMAX Hotline ESP power cable a 5 kV round ELBE G5R can include solid conductor sizes of about 1 AWG e.g. 1 AWG 1 about 2 AWG e.g. 2 AWG 1 and about 4 AWG e.g. 4 AWG 1 . As to conversion to metric 1 2 and 4 AWG correspond to approximately 42.4 mm 33.6 mm and 21.1 mm respectively. As another example a 5 kV flat EHLTB G5F can include a solid conductor size of 4 AWG e.g. 4 AWG 1 . As an example dimensions may be for round configurations about 1 to 2 inches in diameter and for flat configurations about half an inch by about 1 inch to about 2 inches. As an example weights may range from about 1 lbm ft to about 3 lbm ft.

Various examples of power cables and various examples of method for making a power cable e.g. or a portion thereof are described herein. Such power cables can include at least one layer formed of a semiconductive material. For example a cable may include a semiconductive conductor shield and a semiconductive insulation shield. In such an example semiconductive material may be fed via an extruder or extruders for deposition onto another layer e.g. a conductor and an insulation layer respectively . As an example insulation or an insulation layer may be deposited via extrusion onto a conductor shield via an extrusion process optionally a co extrusion process that deposits both the conductor shield and the insulation e.g. which may allow for cross linking at an interface therebetween . As an example an insulation shield may be deposited onto insulation in a manner that facilitates stripping of the insulation shield from the insulation for example for purposes of splicing a conductor about which the insulation is deposited e.g. with an intermediate conductor shield .

As an example a cable suitable for downhole use may be constructed with materials having properties resistant to conditions associated with a corrosive oilfield environment resistant to hydrocarbons resistant to high pressure gases and or capable of operating at temperatures above about 180 degrees C.

As an example a power cable may include multiple conductors where each conductor has an associated conductor shield insulation insulation shield metallic shield and barrier layer. For each conductor such a layered assembly may be referred to as a single conductor cable. For a power cable that includes multiple conductors configured as multiple single conductor cables a cable jacket may be provided that jackets the multiple single conductor cables. Further one or more armor layers may surround the cable jacket.

As an example a motor lead extension MLE may be a single conductor cable. Such a single conductor cable may include a conductor a conductor shield insulation an insulation shield a metallic shield a barrier layer a braid layer and armor. Where a conductor has a cylindrical shape the various components may be annular in shape of increasing diameter where thickness of each annular component is selected for example according to function to provide suitable physical characteristics for purposes of withstanding operational conditions including electromagnetic and environmental conditions. Such an arrangement of components may be coaxial for example various components may be arranged coaxially about a conductor which may be a solid conductor a braided conductor etc.

As an example e.g. to lower cost ease spooling etc. MLEs may be consolidated into an N across flat cable e.g. where N equals a number of conductors . In such an example each conductor may have an individual armor jacket where an overall additional armor layer helps to tie the individual armor jacketed conductors together. As an alternative example consolidated MLEs may include an overall armor layer e.g. or jacket . In the foregoing MLE examples an outer jacket may be individual consolidated or skipped entirely.

As to conductors for example a cable may include conductors of high purity copper which may be solid stranded or compacted stranded. Stranded and compacted stranded conductors can offer improved flexibility which may be an advantage in some installations. Conductors may also be coated with a corrosion resistant coating to prevent conductor degradation from the hydrogen sulfide gas which is commonly present in downhole environments. Examples of such a coating would include tin lead nickel silver or other corrosion resistant alloy or metal.

As to conductors compacted strands provide a combination of flexibility and reduced cross section. A coating may be applied to a conductor for example to prevent slow corrosion of copper by downhole gases. Such a coating may be compatible with a subsequent process e.g. conductor shield extrusion etc. . As an example a corrosion resistant coating may be provided in an effort to prevent conductor degradation from HS gas. Such a coating may include for example tin lead nickel silver or another corrosion resistant alloy or metal.

As an example a gas blocking coating may be applied to a conductor for example an Amalloy lead based metal alloy may be applied to one or more conductors e.g. to help block gas such as gas that includes HS .

As to conductor shields a conductor shield may be a semiconductive layer around the conductor e.g. optionally including a coating that acts to control electrical stress in a cable to minimize discharge. Such a layer may include a thickness of about 0.002 to about 0.020 . Such a layer may be bonded to the conductor e.g. optionally including a coating and insulation to prevent gas migration or it may be strippable to allow for easy cable repair splicing etc. As an example a strippable conductor shield can assist with easy cable repair and splicing. Whether or not a conductor shield is bonded may depend on the application.

As an example a conductor shield may be a semiconductive tape wrap or an extruded semiconductive polymer composition. Such a layer may be an elastomer or thermoplastic co extruded with insulation. As an example co extruded elastomer insulation shield and insulation may allow for cross linking the insulation shield and insulation materials. Co extruded thermoplastics may provide for intimate bonding e.g. optionally without cross linking . Such manufacturing processes can help eliminate voids at the conductor shield insulation interface.

As mentioned material used for the conductor shield may be semiconductive for example defined as having a resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m. As an example an elastomer e.g. EPDM compound loaded with conductive fillers may be used. As an example for high temperature and reliability improvement a PEEK compound or related high temperature polymer containing conductive or semiconductive fillers may be used. Selection of the optimum filler type and filler quantity can help achieve an optimum level of volume resistivity in the compound. The insulation shield and the insulation may include the same or similar material which can facilitate processing.

As to a conductor shield it may have some adhesion to a conductor to provide a void free interface. Adhesion to a conductor can also help prevent downhole gases from migrating along a cable. Extrusion can provide a relatively smooth surface e.g. compared to tape and tend to allow for penetration of material into spaces between strands of a conductor. Noting that for a conductor shield irregularities in its surface may cause voltage stress points. A conductor shield may be an elastomer or thermoplastic co extruded or tandem extruded with insulation allowing the layers to cross link together e.g. elastomer or intimately bond e.g. thermoplastic which may help to eliminate voids at the interface of these layers. Such an approach can provide for discharge resistance e.g. for EPDM and PAEK insulation materials . A conductor shield may include several different elastomers. A conductor shield may include nanoscale fillers e.g. to provide a combination of low resistivity and good mechanical properties .

As to insulation it may include a material such as for example EPDM or for example for improved temperature and reliability PEEK may be used e.g. or another PAEK material . For EPDM based insulation a compound formulation for oil and decompression resistance may be selected. As to PEEK it may provide improved mechanical properties that allow for improved damage resistance during cable installation and cable operation. The higher stiffness of PEEK may also allow for greater ease in sealing over cable members at cable termination points motor pothead well connectors feed throughs etc. . Such construction can improve reliability of the cable and of a system.

Insulation e.g. an insulation layer may adhere to or be bonded to a conductor shield. Insulation may be continuous with an insulation shield optionally completely or partially bonded. As an example a continuous defect free interface may be formed between insulation and a conductor shield e.g. with some amount of adhesion . Cable connections may at times be considered weak points of a system. As an example PEEK insulation can improve seal reliability at high temperature and improve sealing through thermal cycling high operating temp followed by shutdown and large temperature drops .

As to an insulation shield it may include a material that is semiconductive for example applied as a layer over insulation to minimize electrical stresses in a cable. An insulation shield may be bonded to insulation or it may be readily strippable. Some adhesion between layers of a cable may help to prevent voids or defects in a cable. An insulation shield material may be a semiconductive tape or a semiconductive polymer composite. As an example a conductor shield and an insulation shield may optionally be co extruded with insulation to help ensure more complete contact between surfaces. As to semiconductivity an insulation shield material may be defined as having a resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m. As an example the same material may be used for an insulation shield as for a conductor shield. As another example a different material may be used e.g. to enhance strip ability processing etc. .

As an example an insulation shield and or a conductor shield may be made of a semiconductive EPDM material such as described in US Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0171370 which is incorporated by reference herein. As an example an insulation shield and or a conductor shield may include carbon black powder s carbon nanontubes etc. to increase conductivity of a polymer matrix to form a semiconductive polymer composite material.

As to an insulation shield it may be well adhered but for example be removable e.g. for splicing where after removal there is minimal or no residual material left on the insulation. Extruded polymer can provide for a smooth surface. As to smooth surfaces such surfaces may provide for reduction in stress e.g. on surrounding layers during bending etc. .

As to a metallic shield outside of an insulation shield a metallic shield layer can optionally be applied to serve as a ground plane. Such a layer can serve to electrically isolate the various phases of the conductors of the cable from each other. For example copper aluminum lead or other conductive material tape braid paint or extrusion may be applied to provide a conductive layer. Such a layer may also serve as a barrier to downhole gas and fluids protecting the inner cable layers. For example a metallic shield may be lead Pb as lead tends to be inert and resistant to downhole fluids and gases. Lead layers may also provide an impermeable gas barrier. Lead Pb materials used in barriers may include lead Pb alloyed with small amounts of additives to enhance properties e.g. copper bearing or antimonial lead noting that high purity lead Pb may be used.

As to a barrier layer such a layer may help protect a cable from corrosive downhole gases and fluids noting that additional barrier layers may then be applied if desired. A barrier may be provided as an extruded or taped layer s of fluoropolymers lead or other material e.g. to help protect against well fluids . As an example a combination of extruded and taped layers may be used. As to a barrier layer as an example helically taped PTFE fluoropolymer tape may be used.

As to a cable jacket for round cable designs e.g. where three conductors may be twisted together a fluid gas and temperature resistant jacket may be used. This jacket can help protect a cable from damage in extreme downhole environments. Such a cable jacket may include one or more layers of EPDM nitrile HNBR fluoropolymer chloroprene or other material e.g. resistant to a downhole environment . As an example cable phases may be split out from each other with each phase encased in solid metallic tubing.

As to a cable jacket as an example a round cable e.g. circular cross section can provides for damage resistance and balanced temperature distribution and electrical fields. As another example conductors assemblies may be set in a side by side arrangement as a flat cable e.g. polygonal or rectangular cross section for applications with space constraints downhole. As an example cable phases may be split out from each other with each phase encased in solid metallic tubing e.g. optionally without an overall jacket . Such a conductor arrangement may provide for motor lead extensions where splitting out the phases makes them easier to terminate and provides improved cooling from the ambient.

As to cable armor cable armor may be for example galvanized steel stainless steel MONEL alloy or other metal metal alloy or non metal e.g. resistant to downhole conditions . Multiple layers of armor may be included or applied for improved damage resistance. Armor may be a helically spun metal alloy or other material.

As an example a power cable e.g. and optionally one or more lead extensions may be employed to power a higher voltage high horsepower type of ESP systems. Such ESP systems find use in subsea applications where high reliability is quite desirable e.g. long MTBF etc. . As an example a power cable e.g. and optionally one or more lead extensions may be employed in an industry for power transmission in high temperature corrosive applications.

As an example a higher voltage rated cable may be used to power a high horsepower system. As an example a higher voltage rated cable may be used to improved run time of a system e.g. initially ran at lower voltage such as about 5 kV and below . As an example if one phase e.g. one phase line or phase conductor of a 3 phase power system fails it may be possible to increase voltage on the other two phases e.g. other two phase lines or phase conductors for example such that an ESP system can continue to operate e.g. without costly physical intervention . In such an example higher voltage rated cables may provide for some additional assurances at the higher voltages on the other two phases. For example insulating capabilities may help to assure breakdown e.g. current leakage does not occur at the higher voltages of the two phases.

As an example use of a cable rated at a voltage higher than about 5 kV e.g. about 8 kV in an about 5 kV system may allow for increased reliability. For example if one of the cable phases e.g. phase lines or phase conductors is damaged or fails voltage may be increased beyond about 5 kV on the remaining two phases to provide for continued operation of the system. Such an approach may be especially valuable in deepwater applications where physical intervention is cost prohibitive.

As an example a cable may include one or more conductive ground planes for example to handle failure of a phase e.g. a phase line or phase conductor to ground e.g. without damaging the other phases or the cable armor or jacket .

As an example a higher voltage rated cable may allow for handling voltage drops associated with cable length e.g. to account for voltage drop in very long cables which may be particularly useful in deepwater subsea applications .

To understand better how artificial lift equipment power cables may fit into an overall strategy some examples of processes are described below as applied to basins and for example production from one or more reservoirs in a basin.

In the example of the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators ESPs etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment e.g. an ESP which may include equipment to acquire information to assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc.

In the example of the downhole equipment may be artificial lift equipment that is powered by a power cable which may optionally also provide for data transmission e.g. uni or bi directional . In a line labeled may be a power cable a power cable and piping etc. As shown a power cable may be exposed to water which may be high in salts and corrosive. As shown a cable may be partially in water and partially in a wellbore. Accordingly a cable may be exposed to various different types of environments. Such environments may pose different constraints germane to cable integrity.

As to the management components of these may include a seismic data component an information component a pre simulation processing component a simulation component an attribute component a post simulation processing component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component optionally with pre simulation processing via the processing component and optionally with post simulation processing via the processing component .

According to an embodiment the simulation component may rely on entities . Entities may be earth entities or geological objects such as wells surfaces reservoirs etc. In the system the entities may include virtual representations of actual physical entities that are reconstructed for purposes of simulation. The entities may be based on data acquired via sensing observation etc. e.g. the seismic data and other information .

According to an embodiment the simulation component may rely on a software framework such as an object based framework. In such a framework entities may be based on pre defined classes to facilitate modeling and simulation. A commercially available example of an object based framework is the MICROSOFT .NET framework Redmond Wash. which provides a set of extensible object classes. In the .NET framework an object class encapsulates a module of reusable code and associated data structures. Object classes can be used to instantiate object instances for use in by a program script etc. For example borehole classes may define objects for representing boreholes based on well data.

In the example of the simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes specified by the attribute component which may be a library of attributes. Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component . Alternatively or in addition to the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . According to an embodiment the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results. Additionally or alternatively output from the simulation component may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component . Further dotted lines indicate possible feedback within the management components . For example feedback may occur between the analysis visualization component and either one of the processing components and .

According to an embodiment the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes. Such a framework may be considered an application and may be considered a data driven application e.g. where data is input for purposes of simulating a geologic environment .

According to an embodiment the management components may include features for geology and geological modeling to generate high resolution geological models of reservoir structure and stratigraphy e.g. classification and estimation facies modeling well correlation surface imaging structural and fault analysis well path design data analysis fracture modeling workflow editing uncertainty and optimization modeling petrophysical modeling etc. . As to reservoir engineering for a generated model one or more features may allow for simulation workflow to perform streamline simulation reduce uncertainty and assist in future well planning e.g. uncertainty analysis and optimization workflow well path design advanced gridding and upscaling history match analysis etc. . The management components may include features for drilling workflows including well path design drilling visualization and real time model updates e.g. via real time data links .

According to an embodiment various aspects of the management components may be add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. allows for seamless integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. According to an embodiment various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. .

The model simulation layer may provide domain objects act as a data source provide for rendering and provide for various user interfaces . Rendering may provide a graphical environment in which applications can display their data while the user interfaces may provide a common look and feel for application user interface components.

In the example of the domain objects can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects. Entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. For example an entity object may represent a well where a property object provides log information as well as version information and display information e.g. to display the well as part of a model .

In the example of data may be stored in one or more data sources or data stores generally physical data storage devices which may be at the same or different physical sites and accessible via one or more networks. The model simulation layer may be configured to model projects. As such a particular project may be stored where stored project information may include inputs models results and cases. Thus upon completion of a modeling session a user may store a project. At a later time the project can be accessed and restored using the model simulation layer which can recreate instances of the relevant domain objects.

The PETREL framework can integrate multidisciplinary workflows surrounding ECLIPSE simulation modules for example to provide transparent data flows and an intuitive graphical user interface. Modules may include the ECLIPSE blackoil simulation module for three phase 3D reservoir simulation with extensive well controls field operations planning and comprehensive enhanced oil recovery EOR schemes the ECLIPSE compositional simulation module for reservoir fluid phase behavior and compositional changes when modeling multicomponent hydrocarbon flow the ECLIPSE FrontSim simulation module for modeling multiphase fluid flow along streamlines supporting both geological model screening and pattern flood management the ECLIPSE thermal simulation module for support of a wide range of thermal recovery processes including steam assisted gravity drainage cyclic steam operations toe to heel air injection and cold heavy oil production with sand and one or more other modules such as a coalbed methane module an advanced well module etc. As described herein an ESP controller may optionally provide for access to one or more frameworks e.g. PETREL ECLIPSE PIPESIM etc. .

In the example of as indicated the management components may receive information see e.g. the feedback from the geologic environment . As an example the downhole equipment may include an ESP outfitted with one or more sensors that transmit data as for example the other information . In turn one or more of the management components may process the data to provide instructions to the geologic environment for example to adjust one or more operational parameters that may impact operation of the downhole equipment e.g. an ESP . As shown in transmission of information may occur via one or more networks. Further information from other geologic environments other downhole equipment etc. may be transmitted to one or more of the management components .

In the example of the equipment may be steam assisted gravity drainage SAGD equipment for injecting steam and extracting resources from a reservoir . For example a SAGD operation can include a steam injection well and a resource production well . SAGD equipment may be considered artificial lift equipment as it can assist with artificial lift. As an example a power cable may be connected to SAGD equipment. Further where such equipment includes a motor or other electrically powered unit e.g. a heating unit one or more MLEs may be provided which may be referred to as lead extensions e.g. where they do not power a motor .

In the example of a downhole steam generator generates steam in the injection well for example based on supplies of water and fuel from surface conduits and artificial lift equipment e.g. ESP etc. may be implemented to facilitate resource production. While a downhole steam generator is shown steam may be alternatively or additionally generated at the surface level. As illustrated in a cross sectional view the steam rises in the subterranean portion. As the steam rises it transfers heat to a desirable resource such as heavy oil. As the resource is heated its viscosity decreases allowing it to flow more readily to the resource production well .

As illustrated in the example of SAGD is a technique that involves subterranean delivery of steam to enhance flow of heavy oil bitumen etc. SAGD can be applied for Enhanced Oil Recovery EOR which is also known as tertiary recovery because it changes properties of oil in situ.

With respect to extraction SAGD may result in condensed steam from an upper well may accompany oil to a lower well which can impact artificial lift e.g. ESP operations and increase demands on separation processing where it is desirable to separate one or more components from the oil and water mixture.

As to the downhole steam generator it may be fed by three separate streams of natural gas air and water where a gas air mixture is combined first to create a flame and then the water is injected downstream to create steam. In such an example the water can also serve to cool a burner wall or walls e.g. by flowing in a passageway or passageways within a wall .

The example of demonstrates how operation of a steam generator or more generally steam injection may impact operation of downhole equipment such as an ESP. Referring to the example of the management components may receive information see e.g. the feedback from the geologic environment similarly the management components may apply to the geologic environment of for example where the equipment the equipment or both may transmit data as for example the other information . In turn one or more of the management components may process the data to provide instructions to the environment for example to adjust one or more operational parameters that may impact operation of the equipment the equipment e.g. an ESP or other equipment. As shown in transmission of information may occur via one or more networks. Further information from other geologic environments other downhole equipment etc. may be transmitted to one or more of the management components .

The well includes a wellhead that can include a choke e.g. a choke valve . For example the well can include a choke valve to control various operations such as to reduce pressure of a fluid from high pressure in a closed wellbore to atmospheric pressure. Adjustable choke valves can include valves constructed to resist wear due to high velocity solids laden fluid flowing by restricting or sealing elements. A wellhead may include one or more sensors such as a temperature sensor a pressure sensor a solids sensor etc.

The ESP includes cables a pump gas handling features a pump intake a motor and one or more sensors e.g. temperature pressure current leakage vibration etc. . The well may include one or more well sensors for example such as the commercially available OpticLine sensors or WellWatcher BriteBlue sensors marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . Such sensors are fiber optic based and can provide for real time sensing of temperature for example in SAGD or other operations. As shown in the example of a well can include a relatively horizontal portion. Such a portion may collect heated heavy oil responsive to steam injection. Measurements of temperature along the length of the well can provide for feedback for example to understand conditions downhole of an ESP. Well sensors may extend thousands of feet into a well e.g. 4 000 feet or more and beyond a position of an ESP.

The controller can include one or more interfaces for example for receipt transmission or receipt and transmission of information with the motor controller a VSD unit the power supply e.g. a gas fueled turbine generator a power company etc. the network equipment in the well equipment in another well etc.

As shown in the controller can include or provide access to one or more modules or frameworks. Further the controller may include features of an ESP motor controller and optionally supplant the ESP motor controller . For example the controller may include the UniConn motor controller marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . In the example of the controller may access one or more of the PIPESIM framework the ECLIPSE framework and the PETREL framework .

In the example of the motor controller may be a commercially available motor controller such as the UniConn motor controller. The UniConn motor controller can connect to a SCADA system the espWatcher surveillance system etc. The UniConn motor controller can perform some control and data acquisition tasks for ESPs surface pumps or other monitored wells. The UniConn motor controller can interface with the Phoenix monitoring system for example to access pressure temperature and vibration data and various protection parameters as well as to provide direct current power to downhole sensors. The UniConn motor controller can interface with fixed speed drive FSD controllers or a VSD unit for example such as the VSD unit .

For FSD controllers the UniConn motor controller can monitor ESP system three phase currents three phase surface voltage supply voltage and frequency ESP spinning frequency and leg ground power factor and motor load.

For VSD units the UniConn motor controller can monitor VSD output current ESP running current VSD output voltage supply voltage VSD input and VSD output power VSD output frequency drive loading motor load three phase ESP running current three phase VSD input or output voltage ESP spinning frequency and leg ground.

The UniConn motor controller can include control functionality for VSD units such as target speed minimum and maximum speed and base speed voltage divided by frequency three jump frequencies and bandwidths volts per hertz pattern and start up boost ability to start an ESP while the motor is spinning acceleration and deceleration rates including start to minimum speed and minimum to target speed to maintain constant pressure load e.g. from about 0.01 Hz 10 000 s to about 1 Hz s stop mode with PWM carrier frequency base speed voltage selection rocking start frequency cycle and pattern control stall protection with automatic speed reduction changing motor rotation direction without stopping speed force speed follower mode frequency control to maintain constant speed pressure or load current unbalance voltage unbalance overvoltage and undervoltage ESP backspin and leg ground.

In the example of the ESP motor controller includes various modules to handle for example backspin of an ESP sanding of an ESP flux of an ESP and gas lock of an ESP. As mentioned the motor controller may include any of a variety of features additionally alternatively etc.

In the example of the VSD unit may be a low voltage drive VSD unit a medium voltage drive MVD unit or other type of unit. For a LVD a VSD unit can include a step up transformer control circuitry and a step up transformer while for a MVD a VSD unit can include an integrated transformer and control circuitry. As an example the VSD unit may receive power with a voltage of about 4.16 kV and control a motor as a load with a voltage from about 0 V to about 4.16 kV.

The VSD unit may include commercially available control circuitry such as the SpeedStar MVD control circuitry marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The SpeedStar MVD control circuitry is suitable for indoor or outdoor use and comes standard with a visible fused disconnect switch precharge circuitry and sine wave output filter e.g. integral sine wave filter ISWF tailored for control and protection of high horsepower ESPs. The SpeedStar MVD control circuitry can include a plug and play sine wave output filter a multilevel PWM inverter output a 0.95 power factor programmable load reduction e.g. soft stall function speed control circuitry to maintain constant load or pressure rocking start e.g. for stuck pumps resulting from scale sand etc. a utility power receptacle an acquisition system for the Phoenix monitoring system a site communication box to support surveillance and control service a speed control potentiometer. The SpeedStar MVD control circuitry can optionally interface with the UniConn motor controller which may provide some of the foregoing functionality.

In the example of the VSD unit is shown along with a plot of a sine wave e.g. achieved via a sine wave filter that includes a capacitor and a reactor responsiveness to vibration responsiveness to temperature and as being managed to reduce mean time between failures MTBFs . The VSD unit may be rated with an ESP to provide for about 40 000 hours 5 years of operation at a temperature of about 50 C with about a 100 load. The VSD unit may include surge and lightening protection e.g. one protection circuit per phase . With respect to operational cost as an example for a 373 kW load an increase in efficiency of about 0.5 may translate into about 1 000 per year in power savings e.g. depending on cost of power . As to leg ground monitoring or water intrusion monitoring such types of monitoring can indicate whether corrosion is or has occurred. Further monitoring of power quality from a supply to a motor at a motor may occur by one or more circuits or features of a controller.

Overall system efficiency can affect power supply from the utility or generator. As described herein monitoring of ITHD VTHD PF and overall efficiency may occur e.g. surface measurements . Such surface measurements may be analyzed in separately or optionally in conjunction with a pump curve. VSD unit related surface readings e.g. at an input to a VSD unit can optionally be input to an economics model. For example the higher the PF and therefore efficiency e.g. by running an ESP at a higher frequency and at close to about a 100 load the less harmonics current lower ITHD sensed by the power supply. In such an example well operations can experience less loses and thereby lower energy costs for the same load.

While the example of shows an ESP with centrifugal pump stages another type of ESP may be controlled. For example an ESP may include a hydraulic diaphragm electric submersible pump HDESP which is a positive displacement double acting diaphragm pump with a downhole motor. HDESPs find use in low liquid rate coalbed methane and other oil and gas shallow wells that require artificial lift to remove water from the wellbore. A HDESP can be set above or below the perforations and run in wells that are for example less than about 2 500 ft deep and that produce less than about 200 barrels per day. HDESPs may handle a wide variety of fluids and for example up to about 2 sand coal fines and HS CO.

As shown the MLEs connect to a motor block which may be a motor or motors of an ESP and be controllable via the VSD step up transformer block . In the example of the conductors of the MLEs electrically connect at a WYE point . The circuitry block may derive power via the WYE point and may optionally transmit receive or transmit and receive data via the WYE point . As shown the circuitry block may be grounded.

The system can operate in a normal state State A and in a ground fault state State B . One or more ground faults may occur for any of a variety of reasons. For example wear of the power cable may cause a ground fault for one or more of its conductors. As another example wear of one of the MLEs may cause a ground fault for its conductor.

The system may include provisions to continue operation of a motor of the motor block when a ground fault occurs. However when a ground fault does occur power at the WYE point may be altered. For example where DC power is provided at the WYE point e.g. injected via the choke block when a ground fault occurs current at the WYE point may be unbalanced and alternating. The circuitry block may or may not be capable of deriving power from an unbalanced WYE point and further may or may not be capable of data transmission via an unbalanced WYE point.

The foregoing examples referring to normal and ground fault states demonstrate how ground faults can give rise to various issues. Power cables and MLEs that can resist damaging forces whether mechanical electrical or chemical can help ensure proper operation of a motor circuitry sensors etc. Noting that a faulty power cable or MLE can potentially damage a motor circuitry sensors etc. Further as mentioned an ESP may be located in several kilometers into a wellbore. Accordingly the time and cost to replace a faulty ESP power cable MLE etc. can be substantial.

As to the conductor it may be solid or compacted stranded high purity copper and coated with a metal e.g. tin lead nickel silver or other metal or alloy . As to the conductor shield it may be a semiconductive material with a resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m and be adhered to the conductor to reduce or eliminate voids therebetween. As an example the conductor shield may be provided as an extruded polymer that penetrates into spaces between strands of the stranded conductor . As to extrusion of the conductor shield it may optionally be co extruded or tandem extruded with the insulation e.g. which may be EPDM . As an option nanoscale fillers may be included for low resistivity and suitable mechanical properties e.g. for high temperature thermoplastics .

As to the Insulation it may be bonded to the conductor shield . As an example the insulation may include PEEK or EPDM. Where suitable PEEK may be selected to provide for improved thermal cycling.

As to the insulation shield it may be a semiconductive material having a resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m. The insulation shield may be adhered to the insulation but for example removable for splicing without leaving any substantial amounts of residue. As an example the insulation shield may be extruded polymer for example co extruded with the insulation .

As to the metallic shield it may be or include lead as lead tends to be resistant to downhole fluids and gases. One or more lead layers may be provided for example to create an impermeable gas barrier.

As to the cable jacket it may be round or as shown in an alternative example rectangular e.g. flat . As to material of construction a cable jacket may include one or more layers of EPDM nitrile HNBR fluoropolymer chloroprene or other material e.g. to provide for resistance to a downhole and or other environment . As an example each conductor assembly phase may include solid metallic tubing such that splitting out the phases is more easily accomplished e.g. to terminate at a connector to provide improved cooling etc. .

As to the cable armor and metal or metal alloy may be employed optionally in multiple layers for improved damage resistance.

A power cable for artificial lift equipment can include one or more conductor assemblies each including a copper conductor e.g. solid stranded compacted stranded etc. a conductor shield with resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m surrounding the conductor insulation an insulation shield having a resistivity less than 5000 ohm m surrounding the insulation a metallic shield surrounding the insulation shield and a polymer barrier surrounding the metallic shield. Such a cable may include a jacket molded about the one or more conductor assemblies and optionally armor surrounding the jacket.

A power cable for downhole equipment can include a copper conductor e.g. optionally solid a conductor shield with resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m surrounding the conductor insulation e.g. optionally EPDM or PEEK an insulation shield having a resistivity less than about 5000 ohm m surrounding the insulation a metallic shield surrounding the insulation shield a polymer barrier surrounding the metallic shield a braided layer surrounding the metallic shield and armor surrounding the braided layer.

As to a braid of a braided layer various types of materials may be used such as for example polyethylene terephthalate PET e.g. applied as a protective braid tape fabric wrap etc. . PET may be considered as a low cost and high strength material. As an example a braid layer can help provide protection to a soft lead jacket during an armor wrapping process. In such an example once downhole the function of the braid may be minimal. As to other examples nylon or glass fiber tapes and braids may be implemented. Yet other examples can include fabrics rubberized tapes adhesive tapes and thin extruded films.

As an example a conductor e.g. solid or stranded may be surrounded by a semiconductive material layer that acts as a conductor shield where for example the layer has a thickness greater than approximately 0.005 inch. As an example a cable can include a conductor with a conductor shield that has a radial thickness of approximately 0.010 inch. As an example a cable can include a conductor with a conductor shield that has a radial thickness in a range from greater than approximately 0.005 inch to approximately 0.015 inch.

As an example a conductor may have a conductor size in a range from approximately 8 AWG e.g. OD approx. 0.128 inch or area of approx. 8.36 mm to approximately 2 0 00 AWG e.g. OD approx. 0.365 inch or area of approx. 33.6 mm . As examples a conductor configuration may be solid or stranded e.g. including compact stranded . As an example a conductor may be smaller than 8 AWG or larger than 2 0 00 AWG e.g. 3 0 000 AWG OD approx. 0.41 inch or area of approx. 85 mm .

As an example one or more layers of a cable may be made of a material that is semiconductive e.g. a semiconductor . Such a layer e.g. or layers may include a polymer or polymer blend with one or more conductive fillers e.g. carbon black graphene carbon nanotubes etc. and optionally one or more additives e.g. elastomer compound components process aids etc. . For example a layer may include a polyolefin polymer e.g. EPDM etc. and a graphite filler e.g. expanded graphite etc. . U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0149363 which is incorporated by reference herein describes various types of semiconducting polymer compositions that include a polyolefine polymer and expanded graphite. As an example a layer may include a PAEK polymer and a graphite filler e.g. expanded graphite etc. . For example a layer may include PEEK as a thermoplastic and a graphite filler e.g. expanded graphite etc. . As an example a layer may include a fluoropolymer and a graphite filler e.g. expanded graphite etc. .

As an example a cable may include a conductor that has a size within a range of approximately 0.1285 inch to approximately 0.414 inch and a conductor shield layer that has a radial thickness within a range of approximately greater than 0.005 inch to approximately 0.015 inch.

As an example a cable may include a conductor with a conductor shield e.g. a semiconductor layer and insulation e.g. an insulation layer where the conductor shield and the insulation are extruded. For example the conductor shield may be extruded onto the conductor followed by extrusion of the insulation onto the conductor shield. Such a process may be performed for example using a co extrusion a sequential extrusion etc.

As an example an insulation shield e.g. an insulator shield layer may be extruded onto insulation after the insulation has been extruded onto a conductor shield e.g. with an appropriate delay to allow for hardening of the insulation . In such a manner the insulation shield may be more readily removed from the insulation for example when making cable connections e.g. where stripping of the insulation shield is desired .

As an example a cable may include a conductor shield insulation and an insulation shield that have been extruded separately e.g. by separate extruders with a delay to allow for hardening etc. . As an example a cable may include a conductor shield insulation and insulation shield formed via co extrusion for example using separate extrusion bores that feed to an appropriate cross head extrusion die or dies that deposit the layers in a substantially simultaneous manner e.g. within about a minute or less .

As an example an extrusion process may be controlled to allow for some amount of intermixing at an interface between two layers for example to provide for more complete bonding between the two layers. For example as a conductor shield insulation interface may be subject to high levels of electrical stress an extrusion process may be performed to minimize defects voids contamination etc. via intermixing at the interface e.g. via co extrusion of the two layers . As to an insulation shield as mentioned ease of removal may be beneficial when making connections. Further electrical stresses tend to diminish for layers positioned outside of an insulation layer. As an example a cable with a conductor a conductor shield and insulation e.g. in a non molten state may be fed to an extruder that covers the insulation with a molten semiconductive insulation shield. Such a process may reduce adhesion to a manageable point where the insulation shield can be stripped without damaging the insulation e.g. for splicing cables .

As an example a co extrusion process to extrude multiple layers for a cable may include extrusion of one or more EPDM based materials where after their extrusion they experience some amount of vulcanization that may cross link the materials. For example a conductor shield and insulation may be co extruded in a manner that provides for some cross linking to help eliminate voids between the conductor shield and the insulation. In such an example the process may also help bond the conductor shield and hence the insulation to a conductor. Such a process may produce a cable suited to carry high voltage in terms of reliability. Such a process may also provide one or more other benefits e.g. reduce process time increase the product quality etc. .

In comparison to tape extrusion may provide for a reduction in the overall dimension of a cable e.g. in some oil field applications well clearance may be a concern . Extruded layers tend to be smoother than tape which can help balance out an electrical field. For example a tape layer or layers over a conductor can have laps and rough surfaces that can cause voltage stress points. Taping for adjacent layers via multiple steps may risk possible contamination between the layers. In contrast a co extrusion process may be configured to reduce such contamination. For example co extrusion may help to eliminate voids contamination or rough spots at a conductor shield insulation interface which could create stress points where discharge and cable degradation could occur. Thus for improved reliability smoothness and cleanness a conductor shield may be extruded optionally co extruded with insulation thereon.

As to the method an extruder provides for co extrusion of the materials and onto the conductor as received from the spool . As mentioned a co extrusion process may include multiple extruder bores and a cross head die dies etc. to direct molten material onto a conveyed conductor e.g. which may be bare or may have one or more layers deposited therein . In the methods and the material may be a semiconductor to form a conductor shield and the material may be an insulator to form insulation over the conductor shield. As an example the materials and may be selected to allow for some amount of cross linking at their interfaces upon deposition e.g. in part facilitated by heat energy imparted via extrusion .

As an example the cable produced by the method or the method may be input to the method for deposition of another layer of material thereon. For example material may be provided e.g. in a solid state to an extruder that receives the cable produced by the method or the method where the extruder melts the material and deposits it onto the layer formed by the material . As noted a delay may exist between the method or the method and the method for example to allow for some amount of hardening of at least the layer formed by the material such that stripping of the material may be more readily achieved for purposes of splicing etc. For example where the material forms an insulation shield over the material which may be insulation splicing may involve removal of the insulation shield while maintaining the integrity of the underlying insulation as well as the integrity of an underlying adjacent layer e.g. a conductor shield . Further in such an example cross linking between a conductor shield and insulation as well as extrusion of the conductor shield onto a conductor may provide sufficient interfacial bonding when subject to removal of an insulation shield from the insulation to maintain integrity of the conductor to conductor shield interface and the conductor shield to insulation interface.

In as an example the materials and may be semiconductive materials. As an example the materials and may be the semiconductive same material e.g. a polymer that includes one or more conductive fillers to form a semiconductive composite material .

As an example a metallic shield over an insulation shield may be optional for a cable. For example a cable may include a conductor a conductor shield insulation an insulation shield and one or more barrier layers at least one of which is directly in contact with the insulation shield. As an example a cable may include semiconductive conductor and insulation shields but not include a grounded metallic shield over the semiconductive insulation shield.

As an example one or more methods described herein may include associated computer readable storage media CRM blocks. Such blocks can include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions.

According to an embodiment one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to output information for controlling a process. For example such instructions may provide for output to sensing process an injection process drilling process an extraction process an extrusion process a pumping process a heating process etc.

According to an embodiment components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

Although only a few examples have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the examples. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. It is the express intention of the applicant not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 for any limitations of any of the claims herein except for those in which the claim expressly uses the words means for together with an associated function.

