---

title: Log rest with rack and pinion system
abstract: A new log support and clamp system (log rest) for a portable sawmill, having a log rest and a log dog. The log rest features a rack and pinion for adjusting a vertical position of the log rest using an actuation mechanism located on the operator's side of the portable sawmill, which improves the ability of the user to affix the log in place for sawing. Also, a portable sawmill having such a log rest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09102074&OS=09102074&RS=09102074
owner: Norwood Industries Inc.
number: 09102074
owner_city: Kilworthy, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20131021
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to Canadian Patent Application No. 2 806 456 filed Jan. 24 2013 under the title LOG REST WITH RACK AND PINION SYSTEM.

The content of the above patent application is hereby expressly incorporated by reference into the detailed description hereof.

The present invention relates to a new log support system log rest for a portable sawmill. The log rest features a rack and pinion mechanism which improves the ability of the user to raise and lower the log rest from the operator s side of the portable sawmill.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 784 941 describes a portable sawmill in which the functions of adjusting a cut and making a cut are divided between two separate devices. The invention discloses a vertical chain saw ideally operated in an upward direction. The patent also discloses a log restraint system comprising a setwork having a headstock and a lockable L shaped log dog joined by a clamp which is locked with a lever.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 243 892 discloses a portable sawmill with a frame base and an inverted U shaped frame supported by a carriage rolling along side tracks defined by the frame base. In use the log is placed on the U shaped frame and clamped with a tubular clamp held within a sleeve and locked in place using threaded blocks.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 640 170 discloses a portable saw mill with a frame that surrounds the log. The frame is dragged or slid along a frame supporting surface. The frame holds a chain saw at the two ends of its blade in horizontal fashion with chain saw support members. The invention uses sliding means for facilitating the movement of the frame over the log. The log is secured against rolling using a simple jig or similar means.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 275 632 describes a portable sawmill comprising a U shaped support or carriage holding a band saw. When in use a log is placed between the two guide rails and is supported in place by appropriately distanced log supports.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 307 641 describes a portable sawmill comprising two skid rails vertical support members a pair of guide rails. The log is held in place by two externally threaded log screw pins with pointed ends.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 300 428 describes a portable sawmill having a frame a guide member mounted above the frame and a carriage. The chain saw is mounted above the log and operates at about a 45 degree angle to the horizontal. The log is held in place with log dogs which are adapted for hooking the log and holding it in position.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 235 140 describes a saw mill. The logs are held in place with a standard log dog attached to the cross members on which the log is placed.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 965 788 describes a saw guide for use with a vertically operated portable chain saw. The saw guide apparatus is attached directly to the log.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 926 086 describes a portable saw mill that uses a complex pulley system to move the chain saw and supporting platform. When in use a log is placed and clamped between the guide rails using a set of circular discs eccentrically oriented on a rod.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 695 316 describes a portable timber milling jig that uses a carriage holding a chain saw axially surrounding a square guide rail. The chain saw is held at an approximately 45 degree angle and only uses one guide rail and utilizes ball bearings on the carriage to move the carriage with respect to the guide rail. When in use a log is placed under the guide rail and fixed using clamping points driven into the center of the log to which support clamps are fastened.

Canadian Patent No. 1 200 180 describes a portable saw mill comprising a frame with a guide rail and a carriage moveable along the guide rail. A band saw is supported by the carriage. The carriage is moveable along the guide rail along two sets of wheels one engaged with the upper side of the guide rail and the other with the lower side. The log is held in place by its own weight or by stops and a traditional locking dog.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 245 535 describes a portable sawmill with an elaborate hydraulic apparatus for cutting a log. The chain saw cuts in a vertical motion. The log is held in place using a log holding assembly having a toothed prod which grips the outer end of the log and a cylinder which impales the inner end of the log with a ram forcing the outer end against the prod.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 210 049 describes an x frame for holding a log with a chain saw affixed to the frame in cantilever position for cutting logs crosswise. The log is held in the nook of the x frame.

Canadian patent application 2 541 734 describes a portable sawmill that is easily displaceable easily assembled and disassembled into portable components and which can use generic components as its saw and or guide rails. The log is held in place using traditional log dogs.

Canadian patent application 2 687 623 describes a log support system log rest for a portable sawmill. The log rest features a ratcheting adjustable clamp which allows a user to affix the log in place for sawing. To lower the log rest a pawl is disengaged from the log the log rest is manually lowered and the pawl is re engaged.

In all cases the log rest is on the opposite side of the log from the log dog. Accordingly when the sawmill bed is wide two operators are required to adjust the log rest and log dog or the operator must lean over the bed and log which can inconvenient if not dangerous or the operator must walk around the log. Leaning over also strains the back. Walking around is time consuming. As the log rest and log dog must be lowered as the top of the log is removed by cuts this task must be repeated multiple times.

The present invention provides a log support and clamp assembly for use in a portable sawmill comprising a horizontal support beam having two ends for affixing to a sawmill. A log dog having a vertical portion generally perpendicular to said horizontal support beam and extending upwards therefrom and a top end having a pick protruding therefrom. A log rest assembly having a clamp housing affixed to said support beam and horizontally displaceable thereto a post connected to or housed within said clamp housing said post configured in a generally vertical direction and said clamp housing having a rack and pinion mechanism for raising the post relative to the horizontal support beam.

In one embodiment the rack and pinion mechanism includes a tensioned chain attached to the log rest assembly and a ratcheted wheel attached to the clamp housing for engaging teeth on the tensioned chain.

In an embodiment the log support and clamp assembly further includes an actuation mechanism having a second ratcheted wheel attached at one side of the sawmill opposite of the log rest assembly a rotatable shaft extending between the sides of a sawmill for connecting the ratcheted wheel to the second ratcheted wheel and a handle attached to the second ratcheted wheel for actuating the ratcheted wheel. Rotation of the handle causes the ratcheted wheel to traverse the chain thereby raising or lowering the vertical position of the post. For example the handle may be rotated in a clockwise direction to lower the vertical position of the post and may be rotated in a counterclockwise direction to raise the vertical position of the post.

In an embodiment the log support and clamp assembly includes a pawl having a tooth for engagement with a notch of the second ratcheted wheel where the pawl locks the vertical position of the post.

In one embodiment the log support and clamp assembly can be in an unlocked position the log dog horizontally displaceable along the horizontal support beam and in a locked position the log dog horizontally non displaceable along the horizontal support beam. In another embodiment in an unlocked position the log dog is vertically displaceable relative to the horizontal support beam and in a locked position the log dog is vertically non displaceable relative to the horizontal support beam.

Optionally the log dog has a log dog handle extending at an upwards angle from the top end. There are many forms of log dogs which can be used in association with the present invention.

The present invention also teaches a portable sawmill comprising the log support and clamp assembly as well as a kit for retrofitting a log support and clamp assembly to a portable sawmill.

The present invention provides a simple versatile cost effective and portable log support system for a sawmill such as a portable sawmill. The system provides exemplary fixing of the log onto the mill bed and allows for a user to clamp the log in place utilizing only one hand and from the operator s side of the portable sawmill. This permits the user to use the other hand to stabilize the log until the log rest is moved into the desired position using the rack and pinion mechanism and the log clamped between the log rest and the log dog a cam operated clamp that squeezes the log. The log rest is thus the back stop against which the log is secured and against which the log dog exerts force thereby clamping the log. The log rest thus can be quickly raised or lowered to suit the height of the log being milled. The log rest is raised or lowered by turning a handle at the operator s side of the portable sawmill and the log rest locks in place with a pawl located at the other side of the portable sawmill. The log rest can lock automatically e.g. by spring activation or can be manually locked into position. Thus both the log rest operating mechanism and the log dog are located at the operator s side of the mill bed.

The log rest is particularly suitable for portable sawmills and for use by mill operators particularly those working on their own without assistance. It allows for a highly variable log size to be affixed to it and it allows for a single operator to maneuver the log into place then clamp the log in place using only one hand to actuate the rack and pinion mechanism by a handle located at the operator s side of the portable sawmill. This allows the user to utilize their other hand to stabilize the log greatly improving use and safety of a sawmill for example when a single person in a remote area is sawing logs. The log rest also allows great flexibility in the size of logs being clamped to it thanks to its highly adjustable nature. Notably the log rest can be adjusted to a rough log sizing then fine adjusted for each individual log in an easy one handed manner. The operator using only one hand and staying on the operator s side of the portable sawmill can raise or lower the log rest to suit the log size by releasing the pawl and turning a handle actuating the rack and pinion mechanism. The log rest may be locked in place using the pawl located on the operator s side of the portable sawmill.

The log rest design enables it to be sold as part of a sawmill such as a portable saw mill or as a separate item for retrofitting onto an existing sawmill for example as a kit or an accessory option. The log rest can be manufactured from sturdy reasonably inexpensive materials and permits a high level of configurability for different size logs.

As shown in the log support system comprises a support beam designed to be affixed to a sawmill not shown between sawmill bed rails using sawmill brackets . The sawmill brackets may also be part of sawmill rails . Attached to support beam are log dog and log rest . The design is such that the sawmill brackets can be affixed to opposing sides of the sawmill rails by screwing them thereto utilizing screw holes . As shown in log dog and log rest may then be easily affixed to or removed from the sawmill rails through removal of sawmill bracket pin shown lateral displacement of the support beam through sawmill support opening in bracket then displacement of the log dog and log rest beyond the end of support beam .

As seen in log dog is removably affixed to the support beam through housing front and back which together receive vertical portion . Vertical portion comprises pick and log support may also be referred to as log dog handle at its top end pin limiters at its bottom end and adjustment apertures extending vertically therebetween. Apertures lighten the weight of the log dog . Housing allows vertical displacement of vertical portion in relation to housing and therefore support beam . As seen in housing allows horizontal displacement of log dog in relation to support beam when housing screw is loosened. Vertical portion can thus be displaced vertically within adjustment apertures and can be displaced horizontally along with housing along support beam . When housing screw is tightened housing forms a clamp which affixes the log dog in a horizontal position relative to support beam limiting horizontal displacement relative to support beam . A second housing screw not shown secures log dog in a desired vertical position relative to support beam . Alternatively pin limiters e.g. can secure log dog in a desired vertical position.

Log dog can be removed from support beam by removing pin limiters located at the bottom of the log dog and lifting vertical portion out of housing . Log dog along with housing can also be removed from support beam by removing support beam from sawmill bracket as described above and displacing vertical portion horizontally beyond the end of support beam .

Typically log dog is adjusted horizontally and vertically in relation to support beam each time a log is clamped. The horizontal and vertical positioning will depend on the size of the logs to be cut. For example for larger logs log dog will typically have a horizontal location on support beam that is closer to sawmill bracket as compared to its positioning for smaller logs. With large logs both log dog and log rest will each be as far apart from each other and as close to their respective sawmill rails . Vertical displacement will be such that pick will be further away from support beam for larger logs as compared to smaller logs. Once log dog is adjusted for use finer adjustments for each particular log and clamping the log can be performed using log rest . Typically the user adjusts the log rest then the log dog. Either or both may require finer adjustment. The log dog freely slides vertically and horizontally. Each time a log is clamped adjustments are made on both planes. The adjustment made to the log rest is independent of those made with the log dog. As explained in more detail below an operator first adjusts the log rest and then adjusts the log dog and clamp. The primary similarity in the adjustments made to both the log dog and log rest is that their vertical displacement is dependant on log size.

As seen in log rest comprises log rest housing which is affixed to support beam . Log rest housing comprises clamp housing lock not shown which enables the log rest housing and thus log rest to be affixed to the support beam . Loosening a clamp housing lock not shown allows the log rest housing and thus the entire log rest to be horizontally displaced along support beam .

As seen in log rest housing houses post which can be vertically displaced relative to log rest housing utilizing ratcheting means.

Note that clamp housing lock does not affect vertical displacement of post . Post comprises wheel at its top end which has a rigid cuff . Attached to the rigid cuff is connection and pin to secure the wheel to the rigid cuff . As well the connection extends in one direction to an end . The end of the connection is attached to a securing connection . The bottom of the post also has a securing plate which extends out from the post . A chain is attached or integrally formed at a top end to the securing connection and the bottom end of the chain is attached to the securing plate of the post . The chain is tensioned on both the top end and the bottom end to act as a rack. Alternatives to the chain can be used such as a stamped or cut metal rack with teeth.

As seen in the chain works with a pinion or ratcheted wheel . More particularly the teeth of the ratcheted wheel mesh or engage with teeth on the chain . Log rest housing has support plate and the ratcheted wheel is mounted to the support plate . The ratcheted wheel is connected to a shaft via a universal joint . The shaft may be extendable to vary its length depending on the width between sawmill rails . The universal joint includes a pair of hinges located close together and oriented at ninety degrees to each other. As well the universal joint includes a central cube component that connects the pair of hinges . In another embodiment the pair of hinges may be connected using a cross shaft not shown . Bolts secure the hinges to the central cube component . The universal joint permits the shaft to rotate and hinge as required during actuation of the ratcheted wheel traversing the chain .

As seen in the shaft is connected at a second end to a second ratcheted wheel on the opposite side of the sawmill i.e. the side of rail via a second universal joint located at the operator s side of the sawmill. The second universal joint includes a pair of hinges connected by a central cube component . The pair of hinges are secured to the central cube component via a pair of bolts .

The second ratcheted wheel is mounted to an L shaped bracket connection . A first side of the bracket connection is attached to the bottom of rail with a second side of the bracket connection extending down from the exterior edge of rail . The second ratcheted wheel is mounted to the exterior face of the second side which is on the operator s side of the sawmill. Also on the operator s side there is a handle plate that is connected to the second ratcheted wheel via a cylindrical shaft . One or more handles are attached to the handle plate . The cylindrical shaft passes through an opening on the bracket connection and attaches to a bushing on the interior side of the second side of the bracket connection . A connection component secures the bushing to the second universal joint using a bolt and nut .

A pawl is secured to the exterior face of the second side of the bracket connection using a bolt and washer . The pawl has a ratchet tooth that is adapted to fit into a notch of the second ratcheted wheel . As well the pawl has pawl handle that may be used to move the pawl from a first position to lock the second ratcheted wheel in place to a second position which removes the ratchet tooth from a notch of the second ratcheted wheel . The pawl may be used to lock the second ratcheted wheel in place and thereby locking the vertical position of the log rest housing along post by arresting the rotational movement of . In a preferred embodiment the pawl and notches are configured to allow free movement of the rack and pinion in an upwards counterclockwise motion when the pawl is unlocked.

Handles and pawl thus allow the operator to move the post up or down by releasing the pawl and by rotating the handles . The post may be locked in the selected position by returning the pawl to its engaged position. In operation the handles are rotated to turn the second ratcheted wheel and the cylindrical shaft which rotates the shaft and thereby actuates the ratcheted wheel to move the ratcheted wheel up or down the chain resulting in movement of the post up or down relative to the log rest housing . The handles may be rotated in a clockwise direction to actuate the ratcheted wheel up the chain to lower the vertical position of the post . As well the handles may be rotated in a counterclockwise direction to actuate the ratcheted wheel down the chain to raise the vertical position of the post .

Post may comprise horizontal adjustment bolt not shown which allows for fine tuning of the horizontal location of post relative to support beam even while log rest housing is secured and horizontally affixed to support beam . As previously discussed the lower end of post also comprises the securing plate which prevents the post from so much vertical displacement that it is inadvertently removed out of the top of log rest housing .

The log rest is used as follows. The horizontal and vertical location of log dog relative to support beam and the horizontal position of log rest relative to support beam are set to a desired position based on the size of the logs to be milled. The position is estimated by the user such that the diameter of the log is slightly larger than the distance between the log dog and the log rest . The post is set at its lowest position by releasing the pawl using pawl handle and rotating the handles to actuate the ratcheted wheel to traverse up the chain . The log is placed pushed or rolled against the log rest. Log dog handle is configured such that a downward force on it causes a cam or apertures inside to be forced against the pick which in turn is pressed into the log. The log is rolled onto the log deck and rests on the cross bunks spans between the rails . It is positioned into the area between the log rest and the log dog . The user then displaces the post upwards using the rack and pinion mechanism actuated by handles such that the log rest supports the log but is lower than the path along which the blade will travel. Once post is adjusted for correct height the operator pushes the log against post vertically and horizontally adjusts vertical portion lifts handle pushes log dog against the log lowers handle thereby forcing pick into the log. This allows for clamping of the log between the log dog and the log rest . As the clamping gets tighter pick digs into the side of the log providing more stability. In this manner utilizing handles a user is able to clamp the log between the post and the pick utilizing one hand and while remaining on the operator s side of the sawmill. Log rest housing also comprises square block surface which provides support for post as post presses against the log.

It is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described above but encompasses any and all embodiments within the scope of the following claims.

