---

title: In-store card activation
abstract: A user having an account with a payment provider is able to go to a store or merchant location and pick an unregistered payment card associated with the payment provider. The card may have a magnetic strip encoded with a number unique to the card and a machine readable code, such as a QR/barcode, embossed thereon. The card may or may not have a corresponding number embossed or printed on the card. Once a card is selected, the user may open an application on the user's mobile smart phone or other device to scan or otherwise capture the number associated with the card. The user may scan the QR/barcode, take a picture of the number, speak the number into the device, or even manually enter the number into the user's device. The user, either before or after the number capture, also authenticates with the payment provider, such as by entering login credentials, which may include a password/PIN and a user identifier if needed. The user may then confirm a request to associate or link the scanned card with the user's payment provider account. Once done, the card is now activated and linked to the user account so that the user can immediately use the card for purchases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330384&OS=09330384&RS=09330384
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09330384
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130628
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e this application claims priority to the filing date of U.S. Provisional Pat. Application Ser. No. 61 696 593 filed Sep. 4 2012 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present application generally relates to payment cards and in particular to activating payment cards.

Currently users of payment services such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. can obtain a payment card that enables the user to make a purchase at a physical point of sale POS by swiping the payment card through a card reader. Such cards typically have a magnetic strip that allows a POS reader to read information contained in the strip such as a card or account number. This information is communicated to the card provider or other service provider for processing the payment.

Typically a user is sent a card through the mail with an embossed account number as well as a magnetic strip encoded with the account number. Because the card is mailed it may take the user several days to receive the card resulting in a delay for the user to use the card for payments.

In one embodiment a user having an account with a payment provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. is able to go to a store or merchant location and pick an unregistered payment card associated with the payment provider. The card may have a magnetic strip encoded with a number unique to the card and a machine readable code such as a QR barcode embossed thereon. The card may or may not have a corresponding number embossed or printed on the card. Once a card is selected the user may open an application on the user s mobile smart phone or other device to scan or otherwise capture the number associated with the card. For example the user may scan the QR barcode take a picture of the number speak the number into the device or even manually enter the number into the user s device. The user either before or after the number capture also authenticates with the payment provider such as by entering login credentials which may include a password PIN and a user identifier if needed. The user may then confirm a request to associate or link the scanned card with the user s payment provider account. Once done the card is now activated and linked to the user account so that the user can immediately use the card for purchases which is different from gift cards in stores that require the user to activate during checkout or payment with no association to a payment account.

Once the user selects a card which can be any available payment card at the store the user scans or otherwise captures information from the card at step . For example the user may scan the QR barcode with a user device such as a smart phone. The user may also take a picture of a printed or embossed number or enter the number manually by keyboard or voice. In other embodiments the user may enter a URL with a code associated with the card.

At step the user accesses the user s account with the payment provider. Note that steps and may be performed in different orders or combined. Accessing the account may include the user entering a PIN or password along with a user identifier if needed. In one embodiment the user opens a mobile application for the payment provider and enters in the user PIN password. The user identifier may already be available through the mobile device but if not the user may also be asked to enter a user name email address phone number or other user identifier. This allows the payment provider to access the user s account. If the user has not set a mobile PIN the user may be requested to create one or a mobile PIN may be created by the payment provider such as through the user password.

After the payment provider has located and accessed the user s account at step the user may see a message asking the user to confirm activating the just scanned card. The message may be through a push notification through an email or other text message delivered to the user device used to communicate the card information at step . The message may also be communicated by voice such as through a voice message or call to the user device. Confirmation may be communicated back to the service provider in any number of suitable ways such as but not limited to selecting a button e.g. confirm yes activate etc. or checking a box from the user device display sending a text message or through voice such as a call to the payment provider.

Once confirmed the card can now be used to make a purchase at the store or other stores. For example at step the user may use the card by taking desired items from the store to a checkout area having the items totaled and scanning the card either before during or after the items are totaled. The user may swipe the card through a card reader at the point of sale or checkout area and enter a PIN or password on the POS device. The card information is communicated to the payment provider who then processes the payment through the user s payment provider account. As discussed below the card may have associated incentives or other funding instruments associated with it such that any applicable incentives may be automatically applied to the purchase. In other embodiments the user may be notified that there are incentives available for use with the purchase and asked which one s the user wishes to use for this transaction. Non used incentives may be kept pending for future payment transactions based on eligibility such as expiration date and other incentive conditions.

As a result a payment provider user is able to quickly and easily activate a payment card in a store and make a purchase immediately. This eliminates the need for the user to wait for a card in the mail or go through an activation process at checkout.

In other embodiments card information may include incentive information used to incentivize the user to use activate the card. The incentive information may be a credit to the user s payment provider account credit applied to a purchase at the store of activation or any other desirable incentive. For example specific store coupons general rebates credits manufacturer coupons etc. may be part of the card information so that the various incentives may be downloaded or applied to the user s account upon card activation.

After card information is received a determination is made at step whether the card is valid or authentic. The payment provider may search its database to determine whether the received card identifier matches with a card actually issued by the payment provider. An invalid card may a counterfeit card that does not have the proper security code one that does not have a match with the payment provider which may be due to an improper card identification capture or a card that has already been activated and associated with another user s account. In another example an invalid card may be the result of a location mismatch. The card identifier may be associated with a card for Store A at 123 Main Street Los Angeles Calif. but the identifier may be transmitted from a user device in New York or somewhere outside the U.S. In that case the payment system may determine the card cannot be validated at this time.

Depending on the reason for invalidity the payment provider may take appropriate action such as informing the user to select another card and return the current card to the store or clerk or request the user to capture the card identification again. If the payment provider does not receive card information for a valid card determination the activation process may be terminated.

At step the payment provider receives user information which may include a PIN or password and a user identifier such as an email address user name or phone number if needed. The user identifier may not be needed if a suitable identifier is communicated automatically e.g. without user entry through the user device such as a phone number or device ID. The user information may be received through a mobile app on the user device.

The user information is used to determine at step whether a valid account exists corresponding to the user information. If an account associated with the user identifier is found but the password PIN is incorrect the user may be asked to reenter and send user information such as the password PIN. If an account was found but the account is inactive such as an expired funding source the user may be asked to update information such as an expiration date to reopen or activate the account at step . If no account is found the user may be asked to open or create an account at step by entering or providing requested information such as a user name password PIN funding source information etc. Note that the sequence of steps and may be interchanged such that the user first accesses or opens an account and then scans or captures payment card information.

Once the scanned card is found valid and the user has a valid account with the payment provider the payment provider may optionally request whether the user wishes to activate or link the card to the user s account. This may be communicated electronically to the user device in the form of a text message or display having a button field or link the user can select to indicate confirmation. Voice notification may also be suitable.

If the user confirms the card is activated at step . Activation may include storing card information with other information in the user s account. As such when the user scans the card for a payment the card information along with authentication information such as a password PIN can be communicated to the payment provider. The payment provider may then process a payment on behalf of the user. Note that one or more steps described herein may be omitted combined or performed in a different sequence as desired.

In one embodiment the card identifier number is the same as the card number used by merchants and the payment provider for making a payment i.e. the card identifier contained in the QR code barcode is the same as what is contained in the magnetic strip NFC chip or embossed printed card number. In another embodiment the card identifier is different than the actual card number. Thus the card identifier may be used simply to initially identify and activate the card while the card number such as contained in a magnetic strip NFC chip or embossed printed on the card is used to identify the user account in payment transactions.

By allowing a payment provider to supply locations with unactivated payment cards that can be easily activated by user s through their mobile device payment providers may save on costs of mailing activated cards to user save time on processing individual cards and reach more current and potential account holders to use the payment card for purchases.

In other embodiments the card may be activated at the POS such as by scanning the card and using the card at the POS. In this case the merchant may get credit for selling the card with the merchant able to charge the user a fee such as 2 for purchasing the card. The payment provider may provide the user with a credit in the amount of the fee e.g. 2 such that the user is made whole but the merchant still receives a bonus for selling the card at the merchant location.

User device and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser or mobile browser configured to view information available over the Internet such as account information from the payment provider. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application as further described herein.

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate and transfer information through and with the payment provider as discussed above. User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide information to and receive information from user such as for making payments and other payment related services. In this regard payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device over network to facilitate sending payments on behalf of user of user device .

Payment provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with consumers merchants and funding sources such as credit card companies. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information payment provider issued card information or other information which may be used to facilitate transactions by user .

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive information from a user device for processing and storage in a payment database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from user for processing a payment or transfer using various selected funding instruments or cards including a card issued by the payment provider. As such transaction processing application may store details of payment transfer from individual users including funding source s used credit options available etc. to other individuals or entities. Payment application may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary such as the set up and management payments by the user.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as one or more processing components e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. one or more system memory components e.g. RAM one or more static storage components e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball and or a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor s executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in memory component s or such as described herein with respect to the user device and or the payment provider device. Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component s or or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component s or and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by a communication link to network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and network interface component . Network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor s as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

