---

title: Compounds for the treatment of autism in a baby child
abstract: The invention relates to a compound which inhibits the importation of chloride into neurons or a compound which improve the outflow of chloride from neurons for use in the treatment of autism in a baby or a fetus in need thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09592214&OS=09592214&RS=09592214
owner: CHU DE BREST
number: 09592214
owner_city: Brest
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20131122
---
The invention relates to a compound which inhibits the importation of chloride into neurons or a compound which improve the outflow of chloride from neurons for use in the treatment of autism in a baby or a fetus.

Autism Spectrum Disorder ASD is a developmental disorder characterized by restricted interest and communication impairment generated by genetic and environmental factors. The delivery period is instrumental in the pathogenesis of autism with complications during delivery and or cesarean sections enhancing its incidence Hultman et al. Epidemiology 13 417 2002 Guinchat et al. Acta Obstetricia et Gynecologica Scandinavica 91 287 2012 . Also alterations of oxytocin signals that trigger labor and are instrumental for communication notably parental infant interactions favor autism Pobbe et al. Hormones and Behavior 61 436 2012 . Yet in spite of these observations the properties of immature autistic neurons before and shortly after delivery are presently unknown.

Brain maturation is associated with a developmental sequential expression of voltage gated receptor synapse driven channels and brain patterns Spitzer et al. 1994 Ben Ari et al. 2007 . The developmental shifts of the actions of the inhibitory transmitter GABA is but one example of these changes. Immature neurons have a higher intracellular chloride concentration Cl than adults leading to paradoxical excitatory actions of GABA Ben Ari et al. Nat Rev Neurosci. 2002 September 3 9 728 39 Ben Ari et al. Physiol Rev. 2007 October 87 4 1215 84 . This is due to an early expression of the co transporter NKCC1 that imports chloride and a late operation of KCC2 that export chloride form neurons Ben Ari et al. Nat Rev Neurosci. 2002 September 3 9 728 39 . In addition the regulation of Cl is dynamic and altered by even brief episodes of enhanced activity and more persistently by a variety of insults lesions seizures and neurological disorders Khalilov I et al. 2003 Nat Neurosci 6 1079 1085 Khalilov I et al. 2005 48 787 796 .

The applicant already disclosed the use of NKCC inhibitors for the treatment of autism in children WO2011 086126 but surprisingly the inventors also discovered that treating a fetus before delivery or a baby could also treat ASD.

Indeed the applicant characterized for the first time the cellular and network alterations that occur during the transition from fetal to post natal life and subsequently in an animal model of autism the Valproate in utero model VPA . The applicants results stress the importance of events during delivery in the pathogenesis of autism and suggest that early diagnosis combined with the treatment with a modulator of chloride importation will be instrumental in preventing the deleterious cycle leading to autism.

One object of the invention is a method for treating a subject presenting Autistic Syndrome Disorders ASD wherein said method comprises the administration of an effective amount of a modulator of a chloride transporter and wherein said subject is a human embryo a human fetus a new born child or a young child.

In one embodiment said modulator is an inhibitor of a transporter involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

In another embodiment said modulator is an inhibitor of the expression of a transporter involved in the importation of chloride into neurons preferably is siRNAs shRNAs antisense oligonucleotide ribozymes or aptamers of a chloride transporter involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

In another embodiment said modulator is an inhibitor of the activity of a transporter involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

In another embodiment said modulator is an inhibitor of the transporter NKCC selected from the group comprising bumetanide furosemide ethacrynic acid torsemide azosemide muzolimine piretanide tripamide and analogs functional derivatives and or prodrugs thereof thiazide and thiazide like diuretics such as bendroflumethiazide benzthiazide chlorothiazide hydrochlorothiazide hydro flumethiazide methylclothiazide polythiazide trichlormethiazide chlorthalidone indapamide metolazone and quinethazone analogs and or functional derivatives and or prodrugs thereof.

In another embodiment the modulator of a chloride transporter is administered directly to the subject in need thereof by subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraocular transdermal topical parenteral intranasal and oral administration or injection.

In another embodiment the modulator of a chloride transporter is administered perinatally to the subject.

In another embodiment the modulator of a chloride transporter is administered to a pregnant woman by subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraocular transdermal topical parenteral intranasal and oral administration or injection preferably in utero.

Another object is a method for treating Autistic Syndrome Disorders ASD in a subject in need thereof wherein the chloride importation within neurons is inhibited in the subject the subject being a human embryo a human fetus a new born child or a young child.

This invention relates to a method for treating a subject presenting Autistic Syndrome Disorders ASD wherein said method comprises the administration of an effective amount of a modulator of a chloride transporter and wherein said subject is a human embryo a human fetus or new born child.

In one embodiment of the invention the modulator of intracellular chloride concentration is a modulator of a chloride transporter.

In one embodiment of the invention the modulator of intracellular chloride concentration is a selective modulator of a chloride transporter.

In one embodiment the modulator of a chloride transporter inhibits the importation of chloride into neurons preferably through the inhibition of transporters involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

In another embodiment the selective modulator of a chloride transporter inhibits the importation of chloride into neurons preferably through the inhibition of transporters involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

In one embodiment of the invention said modulator is an inhibitor of the chloride transporter involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

In another embodiment of the invention said modulator is a selective inhibitor of the chloride transporter involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

In one embodiment of the invention said modulator is an inhibitor of the protein and or gene expression of a transporter involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

In another embodiment of the invention said modulator is a selective inhibitor of the protein and or gene expression of a transporter involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

Examples of transporters involved in the importation of chloride into neurons include but are not limited to NKCC wherein NKCC stands for Na K 2Cl co transporter such as for example NKCC1. In one embodiment the modulator of a chloride transporter is thus an inhibitor of NKCC preferably of NKCC1. In another embodiment the modulator of a chloride transporter is a selective inhibitor of NKCC preferably of NKCC1.

In one embodiment of the invention the inhibitor of a chloride transporter inhibits the expression of said chloride transporter. Examples of inhibitors of the expression of a chloride transporter include but are not limited to siRNAs shRNAs anti sense oligonucleotide ribozymes or aptamers of a chloride transporter.

In another embodiment of the invention the selective inhibitor of a chloride transporter is an aptamer. Aptamers are a class of molecule that represents an alternative to antibodies in term of molecular recognition. Aptamers are oligonucleotide or oligopeptide sequences with the capacity to recognize virtually any class of target molecules with high affinity and specificity. Such ligands may be isolated through Systematic Evolution of Ligands by EXponential enrichment SELEX of a random sequence library as described in Tuerk C. and Gold L. 1990. The random sequence library is obtainable by combinatorial chemical synthesis of DNA. In this library each member is a linear oligomer eventually chemically modified of a unique sequence. Possible modifications uses and advantages of this class of molecules have been reviewed in Jayasena S. D. 1999. Peptide aptamers consists of a conformationally constrained antibody variable region displayed by a platform protein such as Thioredoxin A that are selected from combinatorial libraries by two hybrid methods Colas et al. 1996 .

Then after raising aptamers directed against the chloride transporter as above described the skilled man in the art can easily select those blocking chloride importation. Inhibitors of chloride transporter gene expression for use in the present invention may be based on anti sense oligonucleotide constructs. Anti sense oligonucleotides including anti sense RNA molecules and anti sense DNA molecules would act to directly block the translation of chloride transporter mRNA by binding thereto and thus preventing protein translation or increasing mRNA degradation thus decreasing the level of chloride transporter and thus activity in a cell. For example anti sense oligonucleotides of at least about 15 bases and complementary to unique regions of the mRNA transcript sequence encoding chloride transporter can be synthesized e.g. by conventional phosphodiester techniques and administered by e.g. intravenous injection or infusion. Methods for using antisense techniques for specifically inhibiting gene expression of genes whose sequence is known are well known in the art e.g. see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 566 135 6 566 131 6 365 354 6 410 323 6 107 091 6 046 321 and 5 981 732 .

Small inhibitory RNAs siRNAs can also function as inhibitors of chloride transporter gene expression for use in the present invention. Chloride transporter gene expression can be reduced by contacting a subject or cell with a small double stranded RNA dsRNA or a vector or construct causing the production of a small double stranded RNA such that chloride transporter gene expression is specifically inhibited i.e. RNA interference or RNAi . Methods for selecting an appropriate dsRNA or dsRNA encoding vector are well known in the art for genes whose sequence is known e.g. see Tuschl T. et al. 1999 Elbashir S. M. et al. 2001 Hannon G J. 2002 McManus M T. et al. 2002 Brummelkamp T R. et al. 2002 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 573 099 and 6 506 559 and International Patent Publication Nos. WO 01 36646 WO 99 32619 and WO 01 68836 .

Ribozymes can also function as inhibitors of chloride transporter gene expression for use in the present invention. Ribozymes are enzymatic RNA molecules capable of catalyzing the specific cleavage of RNA. The mechanism of ribozyme action involves sequence specific hybridization of the ribozyme molecule to complementary target RNA followed by endonucleolytic cleavage. Engineered hairpin or hammerhead motif ribozyme molecules that specifically and efficiently catalyze endonucleolytic cleavage of chloride transporter mRNA sequences are thereby useful within the scope of the present invention. Specific ribozyme cleavage sites within any potential RNA target are initially identified by scanning the target molecule for ribozyme cleavage sites which typically include the following sequences GUA GUU and GUC. Once identified short RNA sequences of between about 15 and 20 ribonucleotides corresponding to the region of the target gene containing the cleavage site can be evaluated for predicted structural features such as secondary structure that can render the oligonucleotide sequence unsuitable. The suitability of candidate targets can also be evaluated by testing their accessibility to hybridization with complementary oligonucleotides using e.g. ribonuclease protection assays.

Both antisense oligonucleotides and ribozymes useful as inhibitors of chloride transporter gene expression can be prepared by known methods. These include techniques for chemical synthesis such as e.g. by solid phase phosphoramadite chemical synthesis. Alternatively anti sense RNA molecules can be generated by in vitro or in vivo transcription of DNA sequences encoding the RNA molecule. Such DNA sequences can be incorporated into a wide variety of vectors that incorporate suitable RNA polymerase promoters such as the T7 or SP6 polymerase promoters. Various modifications to the oligonucleotides of the invention can be introduced as a means of increasing intracellular stability and half life. Possible modifications include but are not limited to the addition of flanking sequences of ribonucleotides or deoxyribonucleotides to the 5 and or 3 ends of the molecule or the use of phosphorothioate or 2 O methyl rather than phosphodiesterase linkages within the oligonucleotide backbone.

Antisense oligonucleotides siRNAs and ribozymes of the invention may be delivered in vivo alone or in association with a vector. In its broadest sense a vector is any vehicle capable of facilitating the transfer of the antisense oligonucleotide siRNA or ribozyme nucleic acid to the cells and preferably cells expressing a chloride transporter. Preferably the vector transports the nucleic acid to cells with reduced degradation relative to the extent of degradation that would result in the absence of the vector. In general the vectors useful in the invention include but are not limited to plasmids phagemids viruses other vehicles derived from viral or bacterial sources that have been manipulated by the insertion or incorporation of the antisense oligonucleotide siRNA or ribozyme nucleic acid sequences. Viral vectors are a preferred type of vector and include but are not limited to nucleic acid sequences from the following viruses retrovirus such as moloney murine leukemia virus harvey murine sarcoma virus murine mammary tumor virus and rouse sarcoma virus adenovirus adeno associated virus SV40 type viruses polyoma viruses Epstein Barr viruses papilloma viruses herpes virus vaccinia virus polio virus and RNA virus such as a retrovirus. One can readily employ other vectors not named but known to the art.

Preferred viral vectors are based on non cytopathic eukaryotic viruses in which non essential genes have been replaced with the gene of interest. Non cytopathic viruses include retroviruses e.g. lentivirus the life cycle of which involves reverse transcription of genomic viral RNA into DNA with subsequent proviral integration into host cellular DNA. Retroviruses have been approved for human gene therapy trials. Most useful are those retroviruses that are replication deficient i.e. capable of directing synthesis of the desired proteins but incapable of manufacturing an infectious particle . Such genetically altered retroviral expression vectors have general utility for the high efficiency transduction of genes in vivo. Standard protocols for producing replication deficient retroviruses including the steps of incorporation of exogenous genetic material into a plasmid transfection of a packaging cell lined with plasmid production of recombinant retroviruses by the packaging cell line collection of viral particles from tissue culture media and infection of the target cells with viral particles are provided in Kriegler 1990 and in Murry 1991 .

Preferred viruses for certain applications are the adeno viruses and adeno associated viruses which are double stranded DNA viruses that have already been approved for human use in gene therapy. The adeno associated virus can be engineered to be replication deficient and is capable of infecting a wide range of cell types and species. It further has advantages such as heat and lipid solvent stability high transduction frequencies in cells of diverse lineages including hemopoietic cells and lack of superinfection inhibition thus allowing multiple series of transductions. Reportedly the adeno associated virus can integrate into human cellular DNA in a site specific manner thereby minimizing the possibility of insertional mutagenesis and variability of inserted gene expression characteristic of retroviral infection. In addition wild type adeno associated virus infections have been followed in tissue culture for greater than 100 passages in the absence of selective pressure implying that the adeno associated virus genomic integration is a relatively stable event. The adeno associated virus can also function in an extrachromosomal fashion.

Other vectors include plasmid vectors. Plasmid vectors have been extensively described in the art and are well known to those of skill in the art. See e.g. Sambrook et al. 1989. In the last few years plasmid vectors have been used as DNA vaccines for delivering antigen encoding genes to cells in vivo. They are particularly advantageous for this because they do not have the same safety concerns as with many of the viral vectors. These plasmids however having a promoter compatible with the host cell can express a peptide from a gene operatively encoded within the plasmid. Some commonly used plasmids include pBR322 pUC18 pUC19 pRC CMV SV40 and pBlueScript. Other plasmids are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Additionally plasmids may be custom designed using restriction enzymes and ligation reactions to remove and add specific fragments of DNA. Plasmids may be delivered by a variety of parenteral mucosal and topical routes. For example the DNA plasmid can be injected by intramuscular intradermal subcutaneous or other routes. It may also be administered by intranasal sprays or drops rectal suppository and orally. It may also be administered into the epidermis or a mucosal surface using a gene gun. The plasmids may be given in an aqueous solution dried onto gold particles or in association with another DNA delivery system including but not limited to liposomes dendrimers cochleate and microencapsulation.

In another embodiment the inhibitor of a chloride transporter inhibits the activity of the chloride transporter. Examples of such inhibitors include but are not limited to small molecules antibodies minibodies diabodies or fragments thereof binding to the chloride transporter and antagonists of the chloride transporter.

In another embodiment the inhibitor of the invention is an antibody the term including antibody fragment that can block the activity of a transporter involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

In particular the inhibitor of the invention may consist in an antibody directed against a transporter involved in the importation of chloride into neurons.

Antibodies directed against said transporter can be raised according to known methods by administering the appropriate antigen or epitope to a host animal selected e.g. from pigs cows horses rabbits goats sheep and mice among others. Various adjuvants known in the art can be used to enhance antibody production. Although antibodies useful in practicing the invention can be polyclonal monoclonal antibodies are preferred. Monoclonal antibodies against said transporter can be prepared and isolated using any technique that provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture. Techniques for production and isolation include but are not limited to the hybridoma technique originally described by Kohler and Milstein 1975 the human B cell hybridoma technique Cote et al. 1983 and the EBV hybridoma technique Cole et al. 1985 . Alternatively techniques described for the production of single chain antibodies see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 can be adapted to produce anti modulator or anti modulator ligands single chain antibodies. Chloride transporter inhibitor useful in practicing the present invention also include anti modulator or anti modulator ligands antibody fragments including but not limited to F ab fragments which can be generated by pepsin digestion of an intact antibody molecule and Fab fragments which can be generated by reducing the disulfide bridges of the F ab fragments. Alternatively Fab and or scFv expression libraries can be constructed to allow rapid identification of fragments having the desired specificity to said transporter.

In another embodiment the inhibitor of the invention can include isomers tautomers zwitterions enantiomers diastereomers racemates or stereochemical mixtures thereof. Inhibitors of the present invention can also comprise isosteres.

The term isosteres as used herein broadly refers to elements functional groups substituents molecules or ions having different molecular formulae but exhibiting similar or identical physical properties. For example tetrazole is an isostere of carboxylic acid because it mimics the properties of carboxylic acid even though they both have different molecular formulae. Typically two isosteric molecules have similar or identical volumes and shapes. Other physical properties that isosteric compounds usually share include boiling point density viscosity and thermal conductivity. However certain properties are usually different dipolar moments polarity polarization size and shape since the external orbitals may be hybridized differently.

The term isomers as used herein refers broadly to compounds having the same number and kind of atoms and hence the same molecular weight but differing with respect to the arrangement or configuration of the atoms in space. Additionally the term isomers includes stereoisomers and geometric isomers. The terms stereoisomer or optical isomer as used herein refer to a stable isomer that has at least one chiral atom or restricted rotation giving rise to perpendicular dissymmetric planes e.g. certain biphenyls allenes and spiro compounds and can rotate plane polarized light. Because asymmetric centers and other chemical structure can exist in some of the compounds of the present invention which may give rise to stereoisomerism the invention contemplates stereoisomers and mixtures thereof. The compounds of the present invention and their salts can include asymmetric carbon atoms and may therefore exist as single stereoisomers racemates and as mixtures of enantiomers and diastereomers. Typically such compounds will be prepared as a racemic mixture. Such compounds can also be prepared or isolated as pure stereoisomers i.e. as individual enantiomers or diastereomers or as stereoisomer enriched mixtures. Tautomers are readily inter convertible constitutional isomers and there is a change in connectivity of a ligand as in the keto and enol forms of ethyl acetoacetate including tautomers of any said compounds. Zwitterions are inner salts or dipolar compounds possessing acidic and basic groups in the same molecule. At neutral pH the cation and anion of most zwitterions are equally ionized.

Examples of such inhibitors include but are not limited to NKCC inhibitors such as for example NKCC antagonists. In one embodiment the modulator is an antagonist of NKCC1. In one embodiment said inhibitor is a selective NKCC inhibitor preferably a selective NKCC1 inhibitor.

In one embodiment of the invention said selective inhibitor interacts directly with the chloride transporter.

In one embodiment said selective inhibitor is an antagonist of a chloride transporter importing chloride into neurons.

In one embodiment of the invention the inhibitor of a chloride transporter is an inhibitor of NKCC1 such as for example a diuretic such as for example a loop diuretic or a NKKC1 antagonist.

In one embodiment of the invention the selective inhibitor decreasing the gene and or protein expression and or activity of the chloride co transporter NKCC1 has a low affinity for KCC2.

In one embodiment of the invention the selective inhibitor of the chloride transporter has an affinity for KCC2 inferior than 10M preferably 10M more preferably less than 10M.

In another embodiment of the invention the selective inhibitor of the chloride transporter has an affinity at least much higher to NKCC1 than to KCC2 of at least 2 orders of magnitude preferably of at least 4 orders of magnitude more preferably of at least 5 orders of magnitude and most preferably of at least 6 orders of magnitude higher binding constant at least 10 preferably more than 10 .

In another embodiment of the invention the selective inhibitor of the chloride transporter does not bind to KCC2 at all.

In one embodiment of the invention the selective inhibitor of the chloride transporter refers to a molecule that has an affinity for the NKCC1 at least 10 fold 25 fold 50 fold 75 fold 80 fold 90 fold 95 fold 100 fold 125 fold 150 fold 200 fold 250 fold 300 fold 350 fold 400 fold 450 fold preferably 500 fold higher than its affinity for any one of other isoforms of NKCC transporters comprising NKCC2 KCC transporters comprising KCC1 KCC2 KCC3 KCC4 other transporter chloride including in a non limiting list ClHCO3transporter.

Examples of inhibitors of a chloride transporter preferably of NKCC1 include but are not limited to bumetanide furosemide ethacrynic acid torsemide azosemide muzolimine piretanide tripamide and analogs functional derivatives and prodrugs of such compounds thiazide and thiazide like diuretics such as bendroflumethiazide benzthiazide chlorothiazide hydrochlorothiazide hydro flumethiazide methylclothiazide polythiazide trichlormethiazide chlorthalidone indapamide metolazone and quinethazone and analogs functional derivatives and prodrugs of such compounds.

Examples of analogs of bumetanide include but are not limited to bumetanide aldehyde bumetanide dibenzylamide bumetanide diethylamide bumetanide morpholinoethyl ester bumetanide 3 dimethylaminopropyl ester bumetanide N N diethylglycolamide ester bumetanide dimethylglycolamide ester bumetanide pivaxetil ester bumetanide methoxy polyethyleneoxy ethyl ester bumetanide benzyltrimethyl ammonium salt bumetanide cetyltrimethylammonium salt pivaloyloxymethyl ester of bumetanide methyl ester of bumetanide N N dimethylaminoethyl ester of bumetanide bumetanide C O SH thioacid bumetanide S methyl thioester bumetanide S cyanotnethyl thioester bumetanide S ethyl thioester bumetanide S isoamyl thioester bumetanide S octyl thioester bumetanide S benzyl thioester bumetanide S morpholinoethyl thioester bumetanide S 3 dimethylaminopropyl thioester bumetanide S N N diethylglycolamido thioester bumetanide S N N dimethylglycolamido thioester bumetanide S pivaxetil thioester bumetanide S propaxetil thioester bumetanide S methoxyipolyethyleneoxy ethyl thioester bumetanide C O S benzyltrimethyl ammonium thioacid salt and bumetanide C O S cetyltrimethylammonium thioacid salt metast able bumetanide thioacid bumetanide thioaldehyde bumetanide O methyl thioester bumetanide O cyanomethyl thioester bumetanide O ethyl thioester bumetanide O isoamyl thioester bumetanide O octyl thioester bumetanide O benzyl thioester bumetanide O morpholinoethyl thioester bumetanide O 3 dimethylaminopropyl J thioester bumetanide O N N diethylglycolamido thioester bumetanide O pivaxetil thioester bumetanide O propaxetil thioester bumetanide O methoxy poryethyleneoxy ethyl thioester bumetanide C S O benzyltrimemyl ammonium thioacid salt and bumetanide C S O cetyltrimethylammonium thioacid salt.

Examples of analogs of furosemide include but are not limited to furosemide aldehyde furosemide ethyl ester furosemide cyanomethyl ester furosemide benzyl ester furosemide morpholinoethyl ester furosemide 3 dimethylaminopropyl ester furosemide N N diethylglycolamide ester furosemide dibenzylamide furosemide benzyltrimethylammonium salt furosemide cetyltrimethylammonium salt furosemide N N dimethylglycolamide ester furosemide methoxy polyethyleneoxy ethyl ester furosemide pivaxetil ester furosemide propaxetil ester furosemide benzyltrimethylammonium acid salt and furosemide cetyltrimethylammonium acid salt furosemide C O SH thioacid furosemide S methyl thioester furosemide S cyanomethyl thioester furosemide S ethyl thioester furosemide S isoamyl thioester furosemide S octyl thioester furosemide S benzyl thioester furosemide S morpholinoethyl thioester furosemide S 3 dimethylaminopropyl thioester furosemide S N N diethylglycolamido thioester furosemide S N N dimethylglycolamido thioester furosemide S pivaxetil thioester furosemide S propaxetil thioester furosemide S methoxy polyethyleneoxy ethyl thioester furosemide C O S benzyltrimethylammonium thioacid salt and furosemide C O S cetyltrimethylammonium thioacid salt metasta stable furosemide C S OH thioacid furosemide O methyl thioester furosemide O cyanomethyl thioester furosemide O ethyl thioester furosemide O isoamyl thioester furosemide O octyl thioester furosemide O benzyl thioester furosemide O morpholinoethyl thioester furosemide O 3 dimethylaminopropyl thioester furosemide O N N diethylglycolamido thioester furosemide O N N dimethylglycolamido thioester furosemide O pivaxetil thioester furosemide O propaxetil thioester furosemide O methoxy polyethyleneoxy ethyl thioester furosemide C S O benzyltrimethyl ammonium thioacid salt and furosemide C S O cetyltrimethylammonium thioacid salt furosemide thioaldehyde furosemide C S SH dithioacid furosemide methyl dithioester furosemide cyanomethyl dithioester furosemide ethyl dithioester furosemide isoamyl di thioester furosemide octyl dithioester furosemide benzyl dithioester furosemide dibenzyl thioamide furosemide diethylthioamide furosemide morpholinoethyl dithioester furosemide 3 dimethylaminopropyl dithioester furosemide N N diethylglycolamido dithioester furosemide N N dimethylglycolamido dithioester furosemide pivaxetil dithioester furosemide propaxetil dithioester furosemide methoxy polyethyleneoxy ethyl dithioester furosemide benzyltrimethylammonium dithioacid salt and furosemide cetyltrimethylammonium dithioacid salt.

Examples of analogs of piretanide include but are not limited to piretanide aldehyde piretanide methyl ester piretanide cyanomethyl ester piretanide benzyl ester piretanide morpholinoethyl ester piretanide 3 dimethylaminopropyl ester piretanide N N diethylglycolamide ester piretanide diethylamide piretanide dibenzylamide piretanide benzylltrimethylammonium salt piretanide cetylltrimethylarnrnonium salt piretanide N N dimethylglycolamide ester piretanide methoxy polyethyleneoxy ethyl ester piretanide pivaxetil ester piretanide propaxetil ester piretanide C O SH thioacid piretanide S methyl thioester piretanide S cyanomethyl thioester piretanide S ethyl thioester piretanide S isoamyl thioester piretanide S octyl thioester piretanide S benzyl thioester piretanide S morpholinoethyl thioester piretanide S 3 dimethylaminopropyl thioester piretanide S N N diethylglycolamido thioester piretanide S N N dimethylglycolamido thioester piretanide S pivaxetil thioester piretanide S propaxetil thioester piretanide S methoxy polyethyleneoxy ethyl thioester piretanide C O S benzyltrimethylammonium thioacid salt and piretanide C O S cetyltrimethylammonium thioacid salt metastable piretanide C S OH thioacid piretanide O methyl thioester piretanide O cyanomethyl thioester piretanide O ethyl thioester piretanide O isoamyl thioester piretanide O octyl thioester piretanide O benzyl thioester piretanide O morpholinoethyl thioester piretanide O 3 dimethylaminopropyl thioester piretanide O N N diethylglycolamido thioester piretanide O N N dimethylglycolamido thioester piretanide O pivaxetil thioester piretanide O propaxetil thioester piretanide O methoxy poIyethyleneoxy ethyl thioester piretanide C S O benzyltrimethylammonium thioacid salt and piretanide C S O cetyltrimethylammonium thioacid salt piretanide thioaldehyde piretanide C S SH dithioacid piretanide methyl dithioester piretanide cyanomethyl dithioester piretanide ethyl dithioester piretanide isoamyl dithioester piretanide octyl dithioester piretanide benzyl dithioester piretanide dibenzylthioamide piretanide diethyl thioamide piretanide morpholinoethyl dithioester piretanide 3 dimethylaminopropyl di thioester piretanide N N diethylglycolamido dithioester piretanide N N dimethylglycolamido dithioester piretanide pivaxetil dithioester piretanide propaxetil dithioester piretanide methoxytpolyethyleneoxyLrethyl dithioester piretanide benzyl trimethylammonium dithioacid salt and piretanide cetyltrimethylammoniurn dithioacid salt.

Examples analogs of azozemide and include but are not limited to tetrazolyl substituted azosemides such as methoxymethyl tetrazolyl substituted azosemides methylthiomethyl tetrazolyl substituted azosemides N mPEG350 tetrazolyl substituted azosemides azosemide benzyltrimethylammoniurn salt azosemide cetyltrimethylammonium salt pyridine substituted torsemide quaternary ammonium salts or the corresponding inner salts zwitterions methoxymethylpyridinium torsemide salts methylthiomethylpyridinium torsemide salts and N mPEG350 pyridinium torsemide salts.

In another embodiment an analog of an inhibitor according to the invention may have a formula as described in the patent application WO2006 110187. Examples of said analogs include but are not limited to compounds of general formula I II and or III 

Another non limiting example of said analogs of an inhibitor of the invention is a compound of general formula IV

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a straight or branched chain saturated or partially unsaturated hydrocarbon radical wherein by unsaturated is meant the presence of 1 2 or 3 double or triple bonds or a combination thereof. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl ethyl isopropyl tert butyl n pentyl and the like.

The term alkylene as used herein refers to a straight or branched chain having two terminal monovalent radical centers derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from each of the two terminal carbon atoms of straight chain parent alkane.

The term aryl as used herein refers to an aromatic group or to an optionally substituted aromatic group fused to one or more optionally substituted aromatic groups optionally substituted with suitable substituents including but not limited to lower alkyl lower alkoxy lower alkylsulfanyl lower alkylsulfenyl lower alkylsulfonyl oxo hydroxy mercapto amino optionally substituted by alkyl carboxy tetrazolyl carbamoyl optionally substituted by alkyl aminosulfonyl optionally substituted by alkyl acyl aroyl heteroaroyl acyloxy aroyloxy heteroaroyloxy alkoxycarbonyl nitro cyano halogen or lower perfluoroalkyl multiple degrees of substitution being allowed. Examples of aryl include but are not limited to phenyl 2 naphthyl 1 naphthyl and the like.

The term halo as used herein refers to bromo chloro fluoro or iodo. Alternatively the term halide as used herein refers to bromide chloride fluoride or iodide.

The term alkoxy as used herein alone or as part of another group refers to an alkyl group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an oxy group. Representative examples of alkoxy include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy 2 propoxy butoxy tert butoxy pentyloxy hexyloxy and the like.

The term aryloxy as used herein refers to the group ArO wherein Ar is aryl or heteroaryl. Examples include but are not limited to phenoxy benzyloxy and 2 naphthyloxy.

The term amino as used herein refers to NHin which one or both of the hydrogen atoms may optionally be replaced by alkyl or aryl or one of each optionally substituted.

The term alkylthio as used herein alone or as part of another group refers to an alkyl group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through a sulfur moiety. Representative examples of alkylthio include but are not limited to methylthio ethylthio n propylthio isopropylthio n butylthio and the like.

The term quaternary ammonium as used herein refers to a chemical structure having four bonds to the nitrogen with a positive charge on the nitrogen in the onium state i.e. RN or quaternary nitrogen wherein R is an organic substituent such as alkyl or aryl. The term quaternary ammonium salt as used herein refers to the association of the quaternary ammonium with a cation.

The term substituted as used herein refers to replacement of one or more of the hydrogen atoms of the group replaced by substituents known to those skilled in the art and resulting in a stable compound as described below. Examples of suitable replacement groups include but are not limited to alkyl acyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl hydroxy alkoxy aryloxy acyl amino amido carboxy carboxyalkyl carboxyaryl halo oxo mercapto sulf iota nyl sulfonyl sulfonamido amidino carbamoyl dialkoxymethyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl dialkylaminoalkyl carboxylic acid carboxamido haloalkyl alkylthio aralkyl alkylsulfonyl arylthio amino alkylamino dialkylamino guanidino ureido and the like. Substitutions are permissible when such combinations result in compounds stable for the intended purpose. For example substitutions are permissible when the resultant compound is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture and formulation into a therapeutic or diagnostic agent.

The term solvate as used herein is intended to refer to a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate form of a specified compound that retains the biological effectiveness of such compound for example resulting from a physical association of the compound with one or more solvent molecules. Examples of solvates without limitation include compounds of the invention in combination with water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid or ethanolamine.

In another embodiment an analog of an inhibitor of the chloride transporter according to the invention may have a formula as described in the patent application WO2012 018635. Examples of said analogs include but are not limited to a compound of formula 

In another embodiment an analog of the inhibitor of the chloride transporter may have a formula as described in the patent applications incorporated herein US2007 0155729 GB2207129 in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 247 550 3 985 777 7 282 519.

In another embodiment an alternative inhibitor of NKCC activity is selected from the group comprising non diuretic compounds protein kinase inhibitors staurosporine and K252a through SPAK autophosphorylation and substrate phosphorylation of the co transporter or the sulfhydryl agents N ethylmaleimide NEM and diamide Gagnon et al. 2006 Mol. Cell. Biol. 26 2 689 698 .

In another embodiment of the invention the modulator of chloride intracellular level is oxytocin. Oxytocin has been shown to act by reducing intracellular chloride and therefore to act similarly to NKCC1 antagonists.

In another embodiment of the invention the modulator of chloride intracellular level is not bendroflumethiazide benzthiazide buthiazide chlorothiazide cyclothiazide epithiazide metalthiazide hydrochlorothiazide hydro flumethiazide methylclothiazide polythiazide trichlormethiazide chlorthalidone indapamide metolazone and quinethazone.

Preferably the modulator of the intracellular chloride level is bumetanide analogs functional derivatives and prodrugs thereof.

Another object of the present invention is a modulator of a chloride transporter that improves the outflow of chloride from neurons preferably through the activation of transporters involved in the outflow of chloride from neurons.

In one embodiment of the invention the modulator of a chloride transporter improves the outflow of chloride from neurons preferably through the activation of transporters involved in the outflow of chloride from neurons.

In another embodiment of the invention said modulator is a modulator of a chloride transporter that improves the outflow of chloride from neurons preferably through the activation of transporters involved in the outflow of chloride from neurons.

In another embodiment of the invention said modulator is an activator of a chloride transporter involved in the outflow of chloride from neurons.

In another embodiment of the invention said modulator is a selective activator of a chloride transporter involved in the outflow of chloride from neurons.

Examples of transporters involved in the outflow of chloride from neurons include but are not limited to KCC wherein KCC stands for K Cl co transporter such as for example KCC2. In one embodiment said modulator of a chloride transporter is thus a selective activator of KCC preferably of KCC2.

Examples of KCC2 activators include but are not limited to N ethylmaleimide NEM the chloride channel inhibitor 5 nitro 2 3 phenylpropylamino benzoic acid NPPB CLP257 CLP290 and analogs functional derivatives and prodrugs thereof.

Examples of KCC2 activators are described in the international patent applications incorporated herein WO2009 114950 WO2009 097695 WO2010 132999.

In one embodiment of the invention the modulator improves the expression of a chloride transporter or improves its presence on the cell surface.

In another embodiment the selective modulator of KCC improves the expression of a chloride transporter or improves its presence on the cell surface.

In another embodiment the activator of KCC improves the expression of a chloride transporter or improves its presence on the cell surface.

In another embodiment the selective activator of KCC improves the expression of a chloride transporter or improves its presence on the cell surface.

In one embodiment of the invention the modulator of the chloride transporter is involved in the outflow of chloride from neurons.

In another embodiment of the invention the selective modulator of the chloride transporter is involved in the outflow of chloride from neurons.

In another embodiment of the invention the activator of the chloride transporter increases the outflow of chloride from neurons.

In another embodiment of the invention the selective activator of the chloride transporter increases the outflow of chloride from neurons.

In another embodiment the modulator improves the activity of a chloride transporter for example is an agonist of a chloride transporter or an antibody or a fragment thereof which activates the chloride transporter.

Examples of such modulators include but are not limited to activators of KCC such as for example KCC agonists. In one embodiment the modulator is an agonist of KCC2.

In one embodiment of the invention the composition comprises an effective amount of a modulator of intracellular chloride concentration.

In one embodiment of the invention the effective amount of a modulator of intracellular chloride concentration is calculated in order to reach a desired intracellular concentration of chloride.

Indeed the Applicant surprisingly showed that the intracellular concentration of chloride is more elevated in VPA rodents than in na ve ones see Examples .

In one embodiment of the invention the effective amount of a modulator of intracellular chloride concentration corresponds to the amount to be administered to a subject in need thereof for reaching the intracellular chloride concentration measured in a healthy subject.

In one embodiment of the invention the effective amount of a modulator ranges from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg preferably from about 0.05 mg to about 100 mg more preferably from about 0.1 mg to about 10 mg and even more preferably from about 0.5 mg to about 1.5 mg.

The present invention also relates to a pharmaceutical composition for treating ASD in a subject in need thereof wherein said pharmaceutical composition comprises an effective amount of a modulator of intracellular chloride concentration and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable excipient refers to an excipient that does not produce an adverse allergic or other untoward reaction when administered to an animal preferably a human. It may include any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. For human administration preparations should meet sterility pyrogenicity and general safety and purity standards as required by FDA Office of Biologics standards.

Another object of the invention is a medicament for treating ASD comprising an effective amount of a modulator of intracellular chloride concentration.

The composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention may be administered by several routes of administration. Examples of adapted routes of administration include but are not limited to subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraocular transdermal topical parenteral intranasal and oral administration or injection preferably in utero injection. The type of form for administration will be matched to the severity of the syndrome as well as to the age weight sex etc. . . . of the subject to be treated.

In one embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention is in a form adapted for injection preferably selected from the group comprising solutions such as for example isotonic solution saline solution sterile aqueous solutions dispersions emulsions suspensions solid forms suitable for using to prepare solutions or suspensions upon the addition of a liquid prior to use such as for example powder freeze dried compositions liposomal forms and the like.

In one embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention is in a form adapted to oral administration. In one embodiment the form adapted to oral administration is a solid form selected from the group comprising tablets pills capsules soft gelatin capsules sugarcoated pills orodispersing tablets effervescent tablets or other solids. In another embodiment the form adapted to oral administration is a liquid form such as for example a drinkable solution a buccal spray liposomal forms and the like.

In one embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention is in a form adapted for local delivery via the nasal and respiratory routes. Examples of formulations suitable for nasal administration include but are not limited to nasal solutions sprays aerosols and inhalants.

In one embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention is in a form adapted to topical administration. Examples of formulations adapted to topical administration include but are not limited to ointment paste eye drops cream patch such as for example transdermal patch gel liposomal forms and the like.

In one embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention is in the form of or comprises liposomes and or nanoparticles.

In one embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention further comprises some excipients such as for example surfactants e.g. hydroxypropylcellulose suitable carriers such as for example solvents and dispersion media containing for example water monosodium or disodium phosphate sodium potassium calcium or magnesium chloride ethanol polyol e.g. glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils such as for example peanut oil and sesame oil isotonic agents such as for example sugars or sodium chloride coating agents such as for example lecithin agents delaying absorption such as for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin preservatives such as for example benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride chlorobutanol thimerosal and the like buffers such as for example boric acid sodium and potassium bicarbonate sodium and potassium borates sodium and potassium carbonate sodium acetate sodium biphosphate and the like tonicity agents such as for example dextran 40 dextran 70 dextrose glycerin potassium chloride propylene glycol sodium chloride antioxidants and stabilizers such as for example sodium bisulfite sodium metabisulfite sodium thiosulfite thiourea and the like nonionic wetting or clarifying agents such as for example polysorbate 80 polysorbate 20 poloxamer 282 and tyloxapol viscosity modifying agents such as for example dextran 40 dextran 70 gelatin glycerin hydroxyethylcellulose hydroxmethylpropylcellulose lanolin methylcellulose petrolatum polyethylene glycol polyvinyl alcohol polyvinylpyrrolidone carboxymethylcellulose and the like.

In one embodiment of the invention the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention may be used in conjunction with delivery systems that facilitate delivery of the agents to the subject. The drug delivery is directly administered to the human fetus or human embryo rather than to the pregnant woman via a uterine target such as for example the supporting vasculature the placenta or the vessels of the umbilical cord.

For example various placenta permeability enhancers may be used to transiently and reversibly increase the permeability of the placenta.

In one embodiment of the invention the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention may be used in conjunction with delivery systems that facilitate delivery of the agents to the central nervous system. For example various blood brain bather BBB permeability enhancers may be used to transiently and reversibly increase the permeability of the blood brain barrier to a treatment agent. Such BBB permeability enhancers include but are not limited to leukotrienes bradykinin agonists histamine tight junction disruptors e.g. zonulin zot hyperosmotic solutions e.g. mannitol cytoskeletal contracting agents and short chain alkylglycerols e.g. 1 O pentylglycerol . Oral sublingual parenteral implantation nasal and inhalational routes can provide delivery of the active agent to the central nervous system. In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention may be administered to the central nervous system with minimal effects on the peripheral nervous system.

The blood brain barrier BBB is a physical barrier and system of cellular transport mechanisms between the blood vessels in the central nervous system CNS and most areas of the CNS itself. The BBB maintains homeostasis by restricting the entry of potentially harmful chemicals from the blood and by allowing the entry of essential nutrients. However the BBB can pose a formidable bather to delivery of pharmacological agents to the CNS for treatment of disorders or maintaining or enhancing normal and desirable brain functions such as cognition learning and memory.

The present invention can also relate to a prodrug of the modulator of the intracellular chloride concentration within neurons or an encapsulation of said modulator.

In one embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention is a prodrug of the selective modulator of intracellular chloride concentration within neurons.

In another embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention is a prodrug of the inhibitor of chloride importation within neurons.

In another embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention is a prodrug of the selective inhibitor of chloride importation within neurons.

In another embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention is a prodrug of the activator of chloride outflow from neurons.

In another embodiment the composition pharmaceutical composition or medicament of the invention is a prodrug of the selective activator of chloride outflow from neurons.

Prodrugs as described herein are capable of passage across the blood brain barrier and may undergo hydrolysis by CNS esterases to provide the active compound.

Prodrugs provided herein may also exhibit improved bioavailability improved aqueous solubility improved passive intestinal absorption improved transporter mediated intestinal absorption protection against accelerated metabolism tissue selective delivery less or fewer side effects lessened or no deleterious drug interaction with other medications and or passive enrichment in the target tissue.

The term prodrug as used herein refers to a compound that is converted under physiological conditions by solvolysis or metabolically to a specified compound that is pharmaceutically pharmacologically active. The prodrug can be a compound of the present invention that has been chemically derivatized such that it retains some all or none of the bioactivity of its parent drug compound and is metabolized in a subject to yield the parent drug compound. The prodrug of the present invention may also be a partial prodrug in that the compound has been chemically derivatized such that it retains some all or none of the bioactivity of its parent drug compound and is metabolized in a subject to yield a biologically active derivative of the compound.

Prodrugs can be formed by attachment of biocompatible polymers such as those previously described including polyethylene glycol PEG to compounds of the present invention using linkages degradable under physiological conditions. See also Schacht et al. 1997 Poly ethylene glycol Chemistry and Biological Applications American Chemical Society San Francisco Calif. 297 315. Attachment of PEG to proteins can be employed to reduce immunogenicity and or extend the half life of the compounds provided herein. Any conventional PEGylation method can be employed provided that the PEGylated agent retains at least some pharmaceutical activity.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides prodrugs comprising the compounds described herein. The prodrugs can be formed utilizing a hydrolyzable coupling to the compounds described herein. Ettmayer et al. 2004 J. Med. Chem. 47 10 2394 2404 Testa and Mayer 2003 Hydrolysis in Drug and Prodrug Metabolism Chemistry Biochemistry and Enzymology Wiley Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta Zuerich Chapters 1 1 1 780.

In another embodiment the composition the pharmaceutical composition or the medicament of the invention is administered to the pregnant woman.

In another embodiment the composition the pharmaceutical composition or the medicament of the invention is administered to the pregnant woman at gestational age 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41.

In another embodiment the composition the pharmaceutical composition or the medicament of the invention is administered at the preterm stage to the pregnant woman.

In another embodiment the composition the pharmaceutical composition or the medicament of the invention is administered at the early term stage to the pregnant woman.

In another embodiment the composition the pharmaceutical composition or the medicament of the invention is administered at the full term stage to the pregnant woman.

In another embodiment the composition the pharmaceutical composition or the medicament of the invention is administered at the late term stage to the pregnant woman.

In another embodiment the composition the pharmaceutical composition or the medicament of the invention is administered at the postmature stage to the pregnant woman.

In another embodiment the composition the pharmaceutical composition or the medicament of the invention is administered to the pregnant woman before delivery in particular at least once 24 h 20 h 18 h 12 h 8 h 6 h 4 h 2 h before delivery.

In one embodiment of the invention the composition the pharmaceutical composition or the medicament of the invention is administered at least once a day preferably twice a day more preferably at least three times a day.

In one embodiment of the invention the daily amount of a modulator to be administered to a subject ranges from about 0.01 mg day to about 500 mg day preferably from about 0.05 day mg to about 100 mg day more preferably from about 0.1 mg day to about 10 mg day and even more preferably from about 0.5 mg day to about 1.5 mg day.

In another embodiment of the invention the administration dose of the pharmaceutical composition is determined by the skilled artisan and personally adapted to each subject.

In one embodiment of the invention the modulator is administered in a sustained release form. In one embodiment of the invention the composition comprises a delivery system that controls the release of the modulator. Examples of suitable carriers for sustained or delayed release include but are not limited to gelatin gum Arabic xanthane polymers thermoplastic resins such as for example polyvinyl halides polyvinyl esters polyvinylidene halides and halogenated polyolefins elastomers such as for example brasiliensis polydienes and halogenated natural and synthetic rubbers and flexible thermoset resins such as polyurethanes epoxy resins biodegradable polymers and the like.

In another embodiment of the invention the modulator of the present invention is administered in combination with other therapies that could include speech therapy behavioral therapy sensory integration occupational therapy special education or individualized educational plans and when necessary treatment of physical abnormalities.

In one embodiment of the invention the composition of the invention is for treating behavioral and or cognitive symptoms associated with ASD. In one embodiment the administration to a subject in need thereof of the composition of the invention results in the alleviation of behavioral symptoms of ASD.

Examples of behavioral and or cognitive symptoms of ASD include but are not limited to hyperactivity stereotypy anxiety seizure impaired social behavior cognitive delay hypersensitivity to sensory stimuli mood disorders disrupt sleep patterns irritability aggression or self injurious behavior mental retardation learning disabilities such as for example delays in learning how to sit walk and talk nervous or cluttered speech difficulty with face encoding and deficient central executive working phonological and or visual spatial memories.

In one embodiment of the invention the behavioral and or cognitive symptom associated with ASD is not Fragile X syndrome.

Methods for assessing the efficacy of the treatment are readily measurable by routing procedures familiar to a physician such as for example use of scales. Examples of scales that may be used for assessing the efficacy of the treatment of ASD include but are not limited to the ABC scale the GRAM scale and the CGI scale.

According to one embodiment of the invention the composition of the invention is for alleviating the occurrence of ocular symptoms and or othorhinolaryngo local manifestations associated with ASD. In one embodiment the administration to a subject in need thereof of the composition of the invention results in the alleviation of ocular symptoms and othorhinolaryngo local manifestations and or in the reduction of the occurrence of said symptoms such as for example in the reduction of the occurrence of ophthalmologic problems including strabismus otitis media and sinusitis.

According to one embodiment of the invention the composition of the invention is for treating synaptic defects symptoms associated with ASD. In one embodiment the administration to a subject in need thereof of the composition of the invention results in the alleviation of synaptic defects associated with ASD.

Examples of synaptic defects symptoms associated with ASD include but are not limited to defective synaptic morphology such as for example an abnormal number length and or width of dendritic spines and defective synaptic function such as for example enhanced long term depression LTD and or reduced long term potentiation LTP .

The Applicant surprisingly showed that delivery was a key event in the development of ASD see Examples . Therefore in one embodiment the composition of the invention is administered to a pregnant woman. According to the invention the term pregnant woman refers to a woman from the conception date to the end of the delivery.

In one embodiment of the invention the composition is perinatally administered to a child. As used herein the term perinatally refers to a few hours after birth preferably 10 8 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 hour s after birth. Preferably this embodiment applies following delivery complications of the child.

In another embodiment the composition of the invention is perinatally administered when the subject presents a risk of developing ASD.

In another embodiment the composition of the invention is perinatally administered when the subject suffered from delivery complications.

In another embodiment the composition of the invention is perinatally administered when the subject suffered from anoxia during delivery.

In one embodiment the composition is administered perinatally when the subject presents a familial history of ASD.

In one embodiment the composition is administered to a pregnant woman when the subject of the invention has been prenatally diagnosed with ASD preferably when the subject presents genetic mutations epigenetic modifications phenotypic variations or chromosomal abnormalities associated with ASD.

Examples of genetic mutations epigenetic modifications phenotypic variations or chromosomal abnormalities associated to ASD include but are not limited to contactin CNTN contactin associated gene CNTNAP for example structural variations in CNTNAP2 neurolegin NLGN SHANK Engrailed 2 EN2 gene serotonin transporter linked polymorphic region 5HTTLPR mTOR PI3kinase pathway calcium channel CACNA1C NRXN1 22q11.2 and 22q13 deletions deletions in CNTNAP5 and DOCK 4 deletions and duplications at 16 l duplications at 15q11 13 deletions in the 15q11.2 q14 rare recurrent deletions or duplications at 1q21 1p 1p21.3 1 g25.1 q25.2 2p16.3 2q37 3p26.3 5q14.3 6p23.1 7q11.23 7q35 q36.1 7q36.2 8p23.3 9p33.1 11q13 10q 13q13.2 15q11 13 16p11.2 16p13.2 17p 20p 22q11 22q13.

In one embodiment the composition is administered to a pregnant woman or to the subject of the invention when the subject presents a familial history of ASD. In particular a said pregnant woman has already one child with neural tube defect.

In another embodiment the composition is administered to a pregnant woman or to the subject of the invention when the subject presents a risk of developing ASD due to complications or expositions to diverse factors during pregnancy.

In one embodiment said subject was exposed in utero to an infection before delivery. Examples of such infections include but are not limited to congenital rubella syndrome or cytomegalovirus.

Increased risk factors of ASD could be due to pregnant women s diet. Examples of such risk factors include but are not limited to diabetes deficiencies in key nutrients in said pregnant women s diet such as Zinc Selenium vitamin B 12 vitamin 6 vitamin D Omega 3 and Folate.

In another embodiment said subject was exposed in utero to environmental or toxic agents that increase risks of ASD.

Increased risk factors of ASD could be due to the exposition of the subject of the invention to environmental factors that include heavy metal antibiotics food preservatives toxic additives and environmental toxins.

Examples of such toxic agents include but are not limited to teratogens agents misoprostol ethanol grain alcohol flavonoids in food tobacco smoke herbicides.

In one embodiment of the invention the subject is a male. In another embodiment of the invention the subject is a female.

In one embodiment of the invention the subject is a young child. As used herein the term young child refers to a child from 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 months old 1 year old 1 year and 3 months old 1 year and 6 months old 1 year and 9 months old 2 years 2 years and 3 months old 2 years and 6 months old 2 years and 9 months old 3 years old.

In one embodiment of the invention the detection of the mutations associated to ASD is performed on a sample from the subject preferably a body fluid sample from the subject. Examples of body fluids include but are not limited to blood plasma serum saliva lymph ascetic fluid cystic fluid urine bile nipple exudate synovial fluid bronchoalveolar lavage fluid sputum amniotic fluid chorionic villi peritoneal fluid cerebrospinal fluid pleural fluid pericardial fluid semen saliva sweat and alveolar macrophages. Preferably said body fluid is plasma or serum.

In one embodiment of the invention the method of the invention comprises subcutaneously intramuscularly intravenously intraocularly transdermally topically parenterally intranasally or orally administering the modulator of the invention or its injection preferably in utero injection.

In one embodiment of the invention the method of the invention comprises administering the modulator of the invention only once.

In another embodiment of the invention a daily amount of a modulator ranging from about 0.01 mg day to about 500 mg day preferably from about 0.05 day mg to about 100 mg day more preferably from about 0.1 mg day to about 10 mg day and even more preferably from about 0.5 mg day to about 1.5 mg day is administered to the subject.

The present invention also relates to a method for decreasing the intracellular concentration of chloride in a subject in need thereof preferably the neuronal intracellular concentration of chloride.

Another object of the invention is a method for modulating the intracellular chloride concentration of a subject in need thereof wherein the method comprises administering to the subject in need thereof an effective amount of a modulator of a chloride transporter.

The present invention also relates to a method for decreasing the driving force of GABA in a subject in need thereof.

In one embodiment of the invention the method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of a modulator of a chloride transporter.

In one embodiment of the invention said effective amount is calculated in order to reach a desired intracellular concentration of chloride.

In one embodiment of the invention the method comprises administering to the subject in need thereof the composition the pharmaceutical composition or the medicament of the invention.

Time mated female Wistar rats at gestational day E7 8 were housed under standard laboratory conditions. The in utero valproic acid VPA rodent model of autism spectrum disorders has been previously described in detail. Briefly the sodium salt of VPA Sigma Aldrich was dissolved in physiological saline solution to a concentration of 300 mg ml. Pregnant rats received a single intra peritoneal dose of 600 mg kg on gestational day 12 E12 . The control dams received a single similar volume injection of saline at the same gestational time point. Dams were housed individually and allowed to raise their own litters. The offspring were used for experiments on embryonic day 20 E20 and postnatal P days 0 2 4 7 15 and 30 after being weaned at P23 . Experiments were carried out on offspring of either sex.

Experiments were performed on fetuses and neonatal rat pups. We removed E20 rats from deeply anesthetized dams subcutaneous injection of a mixture of xylazine Rompun 2 used at 0.05 and ketamine Imalgene 1000 used at 50 g l . Hippocampal slices 300 500 nm thick were prepared using a Microm tissue slicer International GmbH Germany as described previously Tyzio et al. 2006 Science 314 1788 Tyzio et al 2008 Eur J. Neurosci. 27 10 2515 28 . Slices were kept in oxygenated 95 O 5 CO artificial cerebrospinal fluid ACSF of the following composition in mM NaCl 126 KCl 3.5 CaCl2.0 MgCl1.3 NaHCO25 NaHPO4 1.2 and glucose 11 pH 7.4 at room temperature 20 22 C. at least 1 hour before use.

For recordings slices were placed into a conventional fully submerged chamber superfused with ACSF at a rate of 2 3 ml min at room temperature. Patch clamp recordings from visually identified CA3 pyramidal cells in cell attached configuration were performed using EPC 10 amplifier HEKA Elektronik Dr. Schulze GmbH Lambrecht Pfalz Germany . Patch pipette solution for recordings of single GABAchannels contained in mM NaCl 120 KCl 5 TEA Cl 20 4 aminopyridine 5 CaCl0.1 MgCl10 glucose 10 Hepes NaOH 10 buffered to pH 7.2 7.3 and GABA 2 M. Analysis of currents through single channels and current voltage relationships were performed using Clampfit 9.2 Axon Instruments Union City Calif. . Recordings were digitized 10 kHz online with Digidata 1200 interface card Axon Instruments Union City Calif. and analyzed offline with Axon package MiniAnalysis S Synaptsoft Decatur Ga. and Origin Microcal Software Northampton Mass. .

Standard whole cell recordings were performed in coronal neocortical rat or mouse brain slices at room temperature 20 22 C. from the soma of hippocampal CA3 neurons using an EPC 10 HEKA Elektronik Germany amplifier and filtered at 3 10 kHz. The internal solution contained in mM 130 K gluconate 10 Na gluconate 4 NaCl 4 MgATP 4 phosphocreatine 10 HEPES and 0.3 GTP pH 7.3 with KOH . Biocytin final concentration 0.3 0.5 was added to the pipette solution to label the neurons from which recordings were obtained. Neurons were visualized by using infrared DIC video microscopy. Spontaneous postsynaptic currents were recorded for 15 mM at the reversal potentials for GABAergic currents 70 mV . It should be specifically noted that all recordings were made in normal ACSF 1.3 mM MgCl . Stored data were analyzed using the Mini Analysis 6.0.3 Synaptosoft Inc. Chapell Hill N.C. and Origin MicroCal Northampton Mass. software. To minimize potential sampling bias the pups from at least three deliveries for each condition were studied. Data are expressed as mean S.E.M.

Extracellular field potentials and multi unit activity MUA recordings Recording were made in the hippocampal slices using tungsten wire electrodes diameter 50 m California Fine Wire Grover Beach Calif. and a low noise multichannel DAM 8A amplifiers WPI GB low pass filter 0.1 Hz high pass filter 3 KHz gain 1000 . The signals were digitized using an analogue to digital converter Digidata 1440A Axon Instruments USA . pCLAMP 10.1 Clampfit 10.1 Axon Instruments USA MiniAnalysis 6.03 Synaptosoft Decatur Calif. and Origin 7.5 Microcal Software USA programs were used for the acquisition and analysis of the synaptic activities. Sampling interval per signal was 100 microseconds 10 kHz .

Head fixed rat pups of age P13 P15 were prepared for extracellular recording under isoflurane anesthesia. The skin and periosteum were removed from the skull which was then covered by glue and dental cement except for a 4 9 mmwindow above the somatosensory cortex from one or two hemispheres for the silicon probe penetration 4.0 4.2 mm lateral to midline and 2.2 2.5 mm caudal to bregma and for the reference electrode 1.0 1.5 mm lateral to midline and 6.0 6.5 mm caudal to bregma . The rat was positioned in the stereotaxic apparatus. A 1 mm diameter burr hole was drilled in the skull the dura was cut and removed. Recordings were made 1 h after recovery from anesthesia. Pups were kept restrained for 

To induce ultrasonic vocalizations mouse pups were isolated individually from their mother on postnatal day 8 and were placed into an isolation box 23 28 18 cm located inside a sound attenuating isolation cubicle 54 57 41 cm Coulbourn Instruments Allentown Pa. USA and evaluated for ultrasonic vocalizations during a three minutes test. An ultrasound microphone Avisoft UltraSoundGate Condenser microphone capsule CM16 CMPA Avisoft Bioacoustics Berlin Germany placed in the roof of the box was sensitive to frequencies of 10 to 250 kHz. Vocalizations were recorded using the Avisoft Recorder software version 4.2 with a sampling rate of 250 kHz in 16 bit format. For acoustical analysis recordings were transferred to SASLab Pro version 5.2 Avisoft Bioacoustics and a fast Fourier transformation was conducted 512 FFT length 100 frame Hamming window and 75 time window overlap . The accuracy of call detection was verified manually by an educated user. A Pearson correlation coefficient was computed to assess the relationship between Automatic and Manual analysis. There was 0.99 correlation between the two variables.

The data from electrophysiological study were analyzed with two tailed t test and one way ANOVA Fisher s LSD post hoc test. For quantification of western blots we used unpaired t tests between control and VPA. For behavior experimenters were blind to the treatment or genotype during testing and analyzing. All data are presented as mean S.E.M. error bars .

Bumetanide 10 M Oxytocin 1 M and Isoguvacine 2 M were directly added to the perfusion solutions. Bumetanide pretreatment 2 2.5 mg kg was given to the dams in drinking water. All drugs used were purchased from Sigma. SSR126768A Sanofi Synthelabo pretreatment 1 mg kg was given to the dams in drinking water.

The driving force for GABAR DF used as an index of Cl was elevated in fetal hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons E20 21 in naive rats and reduced to adult values at P15 30 with an abrupt reduction restricted to the delivery period table 1 . In contrast DFwas elevated in fetal early postnatal stages and P15 30 in VPA rats table 1 . Acute applications of the specific NKCC1 chloride importer antagonist bumetanide 10 M significantly decreased Cl and DFat P0 in VPA neurons table 2 . Therefore GABA depolarizes VPA in a bumetanide sensitive manner.

To test whether the depolarizing actions of GABA were associated with neuronal excitation in naive neurons the specific GABAR agonist isoguvacine 2 M inhibited or did not affected spike frequency in cell attached recordings at P0 and in field potential recordings at P15 table 3 . In contrast isoguvacine increased spike frequency in VPA neurons in cell attached recordings at P0 and P15 and in field potential recordings at P15 C . Therefore GABA excites newborn and juvenile VPA neurons.

If the polarity of GABA actions at delivery produces long terms effects in offsprings then restoring low Cl and inhibitory GABA at delivery might restore physiological parameters in juvenile rodents. To test this hypothesis pregnant females were treated orally 1 day before delivery with bumetanide 2 2.5 mg kg in drinking water and juvenile offspring neurons recorded at P15. Maternal pretreatment of VPA with bumetanide restored control DFvalues in offsprings at P15 C table 4 suppressed the excitatory actions of the GABAR agonist isoguvacine C and significantly reduced ongoing activity and frequency of whole cell recorded glutamatergic sEPSCs . Therefore excitatory actions of GABA during delivery produce long term deleterious effects on electrophysiological parameters of VPA juvenile neurons. In VPA rats GABAergic inputs are excitatory and contribute to hyperexcitability of the network. Bumetanide decreases Cl and consequently reduces contribution of excitatory GABAergic inputs in the overall network activity.

This led us to test whether maternal bumetanide pretreatment might prevent autistic like behaviors. We found that VPA pups emitted smaller number of calls with a shorter total duration of calls than age matched control P4 pups. Maternal pretreatment with bumetanide rescued this behavioral deficit in offsprings table 5 . Therefore elevated Cl levels during delivery are involved in the pathogenesis of autism.

Finally as alterations of brain oscillations have been observed in patients with autism we tested whether similar changes occur in vivo in VPA rats. Using silicon probe recordings in P13 P15 VPA rats we observed that in contrast to age matched naive rats the EEG recordings in the hippocampal CA3 region were characterized by oscillatory hyperactivity and enhanced power of network oscillations in the entire spectrum of frequencies including gamma but excluding fast ripples and very low frequencies. Maternal pretreatment with bumetanide abolished hyperactivity and restored physiological values in offsprings table 6 . Therefore oscillations in the juvenile brain are strongly dependent on GABA actions during delivery.

