---

title: Techniques for topical customer service menu reconfiguration based on social media
abstract: Techniques for topical customer service menu reconfiguration based on social media are claimed. In one embodiment, for example, an apparatus may comprise a social media gateway and an adjustment component. The social media gateway may be operative to receive social media information from one or more social media networks. The adjustment component may be operative to data mine the social media information to extract one or more characteristics, infer a trend from the extracted one or more characteristics, and adjust a customer service menu tree based upon the inferred trend. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426289&OS=09426289&RS=09426289
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09426289
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130912
---
Contact centers generally exchange information with consumers through directed contacts. Directed contacts consist of emails phone calls or other forms of communication that are directed to the contact center or the consumer. However many people today exchange information or interact through non direct methods. Non direct communications require users to post communications to third party sites or forums but not to direct those communications to a specific person. Often these forums are hosted by a specific organization and the discussions revolve around this organization and are also directed to the organization. For example Twitter feeds from a company Facebook business pages etc. Non direct communication methods include social media which may include websites networks blogs micro blogs RSS feeds social media websites such as Linked In Facebook Twitter MySpace etc. and other types of social media.

Consumers are finding it useful to ask their questions complain about service and complement companies in the public forum of social media. Social media is often a canary in a coal mine i.e. an early indicator for possible service affecting events because social media users typically express themselves on social media channels before using traditional channels like voice. The addition of social media to valid contact center channels increases the overall coverage required by today s contact center. However contact centers have limited amounts of resources. The burden of keeping other traditionally static contact center self service channels current efficient and useful becomes a difficult problem. Therefore traditional contact centers do not react to trends in social media that duplicate trends from other channels so as to have refreshed topical menus available to customers on customer service menu systems like voice dialog via interactive voice response IVR . Delays in addressing a customer crisis results in lost time money and reputation for a business.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some novel embodiments described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various embodiments are generally directed to techniques for topical Interactive Voice Response IVR reconfiguration based on social media. However the present invention is not limited to IVR menu reconfigurations. Rather it is within the scope of the present invention to include embodiments for improvements to any and all topical customer service menu reconfigurations. For clarity purposes this disclosure describes embodiments of the present invention in terms of an IVR system but it should be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention also contemplates other customer service menu systems. For example if a contact center offers a Web app e.g. HTML5 user interface to the contact center that allows a customer to navigate a customer service menu online that type of menu can be reconfigured just like an IVR system.

Embodiments are particularly directed to techniques for reconfiguring consumer service menu systems e.g. IVR systems based on social media wherein topic priority and the available options are adjusted in response to trending social media information. In one embodiment for example an apparatus may comprise a social media gateway and an adjustment component. The social media gateway may be operative to receive social media information from one or more social media networks. The adjustment component may be operative to data mine the social media information to extract one or more characteristics infer a trend from the extracted one or more characteristics and adjust an interactive voice response IVR tree based upon the inferred trend. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be practiced and all aspects and equivalents thereof are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various embodiments are directed to techniques for topical IVR reconfiguration based on social media. Social media channels are gaining momentum as a platform for delivering and receiving customer support. Consumers are finding it useful to ask their questions complain about service and complement companies in the public forum of social media. The addition of social media to valid contact center channels increases the overall convergence required by today s contact center. The burden of keeping other traditionally static contact center self service channels current efficient and useful becomes a difficult problem.

Customers who call into a contact center to directly speak to a contact center agent or to use the phone for self service benefit from efficient interactive voice response IVR systems that make the most common menu choices and options easy to find and simple to navigate. This becomes very difficult when deploying a static system with many options and many levels of menus. Furthermore the need may arise to move menu items around based on time of day current events or trending problems. These IVR systems may be paired with or make use of an automated speech recognition ASR system for receiving and processing voice communication.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention are able to monitor and gather social media data items e.g. Tweets Facebook posts blog entries etc. . The social media data items are processed by recognizing information extracting information and or categorizing information. The processed information is then imported into the contact center as work items to be further processed and or analyzed by automated agents or by live agents. The resulting analyzed social media data has many applications as a dynamic data source.

Social media monitoring and analysis is used to detect trending topics sentiment spikes and other events interesting to an enterprise contact center. An example of an event interesting to a contact center is a natural disaster or accident that affects a small geographic area and is reported by social media users and may cause a surge in incoming calls to the enterprise contact center an insurance home improvement store construction company or similar . With this information the invention dynamically adjusts IVR grammars call flows and prompts for callers during the duration of the detected event. Adjustments may also include changing weights associated with potential matches to items in a lexicon adding items to the lexicon and or deleting items from the lexicon.

Public social sources may include the following Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Blogs RSS search sites Google Bing etc. etc. Any site where users may post information about themselves or comment about current events and make that information available for social networking purposes may be used as a source of social information.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention include a continuously running social media monitoring system that looks for characteristics such as trends new topics business relevant events and sentimental spikes. This system will monitor all sites configured and if triggered will produce a notification interaction prompting a potential action by the IVR ASR systems. Interactions are monitored and processed in real time producing up to the minute analysis of the state of the configured topics. Furthermore any unknown topic sentiment event or trend items are noted and produce similar notifications. The analysis may include a combination of standard methods in cloud based services and internal created analysis of characteristics including text processing part of speech analysis language identification classification methods location based information time based information etc.

Topics may be configured depending upon the monitored social media channels. For example in Twitter the social media gateway may be configured by an administrator to search for a set of terms e.g. an airline might put in their airline name initials Delta DL and terms like flight ticket plane tarmac etc. A social media gateway may allow a user to establish a context of when those words are relevant and when they are not relevant. To illustrate Delta may also be associated with Delta Faucets a college fraternity or sorority a river delta and so forth. The context of a potentially ambiguous search term like Delta is establish by selecting a set of related terms that must appear with a search term before a hit of the search term is considered to be relevant. For example for the search term Delta the system may be configured to search for related terms like airline flight ticket in context with Delta to distinguish tweets on airline topics from other topic domains.

An SMM may also have an ability to receive mention and direct message type tweets. An mention is a type of tweet that contain text such as where the is the name of another user on twitter. For example Delta Airlines may establish a twitter handle DeltaAssist to allow customers to communicate with Delta social media associates. Direct message tweets are a non public person to person communications channel that Twitter supports for users that are followers of each other. For both mention and direct message tweets the social media message is specifically addressed to the company so topic configuration should not be necessary because such tweets are assumed to be on topic. For other social media channels e.g. Facebook Linked In the company may establish a page as an anchor point for conversations. The content of the conversations on that page are assumed to be on the topics related to the company because e.g. one typically would not post a message about Delta Faucets on the Delta Airlines Facebook page. Spam filters may also be useful in ensuring that posts are on topic.

The notification interactions are configured to trigger action by the contact center IVR ASR systems. The action may include an initial reconfiguration as described herein of the IVR ASR systems and or provisioning a duration of the reconfiguration and or provisioning that the reconfiguration is intended to be of indefinite duration and or the notifying a user of unforeseen triggers or states. For example a power outage event may be designed or set up to trigger an action that will last until the action is manually reset. In another example a generic service disruption may have a duration of e.g. 60 minutes after an end of a trend is detected or 60 minutes after a sentiment spike has returned to normal levels.

An aspect of the invention is the handling of unknown events such as unanticipated critical service events that may occur. Monitoring social channels may provide notification of these events before traditional incoming channel calls are affected by these critical service events. Critical service events may trigger certain actions. First the IVR ASR system may be notified of an unknown service event triggering some default processing in response. Second a notification trigger may be sent to notify an appropriate workflow chain to analyze and deal with the new event. This may include manual changes to the IVR ASR systems both in monitoring and in the contact center.

For example if a weather event or natural disaster occurs e.g. a tornado outbreak an earthquake a volcanic ash eruption etc. there may be unanticipated travel disruption throughout a region. Early notification through social channels would provide early warning of an increased call volume to come.

Once an IVR ASR system has received the notification information the system may dynamically adjust its user interface by adding deleting changing available options menus prompts grammar processing workflow i.e. the sequence in which a work item is handled in a contact center or adding deleting entries in an ASR lexicon etc. in order to accommodate the events as detected from the changing social state i.e. from changes in social information posted on social networking sites. For example the notifications may affect a single prompt may cause a change in order of individual menu items within a list may cause new menu item to be added to accommodate the new event and so forth. In addition the system may be configured to activate an entire dialog module that replaces or augments large parts of the response routing system. In another embodiment in accordance with the present invention only back end routing parameters are changed with no difference visible to the caller. Back end routing parameters may refer to data that a work flow engine or underlying call routing handling switch may use to make an assignment of a call to a specific resource e.g. contact center agent IVR etc. within a contact center. For example a trend might place callers with volcano issues into a different queue than they might have gone into based on their CRM demographic. Work flows use data to make routing determinations and the data used for those routing decisions may be modified by an identified trend.

As a result the embodiments can improve the performance of an IVR system and improve the affordability of updating the IVR system in response to recent events.

Reference is now made to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof. The intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the claimed subject matter.

It is worthy to note that a and b and c and similar designators as used herein are intended to be variables representing any positive integer. Thus for example if an implementation sets a value for a 5 then a complete set of components may include components and . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The IVR system may comprise the IVR update application . The IVR update application may be generally arranged to receive social networking information from a plurality of social media networks and adjust an IVR tree based on the received social media information . The IVR system may be used as part of a contact center.

A contact center can be a system that can communicate with one or more persons that use social media networks . The contact center can be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The contact center can be executed by one or more servers or computer systems. The contact center can include all systems whether hardware or software that allow the contact center to receive service and respond to directed and non directed contacts. For example the contact center can include the telephone or email system an interface to human agents systems to allow human agents to service and respond to received contacts and one or more systems operable to analyze and improve the function of agent interaction.

The contact center may also communicate with one or more communication devices. Communication devices may be a customer s or user s cell phone email system personal digital assistant laptop computer or other device that allows the contact center to interact with the customer. The contact center can modify a non direct contact from a social media networks into a directed contact by sending a response message directly to a customer s communication device.

Social media networks can be any social media including but not limited to networks websites or computer enabled systems. For example a social media network may be MySpace Facebook Twitter Linked In Spoke or other similar computer enabled systems or websites.

The IVR system may comprise an IVR performance component . The IVR performance component may be generally arranged to perform a dialog for the IVR system when in communication with various contacts such as caller via call . For example IVR performance component may receive an incoming call from caller answer the call and perform an IVR tree comprising various dialogs prompts options and commands.

The IVR tree may comprise a structured hierarchical set of dialogs prompts options and commands for use with contacts. The IVR tree may comprise a top level dialog performed in response to the reception of an incoming call. The top level dialog may comprise a plurality of options for selection by a user. Each option of the plurality of options may comprise a segment of text spoken to a caller with an associated command that the caller may use to select the option. A command may comprise a word or phrase that the caller may speak a number that the caller may speak a number that the caller may enter using a telephone keypad or any other known technique for indicating a command using a telephone or other voice communication device. It will be appreciated that speaking a segment of text may involve using a text to voice routine or playing a recording of a human being reading the text.

A command received in the performance of the IVR tree may initiate an action by the IVR system . The IVR system may retrieve and communicate one or more pieces of information to a caller in response to a received command. The IVR system may update create modify delete or otherwise modify a stored piece of information such as a merchandise order a request or any other information in response to a receive command. In addition or alternatively the IVR system may move to a lower level of the IVR tree in response to the received command. For example one option of the plurality of options may comprise a request to receive information about whether an item is stock at a store. A lower level of the IVR tree may comprise various items that the IVR system allows a caller to learn more about. In general the IVR tree may comprise various branching dialogs in which upon selection of an option a new set of options is presented to the user. It will be appreciated that while the IVR tree is described as a tree structure that different selections of options such as the selection of multiple options in sequence via various dialogs may lead to a same part of the IVR tree . The IVR tree may be stored in an IVR store .

The IVR update application may comprise a social media gateway . The social media gateway may be generally arranged to receive social media information from one or more social media networks . Social media information may correspond to any information gathered from the one or more social media networks via one or more social media APIs for interfacing with social media networks 

The social media gateway may be generally arranged to filter the social media information to produce filtered social media information . Filtered social media information may comprise the portion of social media information determined to be relevant to the contact center associated with IVR system . Filtered social media information may comprise additional data generated in the analysis of social media information which may be useful to adjustment component in its adjustment of IVR tree .

The IVR update application may comprise an adjustment component . The adjustment component may be generally arranged to receive filtered social media information from the social media gateway and use the filtered social media information to adjust an IVR tree .

Adjusting the IVR tree may comprise moving a first option of a plurality of options from a later spot to an earlier spot in the IVR tree based upon the inferred trend indicating an increased importance of a topic related to the first option. For example the first option may relate to purchasing gas powered generators. The inferred trend may be an increasing prominence of social media users discussing losing power due to a serious storm. This trend an increased importance of home power generation. As such this first option may be moved from a later spot in the IVR tree to an earlier spot.

The earlier spot being earlier than the later spot may comprise the earlier spot coming before the later spot in a sequence of options performed by the IVR performance component . The earlier spot and later spot may be at the same level in the hierarchy of the IVR tree such as a top level or a level reached after the selection of one or more options by the caller . Alternatively the earlier and later spot may be at different levels in the hierarchy of the IVR tree such that the first option is moved across levels in the hierarchy.

Recognizing trending topics based upon data mining of social media channels may include attempting to estimate persistence of the recognized words and phrases. For example low persistence words and phrases such as those related to a transient and low recurring event or phenomenon e.g. weather event earthquake volcanic ash etc. may be expected to occur less frequently as the transient phenomenon changes from being a present event to being a historical event. However high persistence words and phrases such as those related to a non transient or permanent e.g. renaming of an airport or high recurring event e.g. traffic jams etc. that may be expected to be encountered in the future even if presently the frequency of usage of those words and phrases may decline below a predetermined threshold or even if a certain amount of time has passed.

In some embodiments the adjustment component may estimate a persistence of the inferred trend and determine a limited duration of the adjustment to the IVR tree based on the estimated persistence. For example a low persistence trend may use a first predetermined duration and a high persistence trend may use a second longer predetermined duration. However more granular durations may also be used. For example the adjustment component may categorize various trends into various buckets wherein each bucket is associated with a particular expected persistence and is associated with a particular limited duration.

In some embodiments the IVR tree may be reverted to its original configuration once an inferred trend has subsided. For example a trend indicating higher interest in home power generation may subside below a threshold such as after power is restored to a significant number of homes following a storm and an option related to the purchase of gas powered generators reverted to its previous position in the IVR tree in response. The social media gateway may receive additional social media information from the one or more social media networks and determine additional filtered social media information which it forwards to the adjustment component . The adjustment component may in response data mine the social media information to extract one or more additional characteristics infer a second trend from the extracted one or more additional characteristics and return the first option of the plurality of options to the later spot based upon the inferred second trend indicating a decreased importance of the topic related to the first option.

In addition to moving options the adjustment component may be operative to create a new option in the plurality of options based upon the inferred trend indicating an increased importance of a topic related to the new option. For example the IVR tree may not have a specific option for checking the availability of gas powered generators. The adjustment component may be operative to initiate the creation of such an option in response to a determination of a related trend such as one indicating increased interest in home power generation.

In some embodiments the adjustment component may automatically and programmatically create the new option and insert into the IVR tree . The adjustment component may be operative to insert the new option in a prominent position in the IVR tree such as the first option at the highest level of the IVR tree or as one of the earliest options in the highest level of the IVR tree . Similar to with moved options the adjustment component may be operative to remove the new option after a determined limited duration or in response to a determination that the inferred trend has subsided.

In some embodiments creating a new option in the IVR tree may comprise retrieving an inactive option from the IVR store . The IVR store may contain a plurality of inactive options that were previously active or that were created in anticipation that they might be needed. For example if the adjustment component is operative to recognize that home power generation is trending in importance the IVR store may be configured with an option for determining the availability of gas powered generators. In general the various topics which the adjustment component may be operative to recognize an increasing importance of may each be associated with an option either an existing option to increase in priority or an inactive option to promote to active status.

In some embodiments the adjustment component may involve a human operator in the creation of the new option such as where original text needs to be created or where human judgment is otherwise relevant. The adjustment component may alert a maintainer of the IVR tree of an increased importance of a topic receiving a new option for the plurality of options from the maintainer of the IVR tree and insert the new option into the plurality of options. The new option may be associated with a limited duration. In various embodiments the adjustment component may propose the limited duration to the human operator or may receive the limited duration from the human operator. In various embodiments the adjustment component may automatically remove the new option in response to a determination that the trend has subsided or may alert the maintainer that the trend has subsided and only remove the new option in response to a maintainer command to remove the option or to approve the removal of the option.

In various embodiments the new option from a human operator may comprise an option created specifically in response to the IVR system prompting the human operator or may comprise the IVR system activating an inactive option from the IVR store . In some embodiments the adjustment component may specifically propose that an inactive option be activated. If a new option is specifically created by a human operator in response to the alert by the adjustment component the adjustment component may be operative to set the new option as inactive and retain it in the IVR store . If the topic becomes important again the adjustment component may be operative to suggest the new inactive option to a human operator or to automatically activate the new inactive option in response to the topic increasing in importance. As such the IVR store may accumulate additional options over time increasing its ability to automatically responding to trending topics only requesting the intervention of a human operator when a trending topic does not have a default behavior e.g. activating an inactive topic associated with it.

In some embodiments a new queue may be made in a contact center for the new option. For example various options may lead to entering a caller into a queue for contact with a human operator. A contact center may have multiple queues for various categories of action. Where the new option corresponds to a new action a new queue may be added to the multiple of queues. In some cases a trending topic may be sufficiently important to warrant a new queue even where the new option would previously have been handled by an existing queue. For example where demand for gas powered generators is predicted to be sufficiently high a new queue dedicated entirely to checking availability of and receiving orders for gas powered generators may be created in the call center so as to allow for call center staff to be dedicated to that one task to allow for that task to be at a higher or lower priority than other tasks or for any other reason.

Herein the social media gateway can include one or more content filters and or . A content filter can receive all of the messages for the contact center from social media networks and eliminate or delete those messages that do not require a response. For example a message between two friends on a Facebook page if not pertaining to a product or a service of the company operating the contact center may not need a response. As such the content filter can filter out or delete the non suitable message from the messages that are received by the social media network application programming interface API 1 social media network API 2 and or social media network API 3 . With the content filter the social media network API only needs to translate those messages that should be received by the adjustment component . Translation typically requires the conversion of the message into a different format.

The content filter is provided with one or more heuristics for filter rules from a filter database not shown . These filter rules can be created by the external customer or internal user e.g. agent or administrator of the IVR system . Thus the user or customer of the IVR system can customize the filtering of messages from social media networks . Further different rules may be applied to different social media networks as some social media networks may have different types of messages or postings than other types of social media networks . While the content filter is shown as part of the social media gateway it is to be appreciated that the content filter may be a part of the social media network API . The content filter may correspond to query terms used by the social media network API . The content filter or query terms are an argument to the social media network API call.

The social media network API can be an application that the social media networks provides to access the social media networks . Thus the social media network API is called and connects the social media gateway to the social media networks . Any suitable filter criteria may be employed for social media API . Examples of filter criteria include positive content of positive the source of posting an address field destination or recipient address fields a time stamp field a subject matter field and a message body field. For example a type of searchable content can be name of the business enterprise running or employing the contact center and or the products or services of the enterprise.

The social media gateway can include one or more social media network APIs . As shown in the social media gateway may include a social media network API for each social media networks . As such the social media gateway can interact with each social media networks in the particular often unique format or protocol used by the social media networks . Further when new social media networks are created the social media gateway can be easily expanded to interact with those social media networks by adding another social media network API . Where social media networks are more standardized or use substantially similar formats or protocols a single social media network API can be shared by multiple social media networks 

The social media network API can receive messages from and send messages to the social media networks . The social media network API can translate a message received from a social media networks and send the translated message to a message filter . The social media network API can translate the received message into a standard formatted file. For example the translated message may be represented by an extensible mark up language XML file or other file having a general format. As such each specific and particular social media network message can be translated into a standard format for use by the adjustment component . Further the social media network API can receive a generally or standard format response message from the adjustment component and translate that response into a particularly or specifically formatted response message that can be posted to the corresponding social media networks 

Messages to the contact center are addressed to the contact center. For example a customer may become a friend of the contact center on a social media network such as Facebook. The customer may then address a message to the contact center on Facebook. This non direct contact is a message that is not sent directly to the contact center but to the contact center s Facebook page. In other embodiments the contact center receives messages not addressed to the contact center. For example the contact center can receive tweets from Twitter that are broadcast rather than addressed to the contact center. The contact center may also search for messages or content on the social media networks . Exemplary search criteria include customer name customer profession customer home address customer business address customer employer name customer educational or professional background customer hobby personal or business interests customer family profile and the like. Thus the social media gateway of the contact center can query gather or connect to a live feed of data from social media networks and then apply a filter to the indirect information.

Further the social media network API can also retrieve user context or other extended information from the social media networks . User context or other extended information can include historical posts historical tweets or other historical communications that a user may have received or sent. Further user context or other extended information can include but is not limited to account information for a user the user s followers or friends information on where historical messages were posted e.g. geo location time date what type of device etc. trending analysis that the social media networks might provide the user etc. Thus the social media network API can retrieve information that is associated with a user and social media networks but not necessarily a part of a current message. The social media network API is a gatherer of data which can be used to determine a value for the user of the social media networks 

The translated messages from the social media network API can be received by a message filter . A message filter can perform some or all of the functions of the content filter and eliminate messages before being sent to the adjustment component . However in other embodiments the message filter eliminates information from within the messages before the redacted messages are sent to the adjustment component . For example a message from a social media network may have three or four interactions between two parties not associated with the contact center. Only one of the several postings may be pertinent to the adjustment component . As such the message filter can eliminate or delete at least a portion of the other messages for the adjustment component . Thus the adjustment component receives a message where some of the content of the message has been deleted. The message filter can retrieve heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown similar to the content filter . A substantial difference between the content and message filters and is that the content filter is specific to a particular message format associated with a corresponding social media networks while the message filter is applied to a standardized or universal format and is therefore common to multiple social media networks . One skilled in the art will understand the type of rules that may be used to filter information from messages such that only pertinent questions facts requests or information is sent to the adjustment component .

A message aggregator may also be included with the social media gateway . A message aggregator can in contrast to the message filter combine two or more messages into a packet or grouping that is sent to the adjustment component . Therefore the message aggregator can interrelate or combine messages based on information within the messages. For example two messages may be combined based on any of the message fields referenced above such as the person that posted the message the subject the request or question asked the person the message was sent to or other information that may be pertinent to the adjustment component . Thus the adjustment component may be able to respond concurrently to two or more messages based on a grouping provided by the message aggregator . Regardless of whether the messages are aggregated each message or grouping of messages can be sent from the social media gateway to the adjustment component .

The social media gateway can also send responses back to the social media networks . A response from an agent in the contact center can be sent to the social media gateway . The response may be in a general format and translated. The translated response may then be posted to the appropriate social media networks by the social media gateway . In other embodiments the agent may post the response directly to the social media networks without sending the response to the social media gateway .

The adjustment component can include one or more components which may be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The adjustment component can be executed by a computer system. However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a FPGA or ASIC. The components contained within the adjustment component can include a dialog core that is communication with a message history database an agent interface and a heuristic rules and dialogs database . Further the heuristic rules and dialogs database can be in communication with a dialog creator . The heuristic rules and dialogs database may generally correspond to the IVR store described with reference to .

The dialog core can include one or more sub components. For example the dialog core can include a trend analysis component a text processing component and an analysis tools component . These components similar to the components for the adjustment component can be hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The dialog core may step through the states of a dialog data structure. A dialog data structure can include a set of inputs and associated actions that can be taken which allow for the automatic and structured response to social media requests or messages. For example if a user asks for a manual the input of the text word manual can cause the adjustment component in accordance with a dialog data structure to send information about one or more manuals. In turn the receiver of the response may respond in kind with the selection of a certain user manual. In which case the dialog data structure may then instruct the dialog core to send the user to a website where the user can retrieve an electronic version of the manual. As such the dialog data structure provides a script a dialog that allows the dialog core to automate the interaction between the contact center and a person. This automation eliminates the need for agent involvement in some situations and makes the contact center more efficient and more effective. Further the automation expands the contact center s ability to answer numerous messages from the plethora of postings on the numerous social media networks 

The dialog creator will create a dialog data structure that includes instructions for various states for each social media message that comes into the contact center. The first instruction might be to send the social media message to the trend analysis component then to the text processing component and then execute a query of a Customer Relationship Management CRM database to determine if this user has an existing order . A CRM database can store information about customers or other data related to customer relations. Finally the dialog data structure might decide that the social media message should be sent to a human agent for processing. The instructions or node transitions are executed in the dialog core and make use of many different components that the dialog creator combines in any way the user desires to handle the social media messages. The dialog core can make use of the trend analysis component text processing component or other systems. The dialog core may also interface with a CRM system and or database external databases social media user information e.g. followers friends post history etc. from the social media site or other systems.

The trend analysis component is operable to analyze trends that occur between two or more messages received by the social media networks . The two messages can be from different social media networks so that the trend analysis component can identify trends across several different social media networks . Trends can include multiple occurrences of the same word or phrase multiple occurrences of a customer identity product name or service or multiple occurrences of some other information that might indicate a trend. Further the trend analysis component may be able to identify escalations in the occurrences of particular text identities or other information or may identify multiple occurrences over a period of time. The trend analysis component may also be able to apply one or more different algorithms to occurrences of information within the social media networks . For example the trend analysis component can match the number of occurrences of a phrase or word over a period of time and apply analysis to determine if the occurrences are increasing or decreasing over the period of time.

The text processing component is operable to analyze text of one or more messages from social media networks . Some possible methods for text processing can include Regular Expression Latent Semantic Indexing LSI text part of speech tagging text clustering N Gram document analysis etc. The text processing rules or models may be stored in and or retrieved from a text processing rules database .

The text processing component can identify one or more occurrences of a particular text such as using one or more of the message fields referenced above in order to associate that social media message with one or more dialogs data structures in the heuristic rules and dialog database . For example the text processing component can look for the word manual in the social media message. If the word manual is found the text processing component may retrieve a dialog data structure from the heuristic rules and dialogs database and as the dialog data structure instructs communicate with the customer about one or more owner s manuals repair manuals or other types of manuals. In another example if the social media message includes the words buy sell price discount or other types of words that may indicate the user or customer wishes to buy a product the text processing component can retrieve one or more dialog data structures from the heuristic rules and dialogs database that can provide instruction to assist the customer in purchasing products or services from the enterprise.

The analysis tools component is operable to analyze response messages received back from an agent interface . In analyzing the agent s responses the analysis tools component can determine if the dialog data structures originally retrieved by the text processing component met the needs of the customer. In the analysis the agent may enter one or more items of information for the analysis tools component about the response and about how the response matched with the dialog data structures . The analysis tools component can review the response and determine if it was similar to the response provided by the dialog data structure . Thus the analysis tools component can provide information to the dialog core or the dialog creator to improve the dialog data structures that are included in the heuristic rules and dialogs database .

The message history database can be any database or data storage system. Thus the message history database can store data in data fields objects or other data structures to allow other systems to retrieve that information at a later time. The message history database can store previous messages or information about previous messages. Thus for example if the trend analysis component is analyzing several messages over a period of time the trend analysis component can retrieve information about previous messages associated with the current analysis from the message history database . As such the trend analysis component can better detect trends occurring at the social media networks . The data stored by the message history database can include the entire message or only a portion of the message and in some circumstances include metadata about the message s .

The heuristic rules and dialogs database can be any type of database or data storage system. The heuristic rules and dialogs database can store information in data fields data objects and or any other data structures. An example of information stored within the heuristic rules and dialogs database is described in conjunction with . The heuristic rules and dialogs database stores rules and dialogs data structures that automate responses to received social media messages. The dialogs data structures control the interaction between the dialog core and the social media networks . The dialogs or heuristic rules can be created by a dialog creator . Thus the dialog creator can interface with user input to receive information about dialogs. The user input is then used to form the states and responses for a dialog data structure.

An agent interface is a communication system operable to send action items to contact center agents in the contact center. An agent can be a person or other system that is operable to respond to certain questions or requests from a customer. For example the agent can be a person that has specialized expertise in a topic area such as technical support. The agent interface can format the social message into an action item and forward that message to one or more agents . The agent interface can also receive response s back from the agents . The information provided by the agent may be used by the dialog core to complete a response to the social media message. For example the information may classify the social media message e.g. sales service etc. . In other embodiments the response is a complete response to the social media message that can be posted to the social media networks 

The dialog data structure can be stored in several different forms of databases such as relational databases flat files object oriented databases etc. Thus while the term data field or segment is used herein the data may be stored in an object an attribute of an object or some other form of data structure. Further the dialog data structure can be stored retrieved sent or received during the processing of dialogs by the dialog core or the dialog creator . The dialog data structure stores one or more items of information in one or more segments. The numeric identifiers e.g. etc. shown in can identify the one or more segments.

The dialog data structure can include one or more input segments such as input segment 1 and input segment 2 a rules segment and or a dialog script segment . Input segments and each include one or more inputs that may be required to associate a social media message with the dialog data structure . The inputs segments and may include a customer identity a respective customer type a text word a phrase or other information that indicates that the dialog data structure is associated with or pertaining to the social media messages.

The input segments and may also include certain trends that the trend analysis component can identify. As such if a trend is identified and associated with the inputs and or the dialog data structure can be retrieved and used by the dialog core . While there are only two input segments and shown in there may be more or fewer input segments associated with the dialog data structure as indicated by ellipses .

The rules segment can include one or more heuristic rules that either help with the association of the respective dialog data structure with the social media message or control the interaction between the dialog core and the social media customer. For example the rule can state that the dialog data structure applies only if the social media message includes input segment 1 but not input segment 2 . One skilled in the art will be able to identify other types of rules that may govern the association of the dialog data structure with the social media message. In other embodiments the rules segment states that if the social media message includes inputs and or then the dialog core should respond with a certain type of action.

Generally a dialog script segment includes a script of actions or responses that direct one or more other components such as the dialog core to conduct actions or send the responses. The dialog script segment can include the one or more states and corresponding responses or actions required by the dialog core . If the dialog script segment applies that is if the social media message is requesting a certain type of information the dialog script segment may include the one or more responses that the dialog core should communicate to respond to that social media message. The dialog script segment can also include a response and a pointer to another dialog script segment or another dialog data structure . Further the dialog script segment may have one or more actions that may be taken by another component after a secondary response is received by a customer. Thus the dialog script segment can direct or instruct an interaction to continue with a social media user over a period of time and over several interactions between the user and the contact center.

It should be noted that the dialog script segment can reference one or more other dialog data structures . Thus the dialog script segment can direct the dialog core to reference at least one other dialog data structure to further act on the social media message. Further the social media message can be subject of two or more dialog script segments and direct the dialog core to complete two dialog script segments on the social media message. Also dialog script segments may not be associated with a response but direct the dialog core to complete other actions such as populating databases or gathering information. A Social Media Manager SMM dialog engine and associated dialog scripts programs may play a role in identification of a trend and in modifications to ASR grammars used by the dialog engine for the IVR and or ASR systems along with associated dialog scripts programs. The SMM dialog script application may receive an indication that a new trend has been identified or an old trend retired. The SMM dialog engine may then extract vocabulary associated with the new trend or old trend with assistance of the text analysis engine and request an update to the IVR dialog script application and or ASR engine to include or remove the vocabulary identified with the trend. In another embodiment the SMM dialog may post the information and context to a separate module that would determine the proper insertion or removal of the identified vocabulary.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow may receive social media information from one or more social media networks at block . Receiving social media information may comprise fetching social media information from the social media networks . For example all new information may be fetched from the social media networks since the most recent fetch. Alternatively a search may be performed on the social media networks for keywords phrases and other text related to the area of interest of IVR system .

The logic flow may data mine the social media information to extract one or more characteristics at block . The characteristics may comprise trends new topics sentimental spikes and any other relevant characteristics. The characteristics may be determined according to an area of interest for the IVR system .

The logic flow may infer a trend from the extracted one or more characteristics at block . A trend may indicate a change in the social media response to a particular topic the social media attention paid to a particular topic or the emergence of a new topic within social media. A trend may generally indicate that a topic is increasing in importance. A topic increasing in importance may correspond to the topic being more important for a business related to the contact center being more important to customers of a business related to the contact center or otherwise increasing the amount of interest the contact center is predicted to receive in relation to the topic.

The logic flow may adjust an interactive voice response IVR tree based upon the inferred trend at block .

Adjusting the IVR tree may comprise moving a first option of the plurality of options from a later spot to an earlier spot in the IVR tree based upon the inferred trend indicating an increased importance of a topic related to the first option. Alternatively adjusting the IVR tree may comprise creating a new option in the plurality of options based upon the inferred trend indicating an increased importance of a topic related to the new option. Where a new option is created the logic flow may further comprise creating a new queue in a contact center for the new option. Alternatively adjusting the IVR tree may comprise alerting a maintainer of the IVR tree of an increased importance of a topic receiving a new option for the plurality of options from the maintainer of the IVR tree and inserting the new option into the plurality of options.

In some embodiments the adjustment to the IVR tree may have a limited duration. The logic flow may therefore further comprise estimating a persistence of the inferred trend and determining the limited duration of the adjustment to the IVR tree based on the estimated persistence.

In some embodiments the logic flow may further comprise receiving an incoming call from a user and performing the adjusted IVR tree for the user.

In some embodiments the logic flow may further receive additional social media information from the one or more social media networks . Data mine the additional social media information to extract one or more additional characteristics infer a second trend from the extracted one or more additional characteristics and return the first option of the plurality of options to the later spot based upon the inferred second trend indicating a decreased importance of the topic related to the first option.

The device may comprise any electronic device capable of receiving processing and sending information for the IVR system . Examples of an electronic device may include without limitation an ultra mobile device a mobile device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile computing device a smart phone a telephone a digital telephone a cellular telephone ebook readers a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a netbook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a mini computer a main frame computer a supercomputer a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system multiprocessor systems processor based systems consumer electronics programmable consumer electronics game devices television digital television set top box wireless access point base station subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller router hub gateway bridge switch machine or combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The device may execute processing operations or logic for the IVR system using a processing component . The processing component may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processor circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

The device may execute communications operations or logic for the IVR system using communications component . The communications component may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols such as techniques suitable for use with packet switched networks e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth circuit switched networks e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of packet switched networks and circuit switched networks with suitable gateways and translators . The communications component may include various types of standard communication elements such as one or more communications interfaces network interfaces network interface cards NIC radios wireless transmitters receivers transceivers wired and or wireless communication media physical connectors and so forth. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired communications media and wireless communications media. Examples of wired communications media may include a wire cable metal leads printed circuit boards PCB backplanes switch fabrics semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optics a propagated signal and so forth. Examples of wireless communications media may include acoustic radio frequency RF spectrum infrared and other wireless media.

The device may communicate with other devices over a communications media respectively using communications signals respectively via the communications component . The devices may be internal or external to the device as desired for a given implementation. For example device may comprise social media network such that signals sent over media may comprise social media information or a portion of social media information retrieved from social media network . Device may comprise a caller communicating with the IVR performance component for the performance of the IVR tree via a voice call such that signals sent over media comprises the voice call. Media may therefore correspond to the Internet such that signals comprise a Voice over IP VoIP transaction. Alternatively media may correspond to a telephone network such as a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS telephone network. It will be appreciated that a voice call between a device and IVR system may be performed using any known technique for voice communication.

The distributed system may comprise a client device and a server device . In general the client device and the server device may be the same or similar to the client device as described with reference to . For instance the client system and the server system may each comprise a processing component and a communications component which are the same or similar to the processing component and the communications component respectively as described with reference to . In another example the devices may communicate over a communications media using communications signals via the communications components .

The client device may comprise or employ one or more client programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the client device may implement the social media gateway . The server device may comprise or employ one or more server programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the server device may implement the adjustment component . Signals sent over media may therefore comprise the transmission of the filtered social media information from the social media gateway to the adjustment component .

Included herein is a set of flow charts representative of exemplary methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed architecture. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the one or more methodologies shown herein for example in the form of a flow chart or flow diagram are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

As used in this application the terms system and component are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution examples of which are provided by the exemplary computing architecture . For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further components may be communicatively coupled to each other by various types of communications media to coordinate operations. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the components may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Exemplary connections include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces.

The computing architecture includes various common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components power supplies and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to implementation by the computing architecture .

As shown in the computing architecture comprises a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors including without limitation an AMD Athlon Duron and Opteron processors ARM application embedded and secure processors IBM and Motorola DragonBall and PowerPC processors IBM and Sony Cell processors Intel Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and XScale processors and similar processors. Dual microprocessors multi core processors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus provides an interface for system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. Interface adapters may connect to the system bus via a slot architecture. Example slot architectures may include without limitation Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and the like.

The computing architecture may comprise or implement various articles of manufacture. An article of manufacture may comprise a computer readable storage medium to store logic. Examples of a computer readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of logic may include executable computer program instructions implemented using any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code object oriented code visual code and the like. Embodiments may also be at least partly implemented as instructions contained in or on a non transitory computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors to enable performance of the operations described herein.

The system memory may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information. In the illustrated embodiment shown in the system memory can include non volatile memory and or volatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in the non volatile memory .

The computer may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more lower speed memory units including an internal or external hard disk drive HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD to read from or write to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive to read from or write to a removable optical disk e.g. a CD ROM or DVD . The HDD FDD and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a HDD interface an FDD interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The HDD interface for external drive implementations can include at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies.

The drives and associated computer readable media provide volatile and or nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For example a number of program modules can be stored in the drives and memory units including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . In one embodiment the one or more application programs other program modules and program data can include for example the various applications and or components of the IVR system .

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wire wireless input devices for example a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices may include microphones infra red IR remote controls radio frequency RF remote controls game pads stylus pens card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors styluses and the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface and so forth.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adaptor . The monitor may be internal or external to the computer . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices such as speakers printers and so forth.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wire and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wire wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks for example a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network for example the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a wire and or wireless communication network interface or adaptor . The adaptor can facilitate wire and or wireless communications to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless functionality of the adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wire and or wireless device connects to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with wire and wireless devices or entities using the IEEE 802 family of standards such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. IEEE 802.7 over the air modulation techniques . This includes at least Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity WiMax and Bluetooth wireless technologies among others. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.7x a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wire networks which use IEEE 802.3 related media and functions .

As shown in the communications architecture comprises includes one or more clients and servers . The clients may implement the client device . The servers may implement the server device . The clients and the servers are operatively connected to one or more respective client data stores and server data stores that can be employed to store information local to the respective clients and servers such as cookies and or associated contextual information.

The clients and the servers may communicate information between each other using a communication framework . The communications framework may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols. The communications framework may be implemented as a packet switched network e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth a circuit switched network e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of a packet switched network and a circuit switched network with suitable gateways and translators .

The communications framework may implement various network interfaces arranged to accept communicate and connect to a communications network. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and the like token ring wireless network interfaces cellular network interfaces IEEE 802.7a x network interfaces IEEE 802.16 network interfaces IEEE 802.20 network interfaces and the like. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types. For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and unicast networks. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and capacity distributed network controller architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by clients and the servers . A communications network may be any one and the combination of wired and or wireless networks including without limitation a direct interconnection a secured custom connection a private network e.g. an enterprise intranet a public network e.g. the Internet a Personal Area Network PAN a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network a cellular network and other communications networks.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression one embodiment or an embodiment along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

With general reference to notations and nomenclature used herein the detailed descriptions herein may be presented in terms of program procedures executed on a computer or network of computers. These procedural descriptions and representations are used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art.

A procedure is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. These operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It proves convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be noted however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to those quantities.

Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as adding or comparing which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations described herein which form part of one or more embodiments. Rather the operations are machine operations. Useful machines for performing operations of various embodiments include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

Various embodiments also relate to apparatus or systems for performing these operations. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purpose or it may comprise a general purpose computer as selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. The procedures presented herein are not inherently related to a particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose machines may be used with programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these machines will appear from the description given.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

