---

title: Systems and methods for tracking a slide using a composite barcode label
abstract: Systems and methods for tracking a slide comprising a tissue sample. In an embodiment, data is received from a Laboratory Information System (LIS) barcode associated with a slide and a proprietary barcode generated by a slide staining system, such as a Ventana slide staining system, to track the slide through the staining process. A new label is printed that contains both the LIS barcode and the proprietary barcode, and is attached to the slide. When the slide is subsequently scanned by a slide scanning system, the slide scanning system reads and decodes the LIS barcode to obtain a LIS barcode value. The LIS barcode value may then be used to retrieve information associated with the slide.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384192&OS=09384192&RS=09384192
owner: LEICA BIOSYSTEMS IMAGING, INC.
number: 09384192
owner_city: Vista
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application is a National Stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application PCT US13 032328 filed on Mar. 13 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent App. No. 61 675 741 filed on Jul. 25 2012. The entirety of each application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The systems and methods disclosed herein relate generally to the tracking of pathology slides and more particularly to tracking pathology slides which are associated with two different barcodes for two different systems.

Some conventional automated slide stainers such as those produced by Ventana Medical Systems Inc. and sold under the trademark Ventana require proprietary barcodes to automate the process of staining tissue samples. For example Ventana systems generate a label comprising a one dimensional barcode which is physically placed on a slide containing a tissue sample. In this manner the staining system is able to identify and manage the slide during automated staining. The Ventana barcode encodes a number which is only meaningful to Ventana systems.

Typically prior to staining and the application of the Ventana barcode label a first barcode label has already been placed on the slide. This first barcode label is usually associated with the source of the tissue sample e.g. a patient . It may be a Laboratory Information System LIS barcode generated by a histology or other laboratory and placed on the slide to maintain an association of the slide with its source for tracking purposes. LIS barcodes are generally two dimensional or matrix barcodes e.g. a Quick Response QR code .

In practice at least in part due to limited space on the slide the Ventana barcode label is physically placed over the LIS barcode label thereby obscuring the LIS barcode label. Once the LIS barcode is obscured it is unable to be read and tracked by systems which must process the slide following application of the Ventana barcode label e.g. following the Ventana staining process . For instance after a tissue sample on a slide has been stained the slide is often digitized by a scanning system.

Ventana maintains tight confidentiality as to the meaning of the number embedded in its proprietary barcode. Thus in practice if a histology laboratory desires to use a digital pathology scanning system other than a Ventana scanning system it must peel the Ventana barcode label off of the slide and or re label the slide in order to restore the ability to track the slide using the LIS barcode. In some cases the information must be manually written on the slide. In either case such a situation introduces workflow inefficiencies and opportunities for errors to occur.

Therefore one objective of the present disclosure is to eliminate this need to peel off labels or re enter data following a staining process requiring a proprietary barcode label while maintaining the ability to track a slide throughout a digital pathology scanning process using data from an LIS barcode. Embodiments disclosed herein improve reliability and accuracy and allow non proprietary equipment to automatically retrieve LIS data.

Accordingly a method for tracking a slide is disclosed. In an embodiment the method comprises by at least one hardware processor receiving Laboratory Information System LIS data from a first LIS barcode receiving proprietary data from a first proprietary barcode and generating a composite barcode label comprising a second LIS barcode and a second proprietary barcode wherein the second LIS barcode comprises the LIS data and the second proprietary barcode comprises the proprietary data and by a digital pathology slide scanning system scanning the second LIS barcode while scanning a slide decoding the second LIS barcode to obtain the LIS data and retrieving information from at least one database based on the LIS data.

Furthermore a system for tracking a slide is disclosed. In an embodiment the system comprises at least one hardware processor that receives Laboratory Information System LIS data decoded from a first LIS barcode receives proprietary data decoded from a first proprietary barcode and generates a composite barcode label comprising a second LIS barcode and a second proprietary barcode wherein the second LIS barcode comprises the LIS data and the second proprietary barcode comprises the proprietary data and a digital pathology slide scanning system that scans the second LIS barcode while scanning a slide decodes the second LIS barcode to obtain the LIS data and retrieves information from at least one database based on the LIS data.

Barcodes comprise encoded or embedded data. A barcode reader scans and translates the barcode into the embedded data. This data may comprise for example a string of alphanumeric or other characters. In the case of an LIS barcode illustrated in the embedded data may comprise a string of letters numbers and or other characters e.g. SX08 12345 S123 coz . In the case of a Ventana barcode illustrated in the embedded data comprises a string of numbers e.g. 025522 . While embodiments are discussed herein with reference to Ventana stainers or barcodes it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods are not limited to a specific brand of stainer or barcode. Rather the disclosed systems and methods may be used with any brand of stainer and barcode as well as other types of systems and encodings.

According to an embodiment a barcode reader is provided at the time that the proprietary barcode label e.g. Ventana barcode would normally be applied to a slide e.g. by overlaying it on an LIS barcode label already adhered to the slide . For example the barcode reader may be provided next to a proprietary barcode printer. The barcode reader may comprise any conventional barcode reading system. For instance it may comprise a wand which reads barcodes using a laser. Alternatively the barcode reader may comprise an imaging device or an application residing on a device comprising an imaging device which captures an image of the barcode for example using a camera or other optical viewing device. Barcode readers are well known in the art and even ubiquitous on consumer devices such as mobile phones and tablets. The particular implementation of barcode reading is not essential to the disclosed embodiments and will not be discussed herein in detail.

When a slide arrives at a staining station which may comprise a Ventana or other staining system it is typically already labeled with an LIS barcode. A technician enters data into the Ventana or other proprietary software to generate a Ventana or other proprietary barcode. At this point prior to application of the proprietary barcode both the LIS and proprietary barcodes are available and accessible to the technician. Thus according to an embodiment the technician uses the barcode reader to read both the LIS and proprietary barcodes either serially or simultaneously.

The barcode reader may be communicatively connected to a software application e.g. via one or more application programming interfaces APIs . The application receives the embedded data of each of the LIS and proprietary barcodes from the barcode reader. The application may generate a user interface to be displayed on a display device such as a computer monitor. For instance the application may reside on a computer system comprising a central processing unit CPU memory and a display. The computer may also have network access including access to one or more databases. The computer system may further comprise or be interfaced with a barcode wand or imaging device and may execute a barcode reading or translating application. The computer may also comprise or be interfaced with a barcode label printer. The computer or application may be installed in proximity to the proprietary stainer or barcode printer.

The application may prompt a technician via the user interface to indicate which barcode is the LIS barcode and which is the Ventana or other proprietary barcode. Alternatively the application may be able to automatically determine which barcode is which. For example since the LIS barcode and proprietary barcode may utilize different formats e.g. two dimensional v. one dimensional or contain embedded data in different formats e.g. different lengths allowable characters patterns and the like the application may be able to differentiate the two types of barcodes without user intervention. The application may store or access preset rules for differentiating the two types of barcodes. These rules may be configurable or selectable by an operator of the system.

The application receives the data embedded in the two barcodes e.g. from a barcode reading application and generates corresponding barcodes for printing. The generated barcodes may be identical or different in format and or encoding from the original scanned barcodes. Alternatively the application may receive a digital image of the scanned barcodes and print these digital images on the composite label without ever having to decode the barcodes.

In response to a user interaction e.g. pressing of a print button on the user interface the application may initiate printing of a composite barcode label or the specified number of composite barcode labels in embodiments which allow printing of multiple copies of the label . The application may interface with a barcode label printer and initiate printing by sending the images or data to be printed to the printer.

As demonstrated in the composite barcode label may comprise two barcodes. One barcode will comprise an encoding of the data from the LIS barcode. The other barcode will comprise an encoding of the data from the proprietary barcode.

According to an embodiment when a slide arrives at a digital pathology scanning station which may comprise an Aperio ScanScope slide scanner or other scanner the scanner can scan the LIS barcode on the composite barcode label. The LIS barcode may be scanned either as the scanner scans the sample e.g. tissue sample on the slide or separately before or after scanning the sample on the slide. A barcode reading module or application which may be stored on a memory of the digital pathology slide scanner can then extract the data embedded in the LIS barcode. For example the module may decode the LIS barcode resulting in a character string.

The digital pathology slide scanner may have network access to one or more databases. Thus a barcode reading module or another module or application residing on a memory of the digital pathology slide scanner and executed by a processor of the slide scanner can query the one or more databases via at least one network to which the slide scanner is connected. For example the module may query the databases via one or more networks using the data decoded from the LIS barcode as a key. In this manner the LIS barcode data can be used to retrieve further information about the slide. For example this information may be retrieved from an LIS database storing a plurality of data associated with the value encoded in the LIS barcode. The data may comprise information about a patient associated with e.g. comprising the source of the slide sample. Alternatively or additionally the data may comprise any other information which may be usefully associated with a slide.

In step 3 the histo technician prints a new composite barcode label that contains both the LIS barcode and the proprietary barcode and attaches the composite barcode label to the slide. The slide is stained or otherwise processed by a Ventana or other proprietary system using the proprietary barcode on the composite barcode label. Then the slide is brought to a digital pathology scanning station to be digitized.

In step 4 at the scanning station the LIS barcode is read. For instance the LIS barcode may be digitized by a digital pathology slide scanning system along with the sample on the slide and then decoded by a barcode reading module of the slide scanning system.

In step 5 the value obtained by the digital pathology slide scanning system from the LIS barcode is sent as a parameter in a request or query to a server storing LIS information. In response to the query the server may use the LIS value as a key to retrieve associated LIS information. The server may then return the LIS information which may comprise patient data or other information to the slide scanner. Additionally the digital slide image that results from scanning the slide may also be associated with the LIS barcode or the LIS information.

Data processor may also be communicatively connected to and provide instructions to a stage controller which controls a motorized stage of the digital pathology slide scanner . The motorized stage supports sample and moves in one or more directions in the X Y plane. Data processor may also be communicatively connected to and provide instructions to a piezo controller which controls a piezo positioner . The piezo positioner is configured to move the objective lens in the Z direction. The digital pathology slide scanner also comprises a light source and or illumination optics to illuminate the sample either from above or below.

The digital pathology scanner may also comprise additional elements such as fluorescence filter cube and or a motorized nosepiece . The motorized nosepiece may be controlled by a nosepiece controller and the nosepiece controller may communicate with data processor . In addition the data processor may be communicatively connected with and control light source and or illumination optics . In an embodiment the digital pathology scanner may further comprise a local display monitor and input device e.g. keyboard and or mouse .

The system preferably includes one or more processors such as processor . Additional processors may be provided such as an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms e.g. digital signal processor a slave processor subordinate to the main processing system e.g. back end processor an additional microprocessor or controller for dual or multiple processor systems or a coprocessor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors or may be integrated with the processor . Examples of processors which may be used with system include without limitation the Pentium processor Core i7 processor and Xeon processor all of which are available from Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif.

The processor is preferably connected to a communication bus . The communication bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of the system . The communication bus further may provide a set of signals used for communication with the processor including a data bus address bus and control bus not shown . The communication bus may comprise any standard or non standard bus architecture such as for example bus architectures compliant with industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus or standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and the like.

System preferably includes a main memory and may also include a secondary memory . The main memory provides storage of instructions and data for programs executing on the processor such as one or more of the functions and or modules discussed above. It should be understood that programs stored in the memory and executed by processor may be written and or compiled according to any suitable language including without limitation C C Java JavaScript Perl Visual Basic .NET and the like. The main memory is typically semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM . Other semiconductor based memory types include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and the like including read only memory ROM .

The secondary memory may optionally include an internal memory and or a removable medium for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disc CD drive a digital versatile disc DVD drive other optical drive a flash memory drive etc. The removable medium is read from and or written to in a well known manner. Removable storage medium may be for example a floppy disk magnetic tape CD DVD SD card etc.

The removable storage medium is a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable code i.e. software and or data. The computer software or data stored on the removable storage medium is read into the system for execution by the processor .

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other data or instructions to be loaded into the system . Such means may include for example an external storage medium and an interface . Examples of external storage medium may include an external hard disk drive or an external optical drive or and external magneto optical drive.

Other examples of secondary memory may include semiconductor based memory such as programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory block oriented memory similar to EEPROM . Also included are any other removable storage media and communication interface which allow software and data to be transferred from an external medium to the system .

System may include a communication interface . The communication interface allows software and data to be transferred between system and external devices e.g. printers networks or information sources. For example computer software or executable code may be transferred to system from a network server via communication interface . Examples of communication interface include a built in network adapter network interface card NIC Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter Universal Serial Bus USB network adapter modem a network interface card NIC a wireless data card a communications port an infrared interface an IEEE 1394 fire wire or any other device capable of interfacing system with a network or another computing device.

Communication interface preferably implements industry promulgated protocol standards such as Ethernet IEEE 802 standards Fiber Channel digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous digital subscriber line ADSL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on but may also implement customized or non standard interface protocols as well.

Software and data transferred via communication interface are generally in the form of electrical communication signals . These signals are preferably provided to communication interface via a communication channel . In one embodiment the communication channel may be a wired or wireless network or any variety of other communication links. Communication channel carries signals and can be implemented using a variety of wired or wireless communication means including wire or cable fiber optics conventional phone line cellular phone link wireless data communication link radio frequency RF link or infrared link just to name a few.

Computer executable code i.e. computer programs or software is stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via communication interface and stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described.

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any non transitory computer readable storage media used to provide computer executable code e.g. software and computer programs to the system . Examples of these media include main memory secondary memory including internal memory removable medium and external storage medium and any peripheral device communicatively coupled with communication interface including a network information server or other network device . These non transitory computer readable mediums are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the system .

In an embodiment that is implemented using software the software may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into the system by way of removable medium I O interface or communication interface . In such an embodiment the software is loaded into the system in the form of electrical communication signals . The software when executed by the processor preferably causes the processor to perform the inventive features and functions previously described herein.

In an embodiment I O interface provides an interface between one or more components of system and one or more input and or output devices. Example input devices include without limitation keyboards touch screens or other touch sensitive devices biometric sensing devices computer mice trackballs pen based pointing devices and the like. Examples of output devices include without limitation cathode ray tubes CRTs plasma displays light emitting diode LED displays liquid crystal displays LCDs printers vacuum florescent displays VFDs surface conduction electron emitter displays SEDs field emission displays FEDs and the like.

The system also includes optional wireless communication components that facilitate wireless communication over a voice and over a data network. The wireless communication components comprise an antenna system a radio system and a baseband system . In the system radio frequency RF signals are transmitted and received over the air by the antenna system under the management of the radio system .

In one embodiment the antenna system may comprise one or more antennae and one or more multiplexors not shown that perform a switching function to provide the antenna system with transmit and receive signal paths. In the receive path received RF signals can be coupled from a multiplexor to a low noise amplifier not shown that amplifies the received RF signal and sends the amplified signal to the radio system .

In alternative embodiments the radio system may comprise one or more radios that are configured to communicate over various frequencies. In one embodiment the radio system may combine a demodulator not shown and modulator not shown in one integrated circuit IC . The demodulator and modulator can also be separate components. In the incoming path the demodulator strips away the RF carrier signal leaving a baseband receive audio signal which is sent from the radio system to the baseband system .

If the received signal contains audio information then baseband system decodes the signal and converts it to an analog signal. Then the signal is amplified and sent to a speaker. The baseband system also receives analog audio signals from a microphone. These analog audio signals are converted to digital signals and encoded by the baseband system . The baseband system also codes the digital signals for transmission and generates a baseband transmit audio signal that is routed to the modulator portion of the radio system . The modulator mixes the baseband transmit audio signal with an RF carrier signal generating an RF transmit signal that is routed to the antenna system and may pass through a power amplifier not shown . The power amplifier amplifies the RF transmit signal and routes it to the antenna system where the signal is switched to the antenna port for transmission.

The baseband system is also communicatively coupled with the processor . The central processing unit has access to data storage areas and . The central processing unit is preferably configured to execute instructions i.e. computer programs or software that can be stored in the memory or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received from the baseband processor and stored in the data storage area or in secondary memory or executed upon receipt. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described. For example data storage areas may include various software modules not shown .

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules functions and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Additionally the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium including a network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.

Any of the software components described herein may take a variety of forms. For example a component may be a stand alone software package or it may be a software package incorporated as a tool in a larger software product. It may be downloadable from a network for example a website as a stand alone product or as an add in package for installation in an existing software application. It may also be available as a client server software application as a web enabled software application and or as a mobile application.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly not limited.

