---

title: Actinide-ion sensor
abstract: An apparatus for the real-time, in-situ monitoring of actinide-ion concentrations. A working electrolyte is positioned within the interior of a container. The working electrolyte is separated from a reference electrolyte by a separator. A working electrode is at least partially in contact with the working electrolyte. A reference electrode is at least partially in contact with the reference electrolyte. A voltmeter is electrically connected to the working electrode and the reference electrode. The working electrolyte comprises an actinide-ion of interest. The separator is ionically conductive to the actinide-ion of interest. The separator comprises an actinide, Zr, and Nb. Preferably, the actinide of the separator is Am or Np, more preferably Pu. In one embodiment, the actinide of the separator is the actinide of interest. In another embodiment, the separator further comprises P and O.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08932446&OS=08932446&RS=08932446
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08932446
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130510
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 05ID14517 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and Battelle Energy Alliance.

One embodiment of the present invention relates to a real time in situ sensor for monitoring actinide ion concentration in an electrolyte. Preferably the actinide ion is plutonium ion and the electrolyte is an aqueous electrolyte. In a preferred embodiment the actinide ion concentration is monitored during the aqueous separation of spent nuclear fuel.

Nuclear reactors are becoming an increasingly necessary means of meeting the nation s energy requirements given growing concerns about traditional carbon producing methods of generating energy. A principal concern prior to the acceptance of nuclear energy is the safe management of radioactive waste during reprocessing and storage. Therefore there exists a need for in situ real time monitoring of actinide ion concentrations in aqueous solutions.

An apparatus for the real time in situ monitoring of actinide ion concentrations which comprises a working electrode a reference electrode a container a working electrolyte a separator a reference electrolyte and a voltmeter. The working electrolyte is positioned within the interior of the container. The working electrolyte is separated from the reference electrolyte. The separator at least partially separates and contacts the working electrolyte and the reference electrolyte. The working electrode is at least partially in contact with the working electrolyte. The reference electrode is at least partially in contact with the reference electrolyte. The voltmeter is electrically connected to the working electrode and the reference electrode. The working electrolyte comprises an actinide ion of interest. The separator is ionically conductive to the actinide ion of interest. The separator comprises an actinide Zr and Nb. The reference electrolyte comprises the actinide ion of interest with a known concentration. The voltmeter comprises a means for measuring the voltage between the working electrode and the reference electrode. The voltmeter comprises a means for indicating the concentration of the actinide ion of interest within the working electrolyte. Preferably the actinide of the separator is Am or Np more preferably Pu. In one embodiment the actinide of the separator is the actinide of interest. In another embodiment the separator further comprises P and O.

An apparatus for the real time in situ monitoring of actinide ion concentrations which comprises a working electrode a reference electrode a container a working electrolyte a separator a reference electrolyte and a voltmeter. The working electrolyte is positioned within the interior of the container. The working electrolyte is separated from the reference electrolyte. The separator at least partially separates and contacts the working electrolyte and the reference electrolyte. The working electrode is at least partially in contact with the working electrolyte. The reference electrode is at least partially in contact with the reference electrolyte. The voltmeter is electrically connected to the working electrode and the reference electrode. The working electrolyte comprises an actinide ion of interest. The separator is ionically conductive to the actinide ion of interest. The separator comprises an actinide Zr and Nb. The reference electrolyte comprises the actinide ion of interest with a known concentration. The voltmeter comprises a means for measuring the voltage between the working electrode and the reference electrode. The voltmeter comprises a means for indicating the concentration of the actinide ion of interest within the working electrolyte. Preferably the actinide of the separator is Am or Np more preferably Pu. In one embodiment the actinide of the separator is the actinide of interest. In another embodiment the separator further comprises P and O.

The reference electrode at least partially contacts a reference electrolyte . Preferably the reference electrode is at least partially submerged in the reference electrolyte more preferably the majority of the reference electrode is submerged in the reference electrolyte . The reference electrolyte comprises the actinide ion of interest .

The reference electrolyte is separated from the working electrolyte by a separator . The separator at least partially contacts both the working electrolyte and the reference electrolyte . The separator is preferably at least partially submerged in the working electrolyte more preferably the majority of the separator is submerged in the working electrolyte . The separator comprises an actinide Zr and Nb. The separator conducts the actinide ion of interest between the working electrolyte and the reference electrolyte . The voltmeter measure the voltage between the reference electrode and the working electrode .

The container comprises any material that does not substantially react with the working electrolyte . Preferably the material does not substantially react if the material is used continually for over one year without damage or need of repair or replacement of equipment. More preferably the container is stainless steel.

The working electrolyte is any substance comprising free ions of the actinide of interest . Preferably the working electrolyte is an acidic aqueous solution preferably nitric acid having free ions of an actinide of interest preferably Am Np Pu and U.

The actinide ion of interest is an ion or charged molecule preferably comprising at least one of the elements in spent nuclear fuel which include Th U Np Pu Am and Cm. Preferably the actinide ion of interest is Np Pu and Am. More preferably the actinide ion of interest is Pu.

The voltmeter is any device used to determine or indicate the voltage across the working electrode and reference electrode which is related to the concentration of actinide ion of interest in the working electrolyte . Exemplary embodiments of the voltmeter include a multimeter a potentiometer a galvanometer an oscilloscope and an analog to digital converter. Preferably the voltmeter comprises one or more electrical components more preferably a central processing unit microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC an analog to digital converter a voltage comparator or combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment the voltmeter is an analog to digital converter connected to a microcontroller central processing unit CPU having a display e.g. . In an alternative embodiment the voltmeter is an electrical circuit configured to output light in relation to voltage across the working electrode and reference electrode e.g. . Preferably the voltmeter provides a high impedance across the working electrode and reference electrode as close to an open circuit infinite impedance as possible to prevent any electrical current between the working electrode and the reference electrode .

The working electrode is made from any electrically conductive material which is not substantially reactive with the working electrolyte . Preferably the material is not substantially reactive if the material is used continually for over one year without damage or need of repair or replacement of equipment. More preferably the working electrode is made of Ta W Pt or a combination thereof.

The reference electrode is made from any electrically conductive material which is not substantially reactive with the ionic environment of the reference electrolyte . Preferably the material is not substantially reactive if the material is used continually for over one year without damage or need of repair or replacement of equipment. More preferably the reference electrode is made of Ta W Pt or a combination thereof.

The reference electrolyte is a compound or solution with a known concentration of the actinide ion of interest . Preferably the reference electrolyte is any substance comprising free ions of the actinide of interest . In one embodiment the reference electrolyte comprises aqueous solutions with known Pu ion concentrations. In yet another alternative embodiment the reference electrolyte may further comprise a nitric acid solution with dissolved Pu or actinides.

The separator is made into a configuration sufficient to separate the reference electrolyte from the working electrolyte and ionically conductive to the actinide ion of interest . Ionically conductive refers to ionic conduction of the actinide ion of interest through all or a portion of the separator . Preferably the separator has an ionic conductivity to the actinide ion of interest greater than 10S cm. Preferably the separator is made into a tube with a single closed end. In an alternative embodiment the separator is made from a disk cemented to one open end of a tube. Other shapes and configuration may also be used. Preferred embodiments encompass a separator made from a plurality of portions whereby one or more of the plurality of portions are ionically conductive to the actinide ion of interest .

The separator comprises an actinide Zr and Nb. More preferably the separator comprises the actinide of interest Zr and Nb. In another embodiment the separator comprises the actinide of interest Zr Nb P and O. In a preferred embodiment the separator consists essentially of an actinide preferably Am Np or the actinide of interest more preferably Pu Zr and Nb. In a preferred embodiment the separator consists of an actinide preferably Am Np or the actinide of interest more preferably Pu Zr and Nb. In a preferred embodiment the separator consists essentially of an actinide preferably Am Np or the actinide of interest more preferably Pu Zr Nb P and O. In a more preferred embodiment the separator consists of an actinide preferably Am Np or the actinide of interest more preferably Pu Zr Nb P and O.

The separator is preferably produced by mixing the actinide Zr and Nb into a solution preferably also further comprising P and O. The resulting solution is then mixed with ethanol first dried calcinated milled second dried die pressed and sintered. Preferably the solution is mixed in ethanol for at least 24 hours at 200 rpm or more. Preferably the calcination is at 1 000 to 1 300 C. for at least 12 hours. Preferably the milling is 80 rpm or more for at least 24 hours. Preferably the die pressing is at 6 000 psi or more. Preferably the sintering is at least 1 300 C. for 24 hours or more. Preferably the separator has the formula AZrNb PO where A is the actinide preferably Am Np or the actinide of interest more preferably Pu. In a preferred embodiment the separator has the formula AZrNb PO . In another embodiment the separator has the formula AZrNb where A is the actinide preferably Am Np or the actinide of interest more preferably Pu.

Stoichiometric amounts of powder are mixed together in a polyurethane bottle. The hydration of each chemical is calculated and factored into the amount. Care has to be made to ensure that there are no amalgamates of cerium sulfate powder or ammonium hydrogen phosphate. The chemicals used are 

The powder mixture is then pressed into pellets and calcined on an alumina plate preferably with a heating profile of 1000 C. for 12 hours 1 200 C. for 12 hours and then 1 300 C. for 12 hours with a heating and cooling rate of 5 C. min. The powder is then ground preferably hand ground in a mortar and pestle mixed pressed and fired again at 1 300 C. for twelve hours to decrease the amount of second phase. This process can also be repeated to further reduce some second phase material. The resulting powder is then hand ground and wet ball milled preferably for at least 24 hours to reduce the particle size.

In order to produce a disc additional processing is necessary. 3 wt of paraffin wax is dissolved in a beaker with xylene heated preferably to 40 C. NASICON is then mixed into the solution. Next the mixture is heated and continuously hand stirred until the xylene evaporates. This process coats the powder in paraffin wax and eases pressing but is not necessary to make discs.

Following the waxing process the powder coated in paraffin wax is weighed and is pressed into a disc using a uniaxial die using an applied at force of preferably 5 6MT for a disk with a diameter of about 3.81 cm and 1.5MT for a disk with a diameter of about 2.54 cm. The discs are then sintered on an alumina plate preferably at 1 300 C. for 12 hours. After sintering the surfaces are grinded preferably using 60 grit grinding paper to remove any contamination and to roughen the surface. The surface may need to be further roughened by scrapping a piece of alumina or a similarly hard material over the intended electrode area. This process is done to increase the likelihood of adhesion.

A thin layer preferably approximately 20 30 microns of platinum ink is applied by a paint brush to an area equal to that of the inner diameter of the intended o ring to use. A mask is used to give a consistent area. A strip of platinum ink preferably approximately 5 mm wide is also painted from the edge of the disc to the electrode. This is later used as an electrical connection. The electrode is applied concentrically on both sides of the disc with the platinum strip on each side deliberately offset from one another. It is air dried and then heated preferably to 900 C. with no dwell time and more preferably a heating and cooling rate of 5 C. min. Delamination can be minimized by increasing the surface roughness further.

In this embodiment the separator is made into a configuration sufficient to separate the reference electrolyte from the working electrolyte while also ionically conductive to the actinide ion of interest . Ionically conductive refers to ionic conduction through all or a portion of the separator with respect to the actinide ion of interest .

In this embodiment the separator is made from two portions a disk and a tube . The separator is formed by cementing the disk to one open end of a tube . The reference electrolyte is separated from the working electrolyte by the separator . Preferably the disk and a tube of the separator form a vessel having an interior comprising the reference electrolyte and an exterior at least partially contacting the working electrolyte . The separator at least partially contacts both the working electrolyte and the reference electrolyte . Preferably the disk contacts the working electrolyte . More preferably the separator is submerged in the working electrolyte so that the disk is fully submerged in the working electrolyte and the tube contacts the working electrolyte . Yet more preferably the separator is submerged in the working electrolyte so that the disk is fully submerged in the working electrolyte and the majority of the tube is submerged in the working electrolyte .

In one embodiment the disk is made of a material comprising an actinide Zr and Nb and the tube is made from a material that does not substantially conduct the actinide ion of interest . Preferably the material that does not substantially conduct the actinide ion of interest is glass coated AlO. The result is a separator in which substantially all ionic conduction with respect to the actinide ion of interest occurs through the disk .

In an alternative embodiment both the disk and the tube are made from an actinide ion of interest conducting material preferably comprising an actinide Zr and Nb. The result is a separator in which ionic conduction with respect to the actinide ion of interest occurs through portions of the disk portions of the tube or a combination thereof.

In an alternative embodiment the tube is made of a material comprising an actinide Zr and Nb and the disk is made from a material that does not substantially conduct the actinide ion of interest . Preferably the material that does not substantially conduct the actinide ion of interest is glass coated AlO. The result is a separator in which substantially all ionic conduction with respect to the actinide ion of interest occurs through the tube .

In an alternative embodiment the separator is made from a plurality of actinide ion of interest conductors and actinide ion of interest substantially non conductor portions. At least one actinide ion of interest conductor portion contacts both the working electrolyte and the reference electrolyte . Preferably the material that does not substantially conduct the actinide ion of interest is glass coated AlO.

In this embodiment the voltmeter comprises an analog to digital converter a CPU and a display . Preferably the communication between the analog to digital converter the CPU and the display is accomplished via one or more wires busses wireless communication technologies etc. In a preferred embodiment the CPU is connected to the analog to digital converter and the display via one or more wires.

The CPU is any means for calculating the actinide ion of interest concentration in the working electrolyte more preferably a personal computer a laptop a microcontroller or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . Preferably the CPU comprises a microcontroller having a built in analog to digital converter for example the microcontroller manufactured by Atmel sold under the trademark ATMEGA128. In an alternate embodiment the CPU comprises a comparator e.g. LM339 .

The CPU calculates the relative or absolute actinide ion of interest concentration in the working electrolyte from the voltage measured by the analog to digital converter . In one embodiment the calculated actinide ion of interest calculation is absolute meaning the actinide ion of interest concentration in the working electrolyte . In an alternative embodiment the calculated actinide ion of interest is a relative value meaning the actinide ion of interest concentration with respect to a reference solution comprising the actinide ion of interest or with respect to a specified actinide ion of interest concentration or concentration range. In one embodiment the specified actinide ion of interest concentration or concentration range is coded into the programming. In an alternative embodiment the specified actinide ion of interest concentration or concentration range is inputted by the user through a user interference for example a keyboard touch screen or dial.

Preferably the actinide ion of interest concentration in the working electrolyte is calculated using the Nernst equation which can be written to relate the measured voltage E to the unknown mole fraction of the actinide ion of interest in the working electrolyte X WE as shown in Eq. 1 

where Eis the standard electrode potential for the cell R is the gas constant T is the temperature in Kelvin Z is the charge of the actinide ion of interest F is Faraday s constant A is constant and WE is activity coefficient of the actinide ion of interest in the working electrolyte . The mole fraction indicates the actinide ion of interest concentration because it is the number of moles of the actinide ion of interest over the total moles of the solution.

In an alternative embodiment the CPU calculates the actinide ion of interest concentration in the working electrolyte as discussed above but also compares the calculated concentration value to a target concentration concentration range or calibration curve. In one embodiment the target concentration or concentration range is coded into the programming. In an alternative embodiment the target concentration or concentration range is input by the user.

In an alternative embodiment the voltage between the reference electrode and the working electrode detected by the analog to digital converter is communicated to the CPU . The CPU compares the voltage measurement to a target voltage or specified voltage range. In one embodiment the target voltage or specified voltage range is coded into the programming. In an alternative embodiment the target voltage or specified voltage range is input by the user.

The CPU communicates the calculated actinide ion of interest concentration to the display to be displayed. Preferably the display is a personal computer display a laptop display a digital display an LED display a segment LED display one or more LED displays etc. Preferably a relative ratio of the actual concentration of actinide ion of interest to a predetermined maximum an absolute value of the concentration of actinides of interest or a combination thereof is displayed by the display .

In one embodiment the display is a light that activates deactivates or blinks one or more times based upon a communication received from the CPU . Preferably the light is an incandescent bulb an LED a fluorescent lamp or similar photon emitting device.

In this embodiment light electronics are electrically connected to the working electrode the reference electrode and the light . The light electronics provide a high impedance across the working electrode and reference electrode preferably using one or more operational amplifiers. In a preferred embodiment the light electronics comprises a voltage comparator e.g. LM339 .

In one embodiment a buffered operational amplifier is implemented to provide a high impedance across the working electrode and reference electrode . In a preferred embodiment an inverting or non inverting operational amplifier is used to provide a high impedance across the working electrode and reference electrode while also amplifying the voltage current to be sufficient for powering the light . In one embodiment the light electronics further comprises a means for amplifying or attenuating the voltage supplied to the light for example a voltage divider an operational amplifier one or more transistors or a combination thereof.

Preferably the light is an incandescent bulb an LED a fluorescent lamp or similar photon emitting device.

In one embodiment the light increases in brightness as the actinide ion of interest concentration decreases in the working electrolyte . As the actinide ion of interest is removed from the working electrolyte during aqueous separation the actinide ion of interest concentration decreases while the actinide ion of interest concentration in the reference electrolyte remains stable. As a result the voltage increases between the working electrode and the reference electrode increasing the brightness of the light as more of the actinide ion of interest is removed during aqueous separation. In an alternate embodiment an inverter circuit provides for an increase light as concentration of the actinide ion of interest increases. In an alternative embodiment the light includes a threshold circuit passive or active that does not supply voltage to the light unless a specified voltage is exceeded. For example a voltage comparator e.g. LM 339 or Zener diode connected in reverse polarity may be used to light the light when a predetermined voltage is exceeded. Preferably one or more resistors creating a voltage divider is used to optimize the circuit.

In a preferred embodiment user input is used to indicate when the light is toggled on or off. For example a potentiometer may be used to produce a reference voltage depended on the position of the potentiometer that is feed into a comparator e.g. LM339 with the voltage between the voltage across the working electrode and reference electrode . Preferably the reference electrode is used as a system ground. Depending on the position of the potentiometer the light may be power on off at different actinide ion of interest concentrations.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

