---

title: Photosensitive resin composition, light-shielding color filter, method of producing the same and solid-state image sensor
abstract: The invention provides a photosensitive resin composition that includes titanium black, a photopolymerizable compound, a resin A having an acid value of from 70 mgKOH/g to 250 mgKOH/g, a resin B having an acid value of from 26 mgKOH/g to 65 mgKOH/g, a photopolymerization initiator, and a solvent, the photopolymerization initiator including an oxime photopolymerization compound.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08895909&OS=08895909&RS=08895909
owner: FUJIFILM Corporation
number: 08895909
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130730
---
This application is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 12 401 632 filed Mar. 11 2009 which is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2008 069923 filed Mar. 18 2008 and Japanese Patent Application No. 2008 092582 filed Mar. 31 2008. The entire contents of these applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention relates to a photosensitive resin composition a light shielding color filter a method of producing the same and a solid state image sensor.

Color filters used in liquid crystal display devices are provided with a light shielding film called black matrix for the purpose of shielding a space between colored pixels from light improving contrast or the like. In addition solid state image sensors are also provided with a light shielding color filter for the purpose of preventing noise improving image quality or the like.

As a composition used for forming a black matrix for liquid crystal display devices or a light shielding color filter for solid state image sensors a photosensitive resin composition including a black color material such as carbon black and titanium black is known for example see Japanese Patent Application Laid Open JP A No. 10 246955 JP A No. 9 54431 JP A No. 10 46042 JP A No. 2006 36750 and JP A No. 2007 115921 .

Further a photopolymerizable composition including two or more kinds of resins having a different acid value is known as a composition that may reduce the scumming of a color filter for example see JP A No. 2000 47382 .

A first exemplary embodiment of the invention provides a photosensitive resin composition including a black colorant a photopolymerizable compound a resin a photopolymerization initiator and a solvent the composition capable of forming a light shielding color filter having a ratio OD ODof from 0.5 to 3 where ODis an optical density at a wavelength of 1200 nm and ODis an optical density at a wavelength of 365 nm.

A second exemplary embodiment of the invention provides a photosensitive resin composition including titanium black a photopolymerizable compound a resin A having an acid value of from 70 to 250 mgKOH g a resin B having an acid value of from 26 to 65 mgKOH g a photopolymerization initiator and a solvent.

The first exemplary embodiment of the invention provides a photosensitive resin composition including a black colorant a photopolymerizable compound a resin a photopolymerization initiator and a solvent the composition capable of forming a light shielding color filter having a ratio OD ODof from 0.5 to 3 where ODis an optical density at a wavelength of 1200 nm and ODis an optical density at a wavelength of 365 nm.

Black matrixes for liquid crystal display devices need to have a light shielding effect in a visible light range. On the other hand light shielding color filters for solid state image sensors need to have a light shielding effect both in an infrared region and visible light region.

Further while miniaturization of black matrixes for liquid crystal display devices have been demanded light shielding color filters for solid state image sensors in particular light shielding color filters used for a surface of a support opposite to a surface on which light receiving elements are formed hereinafter referred to as a back side sometimes need to have an ability of uniformly shielding a large area from light as compared with the black matrixes for liquid crystal display devices.

However when the above mentioned conventional photosensitive resin composition is used for a light shielding color filter having a large area a portion with a thickness less than the thickness in the center steps region may occur in the periphery of the light shielding color filter which may cause degradation in light shielding performances in the periphery.

Under such circumstances as mentioned above an object of the present exemplary embodiment is to provide a photosensitive resin composition capable of forming a light shielding color filter in which degradation in light shielding performances in the periphery is suppressed a light shielding color filter in which degradation in light shielding performances in the periphery is suppressed a method of producing the same and a solid state image sensor that exhibits less noise and excellent color reproducibility.

The photosensitive resin composition a photosensitive resin composition includes a black colorant a photopolymerizable compound a resin a photopolymerization initiator and a solvent the composition capable of forming a light shielding color filter having a ratio OD ODof from 0.5 to 3 where ODis an optical density at a wavelength of 1200 nm and ODis an optical density at a wavelength of 365 nm.

By using the photosensitive resin composition having the above composition for a light shielding color filter occurrence of step regions in the periphery of light shielding color filter may be suppressed and degradation in light shielding properties in the periphery of light shielding color filter may be suppressed.

If the above mentioned ratio of OD ODis less than 0.5 a light shielding effect in the infrared region which is necessary for light shielding color filters for solid state image sensors may not be sufficient. On the other hand if the above mentioned ratio of OD ODis more than 3 the balance between light shielding performances in the visible light region and infrared region may be lost.

The light shielding color filter in the present exemplary embodiment refers to a light shielding pattern obtained by exposing a photosensitive resin composition to light and developing it the composition including at least a black color material a photopolymerizable compound a resin a photopolymerization initiator and a solvent. The color of the light shielding color filter in the present exemplary embodiment may be an achromatic color such as black or gray or may be a chromatic color such as gray mixed with a chromatic color.

The step region in the present exemplary embodiment refers to a portion in the form of a step observed in a light shielding color filter having the size of about 50 m on a side in particular about 200 m on a side which is formed by applying a photosensitive resin composition and exposing the composition to light followed by developing it. When the light shielding color filter is observed with an optical microscope from the above of film surface the step may be seen as a line in an almost similar shape to the pattern edge of the light shielding color filter.

The film thickness of light shielding color filter in a region outside step the region sandwiched between pattern edge and step in is less than the thickness in a region inside step the region surrounded by step in . Therefore light shielding performances in the region outside step hereinafter referred to as a step region sometimes is less than the light shielding performances in the other portion. As a result adverse effects such as noises may occur when such a light shielding color filter is used in a solid state image sensor.

The optical density OD in the present exemplary embodiment is obtained by measuring the transmittance of the obtained film using an optical densiometer U 4100 trade name manufactured by Hitachi High Technologies Corporation and converting the obtained transmittance T to OD value in accordance with the following Equation 1. value Log 100 Equation 1

In the present exemplary embodiment the optical density of light shielding color filter is not particularly limited as long as the aforementioned requirements can be satisfied. However from the viewpoint of achieving the effects of the present exemplary embodiment more effectively the ratio of optical density preferably satisfies the following requirements.

Specifically the ratio of OD ODis preferably 0.5 or more and 2.5 or less more preferably 0.7 or more and 2.5 or less further preferably 1.0 or more and 2.5 or less and particularly preferably 1.3 or more and 2.0 or less.

The optical density at a wavelength of 1200 nm OD is preferably 2 or more and 10 or less 2 or more and 9 or less further preferably 3 or more and 9 or less and particularly preferably 4 or more and 9 or less.

The optical density at a wavelength of 365 nm OD is preferably 1 or more and 7 or less more preferably 1 or more and 6 or less and further preferably 2 or more and 6 or less.

The optical density at a wavelength region of 900 nm to 1300 nm is preferably 2 or more and 9 or less more preferably 2 or more and 8 or less further preferably 3 or more and 8 or less and particularly preferably 4 or more and 8 or less.

The ratio of OD ODis preferably 0.5 or more and 2.5 or less more preferably 0.7 or more and 2.5 or less further preferably 1.0 or more and 2.5 or less and particularly preferably 1.3 or more and 2.5 or less.

The ratio of OD ODis preferably 0.4 or more and 2.5 or less more preferably 0.6 or more and 2.5 or less further preferably 1.0 or more and 2.5 or less and particularly preferably 1.3 or more and 2.5 or less.

The ratio of OD ODis preferably 0.4 or more and 2.5 or less more preferably 0.5 or more and 2.5 or less further preferably 1.0 or more and 2.3 or less and particularly preferably 1.1 or more and 2.0 or less.

Each component of the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment will be explained below.

The black color material in the present exemplary embodiment may be any known black pigments or black dyes. However in particular the black color material is preferably carbon black titanium black iron oxide manganese oxide graphite or the like and among them carbon black and titanium black are more preferably from the viewpoint of realizing high optical density at small amounts.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment may contain only one kind of black color material or may contain two or more kinds.

The average particle size average primary particle size of the black color material is preferably small considering the occurrence of foreign matters or the influences on the yield in the production solid state image sensors. The average primary particle size is preferably 100 nm or less further preferably 50 nm or less and particularly preferably 30 nm or less.

The average particle size can be measured by applying a colorant onto a suitable substrate and observing it by a scanning electronic microscope.

The content of black colorant in the photosensitive resin composition is not particularly limited. However in order to obtain high optical density at a small thickness the content is preferably as high as possible specifically 5 to 98 by mass further preferably 10 to 95 by mass and particularly preferably 15 to 95 by mass.

If the content of black color material is 5 by mass or more high optical density can be obtained even at a small thickness. If the content of black colorant is 98 by mass or less light curing may be promoted more effectively film strength may be enhanced and development latitude may be extended.

The above mentioned carbon black is black fine particles containing fine particles of carbon. Preferably the particles contains carbon fine particles having a diameter of about 3 to 1 000 nm. In addition the surface of the fine particles may have various kinds of functional groups including a carbon atom a hydrogen atom an oxygen atom a sulfur atom a nitrogen atom a halogen atom other atoms of inorganic element or the like.

In addition characteristics of carbon black may be modified by changing the particle size structure association among particles surface nature functional groups or the like depending on purposes. It is also possible to change the black degree compatibility with a coating material or to impart conductivity to the particles.

Specific examples of above mentioned carbon black include for example carbon blacks manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation such as 2400 2350 2300 2200 1000 980 970 960 950 900 850 MCF88 650 MA600 MA7 MA8 MA11 MA100 MA220 IL30B IL31B IL7B IL11B IL52B 4000 4010 55 52 50 47 45 44 40 33 32 30 20 10 5 CF9 3050 3150 3250 3750 3950 DIABLACK A DIABLACK N220M DIABLACK N234 DIABLACK I DIABLACK LI DIABLACK II DIABLACK N339 DIABLACK SH DIABLACK SHA DIABLACK LH DIABLACK H DIABLACK HA DIABLACK SF DIABLACK N550M DIABLACK E DIABLACK G DIABLACK R DIABLACK N760M and DIABLACK LP 

carbon blacks manufactured by Cancurve Company such as THERMAX N990 N991 N907 N908 N990 N991 and N908 

carbon blacks manufactured by Asahi Carbon Company such as ASAHI 80 ASAHI 70 ASAHI 70L ASAHI F 200 ASAHI 66 ASAHI 66HN ASAHI 60H ASAHI 60U ASAHI 60 ASAHI 55 ASAHI 50H ASAHI 51 ASAHI 50U ASAHI 50 ASAHI 35 ASAHI 15 and ASAHI THERMAL 

carbon blacks manufactured by Degussa Company such as COLORBLACK FW200 COLORBLACK FW2 COLORBLACK FW2V COLORBLACK FW1 COLORBLACK FW18 COLORBLACK S170 COLORBLACK S160 SPECIAL BLACK 6 SPECIAL BLACK 5 SPECIAL BLACK 4 SPECIAL BLACK 4A PRINTEX U PRINTEX V PRINTEX 140U and PRINTEX 140V 

carbon blacks manufactured by Cabot Japan K.K. such as SHOBLACK N134 SHOBLACK N110 SHOBLACK N234 SHOBLACK N220 SHOBLACK N219 SHOBLACK N285 SHOBLACK N339 SHOBLACK N330 SHOBLACK N326 SHOBLACK N351 SHOBLACK N330T SHOBLACK IP200 SHOBLACK IP300 SHOBLACK MAF SHOBLACK N500 and SHOBLACK N762 

carbon blacks manufactured by Shinnikka Carbon Co. Ltd. such as NITERON 300 NITERON 200 NITERON 200H NITERON 200IS and NITERON 200L 

carbon blacks manufactured by Tokai Carbon Co. Ltd. such as SEAST 9H SEAST 9 SEAST 7HM SEAST 6 SEAST 600 SEAST 5H SEAST KH SEAST 3H SEAST 3 SEAST 300 SEAST NH SEAST N SEAST 3M SEAST SVH SEAST 116HM SEAST 116 SEAST SO SEAST F SEAST FM SEAST V and SEAST S and

carbon blacks manufactured by Cabot Corporation such as VULCAN 10H VULCAN 9 VULCAN 7H VULCAN 6 VULCAN 6LM REGAL 300 VULCAN M VULCAN 3H VULCAN 4H VULCAN J VULCAN 3 VULCANN 299 STERLING SO STERLING V STERLING VH STERLING 142 STERLING NS and REGAL SRF.

In addition specific examples of the carbon black include those manufactured by Columbian Chemicals those manufactured by Engineered Carbon Inc. those manufactured by Sid Richardson CARBON ENERGY Co. and the like.

The carbon black having insulation properties refers to carbon black that shows insulation properties when the volume resististivity thereof as powders is measured in accordance with the following method. Carbon black having insulation properties has an organic compound on the surface of particles thereof for example by means of adsorption covering or chemical bonding grafting .

Specifically a coating composition is prepared by dispersing carbon black and a copolymer of benzyl methacrylate and methacrylic acid copolymerized at a molar ratio of 70 30 mass average molecular weight 30 000 in propylene glycol monomethyl ether at a mass ratio of 20 80 carbon black copolymer . The coating composition is applied onto a chromium substrate of 1.1 mm thick and 10 cm 10 cm to prepare a coating film having a dry film thickness of 3 m. The coating film is heated at 220 C. for about 5 minutes with a hot plate and the volume resistivity is measured by applying a current with a high resistivity meter HIRESTA UP MCP HT450 manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation in compliance with JISK6911 at 23 C. and 65 relative humidity. The volume resistivity of carbon black is preferably 10 cm or more more preferably 10 cm or more and particularly preferably 10 cm or more.

Examples of the carbon black having the above insulating properties include resin coated carbon black disclosed in for example JP A No. 11 60988 JP A No. 11 60989 JP A No. 10 330643 JP A No. 11 80583 JP A No. 11 80584 JP A No. 9 124969 and JP A No. 9 95625.

The above mentioned titanium black is black particles having a titanium atom preferably lower titanium oxide titanium oxynitride or the like. Titanium black particles may be surface modified for the purpose of improving dispersibility suppressing aggregation properties or the like as necessary. Specifically titanium black may be coated with silicon oxide titanium oxide germanium oxide aluminium oxide magnesium oxide or zirconium oxide. In addition titanium black may be treated with a water repellent substance as described in JP A No. 2007 302836.

In addition titanium black may be used in combination with one or more kinds of black pigment such as a composite oxide of Cu Fe Mn V Ni or the like cobalt oxide iron oxide carbon black aniline black or the like for the purpose of controlling dispersibility colorability or the like. In this case 50 by mass or more of the pigment is titanium black particles.

In addition existing colorants such as a pigment or dye of red blue green yellow cyan magenta violet orange or the like may also be added for the purpose of controlling the light shielding effect at a desired wavelength.

Examples of commercially available products of titanium black include TITANIUM BLACK 10S 12S 13R 13M 13M C 13R and 13R N trade name manufactured by Mitsubishi Materials Corporation TILACK D trade name manufactured by AKO KASEI CO. LTD and the like.

Methods of producing titanium black include a method of heating and reducing a mixture of titanium dioxide and metal titanium under reductive atmosphere JP A No. 49 5432 a method of reducing fine particles of titanium dioxide obtained by subjecting tetrachloride titanium to high temperature hydrolysis under reductive atmosphere including hydrogen JP A No. 57 205322 a method of reducing titanium dioxide or titanium hydroxide at high temperature in the presence of ammonia JP A No. 60 65069 and JP A No. 61 201610 and a method attaching a vanadium compound to titanium dioxide or titanium hydroxide and reducing it at high temperature in the presence of ammonia JP A No. 61 201610 . However the method is not limited to the above.

The particle size of titanium black is not particularly limited but preferably 3 to 2000 nm and more preferably 10 to 500 nm from the viewpoint of dispersibility and colorability.

The specific surface area of titanium black is not particularly limited but the value measured by a BET method is usually about 5 to 150 m g and preferably about 20 to 100 m g in order that titanium black that has been treated with a water repellent exhibits a desired water repellency.

A dispersing agent having an acid value and or amine value may be used for dispersing carbon black or titanium black described above. Specific examples of the dispersing agent include SOLSPERSE 24000 or SOLSPERSE 33500 trade name manufactured by Avecia Limited DISPERBYK 161 trade name manufactured by BYK Chemie Japan and the like. Herein the dispersing agent having an acid value and or amine value refers to a dispersing agent having at least one of a group having an acid value and a group having an amine value.

Other examples of the dispersing agent include a polymer obtained by polymerizing a monomer such as meth acrylic acid acrylic acid and methacrylc acid meth acrylic acid ester or meth acrylic amide or a derivative thereof or styrene or a derivative thereof and a copolymer obtained by copolymerizing the above described monomers.

Examples of the above mentioned monomer include styrene based monomers such as styrene o methyl styrene m methyl styrene p methyl styrene methyl styrene p methoxy styrene p tert butyl styrene p phenyl styrene o chlorostyrene m chlorostyrenea and p chlorostyrene meth acrylic acid based monomers such as acrylic acid methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate propyl acrylate n butyl acrylate isobutyl acrylate dodecyl acrylate stearyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate hydroxyethyl acrylate hydroxypropyl acrylate methacrylic acid methyl methacrylate ethyl methacrylate propyl methacrylate n butyl methacrylate isobutyl methacrylate n octyl methacrylate dodecyl methacrylate benzyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate stearyl methacrylate hydroxyethyl mecrylate and hydroxypropyl mecrylate ethylene propylene butylene vinyl chloride vinyl acetate acrylic nitrile acrylic amide methacrylic amide and N vinyl pyrrolidone. The dispersing agent is preferably a meth acrylic acid ester based polymer.

Other materials that may be used for dispersing include resins such as polyurethane and polyimide and siloxane based polymers described in JP A No. 2002 241616 JP A No. 2002 234995 and the like.

The weight average molecular weight of the resin that may be used as a dispersing agent is not particularly limited as long as dispersibility can be obtained but preferably 500 to 200 000 more preferably 800 to 50 000 and still more preferably 1 000 to 30 000 from the viewpoint of dispersibility.

The dispersion medium used for dispersing a black colorant such as the aforementioned carbon black or titanium black may be various kinds of water soluble or water insoluble dispersion media as long as it can serve as a solvent for a dispersion. Examples of the dispersion medium includes water alcohols such as methyl alcohol ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol butyl alcohol and allyl alcohol glycols such as ethylene glycol propylene glycol propylene glycol monomethyl ether diethylene glycol polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol diethylene glycol monoethyl ether polypropylene glycol monoethyl ether polyethylene glycol monoallyl ether and polypropylene glycol monoallyl ether and derivatives thereof glycerols such as glycerol glycerol monoethyl ether and glycerol monoallyl ether and derivatives thereof ethers such as tetrahydrofuran and dioxane ketones such as methylethyl ketone and methylisobutyl ketone 

hydrocarbons such as liquid paraffin decane decene methylnaphthalene decaline kerosene diphenylmethane toluene dimethyl benzene ethyl benzene diethyl benzene propyl benzene cyclohexane and partially water added triphenyl silicone oils such as polydimethyl siloxane partially octyl substituted polydimethyl siloxane partially phenyl substituted polydimethyl siloxane and fluorosilicone oil halogenated hydrocarbons such as chlorobenzene dichlorobenzene bromobenzene chlorodiphenyl and chlorodiphenylmethane fluorides such as DAIFLOIL trade name manufactured by DAIKIN INDUSTRIES Ltd. and DEMNUM trade name manufactured by DAIKIN INDUSTRIES Ltd. ester compounds such as ethyl benzoate octyl benzoate dioctyl phthalate trioctyl trimellitate dibutyl sebacate ethyl meth acrylate butyl meth acrylate dodecyl meth acrylate ethyl acetate butyl acetate and propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate and amide solvents such as N N dimethylacrylic amide N N dimethylacetamide and N methylpyrrolidone. The dispersion medium may be suitably selected and used alone or in combination of two or more.

In the preparation of a dispersion containing a black colorant such as titanium black in the present exemplary embodiment the content of polymer component is preferably 5 to 200 parts by mass more preferably 10 to 100 parts by mass with respect to 100 parts by mass of the black colorant.

If the content of polymer component is 5 parts by mass or more the surface nature of black colorant may be more suitably maintained. If the content of polymer component is 200 parts by mass or less characteristics that are essential to a black colorant such as light shielding effect or colorability.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment may contain the above described black colorant alone or in combination of two or more kinds. The black colorant in the present exemplary embodiment preferably includes titanium black from the viewpoint of effectively suppressing the degradation in light shielding performances in the periphery of the color filter.

In addition to above described black colorant known colorants such as pigment or dye of red blue green yellow cyano magenta violet orange or the like may be also be added to the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment for the purpose of controlling light shielding effect at desired wavelength.

The contents of the colorant to be used in combination additional colorant is preferably in the range of 2 50 parts by mass more preferably 2 to 30 parts by mass and most preferably 2 to 10 parts by mass with respect to 100 parts by mass of the total amount of black colorant and additional colorant.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains a photopolymerizable compound.

The photopolymerizable compound may be for example a compound obtained by addition polymerization having at least one ethylene unsaturated double bond. Specifically the photopolymerizable compound may be selected from compounds having one or more ethylene unsaturated bond at a terminal preferably compounds having two or more ethylene unsaturated bonds at a terminal. Such compounds are well known in the field of the art and may be used in the present exemplary embodiment with no particular limitation. Chemical forms of these compounds include for example monomer prepolymer i.e. dimer or trimer and oligomer a mixture thereof and a copolymer thereof. Examples of the monomer and the copolymer thereof include unsaturated carboxylic acid for example acrylic acid methacrylic acid itaconic acid crotonic acid isocrotonic acid maleic acid and the like and esters or amides thereof.

Among these esters of unsaturated carboxylic acid and an aliphatic polyhydric alcohol compound and amides of unsaturated carboxylic acid and an aliphatic polyamine compound are preferable.

Other suitable examples include products obtained by addition reaction of unsaturated carboxylic acid ester or amide having a neucleophilic substituent such as a hydroxyl group amino group or a mercapto group with a mono functional or multi functional isocyanate or epoxy compound and products obtained by dehydrocondensation reaction with mono functional or multi functional carboxylic acid and the like. Also suitably used are products obtained by addition reaction of unsaturated carboxylic acid ester or amide having an electrophilic substituent such as an isocyanate group or epoxy group with a mono functional or multi functional alcohol amine or thiol and products obtained by substitution reaction of unsaturated carboxylic acid ester or amide having a leaving substituent such as a halogen group or tosyloxy group with a mono functional or multi functional alcohol amine or thiol. Yet further examples include the aforementioned compounds in which the unsaturated carboxylic acid is changed to unsaturated phosphonic acid styrene vinyl ether or the like.

Specific examples of the esters unsaturated carboxylic acid and an aliphatic polyhydric alcohol compound include acrylate esters such as ethylene glycol diacrylate triethylene glycol diacrylate 1 3 butanediol diacrylate tetramethylene glycol diacrylate propylene glycol diacrylate neopentyl glycol diacrylate trimethylol propane triacrylate trimethylol propane tri acryloyloxypropyl ether trimethylol ethane triacrylate hexanediol diacrylate 1 4 cyclohexanediol diacrylate tetraethylene glycol diacrylate pentaerythritol diacrylate pentaerythritol triacrylate pentaerythritol tetracrylate dipentaerythritol diacrylate dipentaerythritol hexacrylate sorbitol triacrylate sorbitol tetracrylate sorbitol pentacrylate sorbitol hexacrylate tri acryloyloxyethyl isocyanurate polyester acrylate oligomer and isocyanuric acid EO modified triacrylate 

methacrylic acid esters such as tetramethylene glycol dimethacrylate triethylene glycol dimethacrylate neopentyl glycol dimethacrylate trimethylol propane trimethacrylate trimethylol ethane trimethacrylate ethylene glycol dimethacrylate 1 3 butanediol dimethacrylate hexanediol dimethacrylate pentaerythritol dimethacrylate pentaerythritol trimethacrylate pentaerythritol tetramethacrylate dipentaerythritol dimethacrylate dipentaerythritol hexamethacrylate sorbitol trimethacrylate sorbitol tetramethacrylate bis p 3 methacryloxy 2 hydroxypropoxy phenyl dimethylmethane and bis p methacryloxyethoxy phenyl dimethylmethane 

itaconic acid esters such as ethylene glycol diitaconate propylene glycol diitaconate 1 3 butanediol diitaconate 1 4 butanediol diitaconate tetramethylene glycol diitaconate pentaerythritol diitaconate and sorbitol tetraitaconate 

crotonic acid esters such as ethylene glycol dicrotonate tetramethylene glycol dicrotonate pentaerythritol dicrotonate and sorbitol tetradicrotonate 

isocrotonic acid esters such as ethylene glycol diisocrotonate pentaerythritol diisocrotonate and sorbitol tetraisocrotonate and

maleic acid esters such as ethylene glycol dimaleate triethylene glycol dimaleate pentaerythritol dimaleate and sorbitol tetramaleate.

Other examples of the esters which may be suitably used include for example aliphatic alcohol based esters described in Japanese Patent Publication JP B No. 51 47334 and JP A No. 57 196231 esters having an aromatic skeleton described in JP A No. 59 5240 JP A No. 59 5241 and JP A No. 2 226149 esters containing an amino group described in JP A No. 1 165613 and the like. The above described ester monomers may be used alone or in combination of two or more kinds

Specific examples of the amides of unsaturated carboxylic acid and an aliphatic polyamine compound include methylene bis acrylic amide methylene bis methacrylic amide 1 6 hexamethylene bis acrylic amide 1 6 hexamethylene bis methacrylic amide diethylenetriamine tris acrylic amide xylylene bis acrylic amide xylylene bis methacrylic amide and the like.

Examples of other preferable amide based monomers include those having a cyclohexylene structure as described in JP B No. 54 21726.

In addition urethane based compounds obtained by addition polymerization of isocyanate and a hydroxy group are also preferable. Specific examples thereof include for example a vinylurethane compound containing two or more polymerizable vinyl groups in one molecule that is obtained by adding a vinyl monomer containing a hydroxy group represented by the following Formula A to a polyisocyanate compound having two or more isocyanate groups in one molecule as described in JP B No. 48 41708 and the like. CH C R COOCHCH R OH A 

Also preferable are urethane acrylates as described in JP A No. 51 37193 JP B No. 2 32293 and JP B No. 2 16765 and urethane compounds having an ethyleneoxide based skeleton as described in JP B No. 58 49860 JP B No. 56 17654 JP B No. 62 39417 and JP B No. 62 39418. Further by using a compound obtained by addition polymerization having an amino structure or sulfide structure in the molecule as described in JP A No. 63 277653 JP A No. 63 260909 or JP A No. 1 105238 a photosensitive resin composition having excellent photosensitivity speed may be obtained.

Yet further examples include multi functional acrylates and methacrylates such as polyesteracrylates as described in JP A No. 48 64183 JP B No. 49 43191 and JP B No. 52 30490 and epoxyacrylates obtained by reaction of epoxy resin and meth acrylate. In addition other examples include specific unsaturated compounds as described in JP B No. 46 43946 JP B No. 1 40337 and JP B No. 1 40336 vinylphosphonic acid based compounds as described in JP A No. 2 25493 and the like. In addition a structure containing a perfluoroalkyl group as described in JP A No. 61 22048 is suitably used in some cases. Furthermore light curing monomers and oligomers as described in Journal of the Adhesion Society of Japan vol. 20 No. 7 pp. 300 308 1984 may also be used.

Details of usage of the aforementioned photopolymerizable compound such as the structure of the compound number of the compound to be used in combination or the addition amount may be set arbitrarily according to the design for the eventual performances of the photosensitive resin composition. For example the photopolymerizable compound may be selected in view of the following.

In terms of increasing sensitivity the compound preferably contain more unsaturated groups per one molecule. In many cases the compound is preferably difunctional or more. In terms of increasing the strength of a cured film the compound is preferably trifunctional or more. Further it is also effective to control both of the sensitivity and strength by using two or more kinds of photopolymerizable compounds having a different number of functional group or a different kind of polymerizable group such as an acrylate methacrylate styrene based compound and vinyl ether based compound in combination.

The selection and usage of the photopolymerizable compound is a significant factor also in terms of compatibility with other components contained in the photosensitive resin composition such as a photopolymerization initiator colorant pigment or dye or binder polymer or dispersibility in the composition. For example the compatibility may be improved by using a low purity compound or by using two or more kinds of compounds in combination. It is also possible to select the structure of the compound in order to improve the adhesion of the composition to a hard surface of a support or the like.

The content of the photopolymerizable compound when two or more kinds are used the total content thereof in the total solid content of the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment is not particularly limited but preferably 5 to 80 by mass more preferably 10 to 80 by mass further preferably 10 to 75 by mass yet more preferably 15 to 75 by mass even more preferably 15 to 60 by mass and particularly preferably 20 to 60 by mass from the viewpoint of effectively obtaining the effects of the present exemplary embodiment.

The resin is preferably a linear organic polymer and any known ones may be arbitrarily used. The linear organic polymer is preferably soluble or swellable to water or weak alkali water in order to enable development using water or weak alkali water. The linear organic polymer may be selected and used depending on usage not only as a film forming agent but also as a developing agent for water weak alkali water or organic solvent. For example by selecting a water soluble organic polymer aqueous development can be performed. Examples of the water soluble linear organic polymer include radical polymers having a carboxylic acid group on a side chain such as those described in JP A No. 59 44615 JP B No. 54 34327 JP B No. 58 12577 JP B No. 54 25957 JP A No. 54 92723 JP A No. 59 53836 and JP A No. 59 71048 for example resins obtained by polymerization or copolymerization of a monomer having a carboxyl group resins obtained by hydrolysis or half esterization or half amidation of acid anhydride unit that has been btained by polymerization or copolymerization of a monomer having an acid anhydride epoxyacrylate obtained by modifying an epoxy resin with unsaturated monocarboxylic acid and acid anhydride and the like. Monomers having a carboxyl group include acrylic acid methacrylic acid itaconic acid crotonic acid maleic acid fumaric acid 4 carboxylstyrene and the like. Monomers having an acid anhydride include maleic anhydride and the like.

Other examples of the resin include acidic cellulose derivatives having a carboxylic acid group in a side chain and resins obtained by adding a cyclic acid anhydride to a polymer having a hydroxy group are also applicable.

A copolymer may be used as the resin in the present exemplary embodiment for example alkali soluble resin . Other than the aforementioned monomers monomers described in the following 1 to 12 may also used for the copolymer.

 1 Acrylates and methacrylates having an aliphatic hydroxy group such as 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate 2 hydroxypropyl acrylate 3 hydroxypropyl acrylate 4 hydroxybutyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate 2 hydroxypropyl methacrylate 3 hydroxypropyl methacrylate and 4 hydroxybutyl methacrylate.

 2 Alkyl acrylates such as methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate propyl acrylate butyl acrylate isobutyl acrylate amyl acrylate hexyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate octyl acrylate benzyl acrylate 2 chloroethyl acrylate glycidyl acrylate 3 4 epoxycyclohexylmethyl acrylate vinyl acrylate 2 phenylvinyl acrylate 1 propenyl acrylate allyl acrylate 2 aryloxyethyl acrylate and propargyl acrylate.

 3 Alkyl methacrylates such as methyl methacrylate ethyl methacrylate propyl methacrylate butyl methacrylate isobutyl methacrylate amyl methacrylate hexyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate cyclohexyl methacrylate benzyl methacrylate 2 chloroethyl methacrylate glycidyl methacrylate 3 4 epoxycyclohexylmethyl methacrylate vinyl methacrylate 2 phenylvinyl methacrylate 1 propenyl methacrylate allyl methacrylate 2 aryloxyethyl methacrylate and propargyl methacrylate.

 4 Acrylic amides or methacrylic amides such as acrylic amide methacrylic amide N methylol acrylic amide N ethylacrylic amide N hexyl methacrylic amide N cyclohexylacrylic amide N hydroxyethylacrylic amide N phenylacrylic amide N nitrophenylacrylic amide N ethyl N phenylacrylic amide vinylacrylic amide vinyl methacrylic amide N N diallyl acrylic amide N N diallyl methacrylic amide allyl acrylic amide and allyl methacrylic amide.

 5 Vinyl ethers such as ethylvinyl ether 2 chloroethylvinyl ether hydroxyethylvinyl ether propylvinyl ether butylvinyl ether octylvinyl ether and phenylvinyl ether.

 7 Styrenes such as styrene methyl styrene methyl styrene chloromethyl styrene and p acetoxy styrene.

 8 Vinyl ketones such as methylvinyl ketone ethylvinyl ketone propylvinyl ketone and phenylvinyl ketone.

 11 Unsaturated imides such as maleimide N acryloylacrylic amide N acetylmethacrylic amide N propionylmethacrylic amide and N p chlorobenzoyl methacrylic amide.

 12 Methacrylic acid based monomers having a heteroatom bonded at position for example compounds described in JP A No. 2002 309057 and JP A No. 2002 311569 and the like.

Among the above meth acrylic resins having an allyl group or vinyl ester group and a carboxyl group in a side chain alkali soluble resins having a double bond in a side chain described in JP A No. 2000 187322 and JP A No. 2002 62698 and alkali soluble resins having an amide group in a side chain described in JP A No. 2001 242612 exhibit a favorable balance among film strength sensitivity and developing properties.

Urethane based binder polymers containing an acidic group described in JP B No. 7 12004 JP B No. 7 120041 JP B No. 7 120042 JP B No. 8 12424 JP A No. 63 287944 JP A No. 63 287947 JP A No. 1 271741 JP A No. 11 352691 and urethane based binder polymers having an acidic group and a double bond in a side chain described in JP A No. 2002 107918 exhibit excellent strength and are thus effective in terms of printing durability and adaptability to low level exposure.

Acetal modified polyvinyl alcohol based binder polymers having an acidic group as described in European Patent No. 993966 European Patent No. 1204000 JP A No. 2001 318463 or the like exhibit an excellent balance between film strength and developing properties.

Further polyvinylpyrrolidone polyethyleneoxide and the like are also useful water soluble linear organic polymers. Alcohol soluble nylon a polyether of 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane and epichlorohydrin and the like are also useful in terms of increasing cured film strength.

Among the resins as described above resins having a polymerizable group are preferable for use in the present exemplary embodiment. The polymerizable group is preferably a group containing a double bond more preferably an acryloyl group or methacryloyl group.

The weight average molecular weight of the resin contained in the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment is preferably 5 000 or more more preferably from 10 000 to 300 000. The number average molecular weight is preferably 1 000 or more more preferably from 2 000 to 250 000. The polydispersity index weight average molecular weight number average molecular weight is preferably 1 or more more preferably from 1.1 to 10.

The resin in the present exemplary embodiment may be synthesized by a known method. Examples of the solvent used in the synthesis include tetrahydrofuran ethylenedichloride cyclohexanone methylethyl ketone acetone methanol ethanol ethylene glycol monomethyl ether ethylene glycol monoethyl ether 2 methoxyethyl acetate diethylene glycol dimethyl ether 1 methoxy 2 propanol 1 methoxy 2 propyl acetate N N dimethylform amide N N dimethylacetamide toluene ethyl acetate methyl lactate ethyl lactate dimethyl sulfoxide water and the like. The solvent may be used alone or in combination of two or more kinds.

Examples of the radical polymerization initiator used in the synthesis of the resin in the present exemplary embodiment include known compounds such as azo based initiators peroxide initiators and the like.

The content of the resin when two or more kinds are used the total content thereof in the total solid content of the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment is not particularly limited but preferably 5 to 50 by mass more preferably 10 to 40 by mass and particularly preferably 10 to 35 by mass from the viewpoint of effectively obtaining the effects of the present exemplary embodiment.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains a photopolymerization initiator.

The photopolymerization initiator is not particularly limited as long as it can cause polymerization of the aforementioned photopolymerizable compound but preferably selected from the viewpoint of properties initiation effectiveness absorption wavelength availability cost and the like.

Examples of the photopolymerization initiator include active halogen compounds such as a halomethyloxadiazole compound and a halomethyl s triazine compound a 3 aryl substituted coumarin compound a rofin dimer a benzophenone compound an acetophenone compound and a derivative thereof a cyclopentadiene benzene iron complex and a salt thereof and an oxime compound.

Examples of the halomethyloxadiazole compound include 2 halomethyl 5 vinyl 1 3 4 oxadiazole compounds as described in JP B No. 57 6096 2 trichloromethyl 5 styryl 1 3 4 oxadiazole 2 trichloromethyl 5 p cyanostyryl 1 3 4 oxadiazole and 2 trichloromethyl 5 p methoxystyryl 1 3 4 oxadiazole.

Examples of the halomethyl s triazine based compound include vinyl halomethyl s triazine compound as described in JP B No. 59 1281 2 naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis halomethyl s triazine compounds and 4 p aminophenyl 2 6 di halomethyl s triazine compounds as described in JP A No. 53 133428.

Specific examples of the halomethyl s triazine based compound include 2 4 bis trichloromethyl 6 p methoxystyryl s triazine 2 6 bis trichloromethyl 4 3 4 methylene dioxyphenyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 6 bis trichloromethyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 bis trichloromethyl 6 1 p dimethylaminophenyl 1 3 butadienyl s triazine 2 trichloromethyl 4 amino 6 p methoxystyryl s triazine 2 naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 4 methoxy naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 4 ethoxy naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 4 butoxy naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 4 2 methoxyethyl naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 4 2 ethoxyethyl naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 4 2 butoxyethyl naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 2 methoxy naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 6 methoxy 5 methyl naphth 2 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 6 methoxy naphth 2 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 5 methoxy naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 4 7 dimethoxy naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 6 ethoxy naphth 2 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 2 4 5 dimethoxy naphth 1 yl 4 6 bis trichloromethyl s triazine 4 p N N di ethoxycarbonylmethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o methyl p N N di ethoxycarbonylmethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 p N N di chloroethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o methyl p N N di chloroethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 p N chloroethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 p N ethoxycarbonylmethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 p N N di phenyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 p N chloroethylcarbonylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 p N p methoxyphenyl carbonylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m N N di ethoxycarbonylmethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m bromo p N N di ethoxycarbonylmethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m chloro p N N di ethoxycarbonylmethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m fluoro p N N di ethoxycarbonylmethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o bromo p N N di ethoxycarbonylmethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o chloro p N N di ethoxycarbonylmethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o fluoro p N N di ethoxycarbonylmethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o bromo p N N di chloroethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o chloro p N N di chloroethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o fluoro p N N di chloroethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m bromo p N N di chloroethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m chloro p N N di chloroethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m phloro p N N di chloroethyl aminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m bromo p N ethoxycarbonylmethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m chloro p N ethoxycarbonylmethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m fluoro p N ethoxycarbonylmethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o bromo p N ethoxycarbonylmethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o chloro p N ethoxycarbonylmethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o phloro p N ethoxycarbonylmethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m bromo p N chloroethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m chloro p N chloroethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 m fluoro p N chloroethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o bromo p N chloroethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o chloro p N chloroethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine 4 o fluoro p N chloroethylaminophenyl 2 6 di trichloromethyl s triazine and the like.

Other useful photopolymerization initiator include TAZ series manufactured by Midori Kagaku Co. Ltd. for example TAZ 107 TAZ 110 TAZ 104 TAZ 109 TAZ 140 TAZ 204 TAZ 113 TAZ 123 T series manufactured by PANCHIM Ltd. for example T OMS T BMP T R T B IRGACURE series for example IRGACURE 651 IRGACURE 184 IRGACURE 500 IRGACURE 1000 IRGACURE 149 IRGACURE 819 IRGACURE 261 and DAROCURE series for example DAROCURE1173 manufactured by Ciba Japan K.K. 4 4 bis diethylamino benzophenone 2 O benzoyloxime 1 4 phenylthio phenyl 1 2 octanedione 1 O acetyloxime 1 9 ethyl 6 2 methylbenzoyl 9H carbozol 3 yl ethanone 2 benzyl 2 dimethylamino 4 morpholinobutyrophenone 2 2 dimethoxy 2 phenylacetophenone 2 o chlorphenyl 4 5 diphenylimidazolyl dimer 2 o fluorophenyl 4 5 diphenylimidazolyl dimer 2 o methoxyphenyl 4 5 diphenylimidazolyl dimer 2 p methoxyphenyl 4 5 diphenylimidazoliyl dimer 2 p dimethoxyphenyl 4 5 diphenylimidazolyl dimer 2 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl 4 5 diphenylimidazolyl dimer 2 p methylmercaptophenyl 4 5 diphenylimidazolyl dimer benzoin isopropyl ether and the like.

Among these photopolymerization initiators oxime based photopolymerization initiators are preferable. Among the oxime based photopolymerization initiators preferable are 2 O benzoyloxime 1 4 phenylthio phenyl 1 2 octanedione and 1 O acetyloxime 1 9 ethyl 6 2 methylbenzoyl 9H carbozol 3 yl ethanone.

In addition as the oxime based photopolymerization initiator a compound hereinafter referred to as novel oxime compound represented by Formula 1 below is also preferable.

The novel oxime compound in the present exemplary embodiment is a compound represented by Formula 1 below.

In aforementioned Formula 1 R and B each independently represent a monovalent substituent A represents a bivalent organic group and Ar represents an aryl group.

The monovalent substituent represented by R is preferably a monovalent non metal atom group as shown below.

Examples of the monovalent non metal atom group represented by R include an optionally substituted alkyl group an optionally substituted aryl group an optionally substituted alkenyl group an optionally substituted alkynyl group an optionally substituted alkylsulfinyl group an optionally substituted arylsulfinyl group an optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl group an optionally substituted arylsulfonyl group an optionally substituted acyl group an optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl group an optionally substituted aryloxycarbonyl group an optionally substituted phosphinoyl group an optionally substituted heterocyclic group an optionally substituted alkylthiocarbonyl group an optionally substituted arylthiocarbonyl group an optionally substituted dialkylaminocarbonyl group an optionally substituted dialkylaminothiocarbonyl group and the like.

The optionally substituted alkyl group is preferably an alkyl group having a carbon number of 1 to 30 such as a methyl group an ethyl group a propyl group a butyl group a hexyl group an octyl group a decyl group a dodecyl group an ocdadecyl group an isopropyl group an isobutyl group a sec butyl group a t butyl group a 1 ethylpentyl group a cyclopentyl group a cyclohexyl group a trifluoromethyl group a 2 ethylhexyl group a phenacyl group a 1 naphthoylmethyl group a 2 naphthoylmethyl group a 4 methylsulfanylphenacyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenacyl group a 4 dimethylaminophenacyl group a 4 cyanophenacyl group a 4 methylphenacyl group a 2 methylphenacyl group a 3 fluorophenacyl group a 3 trifluoromethylphenacyl group a 3 nitrophenacyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted aryl group is preferably an aryl group having a carbon number of 6 to 30 such as a phenyl group a biphenyl group a 1 naphthyl group a 2 naphthyl group a 9 anthryl group a 9 phenanthryl group a 1 pyrenyl group a 5 naphthacenyl group a 1 indenyl group a 2 azulenyl group a 9 fluorenyl group a terphenyl group a quaterphenyl group an o tolyl group an m tolyl group a p tolyl group a xylyl group an o dumenyl group an m cumenyl group a p cumenyl group a mesityl group a pentalenyl group a binaphthalenyl group a ternaphthalenyl group a quaternaphthalenyl group a heptalenyl group a biphenylenyl group an indacenyl group a fluorantenyl group an acenaphthylenyl group an aceanthrylenyl group a phenalenyl group a fluorenyl group an anthryl group a bianthracenyl group a teranthracenyl group a quateranthracenyl group an anthraquinolyl group a phenanthryl group a triphenylenyl group a pyrenyl group a chrysenyl group a naphthacenyl group a pleiadenyl group a picenyl group a perylenyl group a pentaphenyl group a pentacenyl group a tetraphenylenyl group a hexaphenyl group a hexacenyl group a rubicenyl group a coronenyl group a trinaphthylenyl group a heptaphenyl group a heptacenyl group a pyranthrenyl group an ovalenyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkenyl group is preferably an alkenyl group having a carbon number of 2 to 10 such as a vinyl group an allyl group a styryl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkynyl group is preferably an alkynyl group having a carbon number of 2 to 10 such as an ethynyl group a propynyl group a propargyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkylsulfinyl group is preferably an alkylsulfinyl group having a carbon number of 1 to 20 such as a methylsulfinyl group an ethylsulfinyl group a propylsulfinyl group an isopropylsulfinyl group a butylsulfinyl group a hexylsulfinyl group a cyclohexylsulfinyl group an octylsulfinyl group a 2 ethylhexylsulfinyl group a decanoylsulfinyl group a dodecanoylsulfinyl group an octadecanoylsulfinyl group a cyanomethylsulfinyl group a methoxymethylsulfinyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted arylsulfinyl group is preferably an arylsulfinyl group having a carbon number of 6 to 30 such as a phenylsulfinyl group a 1 naphthylsulfinyl group a 2 naphthylsulfinyl group a 2 chlorophenylsulfinyl group a 2 methylphenylsulfinyl group a 2 methoxyphenylsulfinyl group a 2 butoxyphenylsulfinyl group a 3 chlorophenylsulfinyl group a 3 trifluoromethylphenylsulfinyl group a 3 cyanophenylsulfinyl group a 3 nitrophenylsulfinyl group a 4 fluorophenylsulfinyl group a 4 cyanophenylsulfinyl group a 4 methoxyphenylsulfinyl group a 4 methylsulfanylphenylsulfinyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenylsulfinyl group a 4 dimethylaminophenylsulfinyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl group is preferably an alkylsulfonyl group havign a carbon number of 1 to 20 such as a methylsulfonyl group an ethylsulfonyl group a propylsulfonyl group an isopropylsulfonyl group a butylsulfonyl group a hexylsulfonyl group a cyclohexylsulfonyl group an octylsulfonyl group a 2 ethylhexylsulfonyl group a decanoylsulfonyl group a dodecanoylsulfonyl group an octadecanoylsulfonyl group a cyanomethylsulfonyl group a methoxymethylsulfonyl group a perfluoroalkylsulfonyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted arylsulfonyl group is preferably an arylsulfonyl group having a carbon number of 6 to 30 such as a phenylsulfonyl group a 1 naphthylsulfonyl group a 2 naphthylsulfonyl group a 2 chlorophenylsulfonyl group a 2 methylphenylsulfonyl group a 2 methoxyphenylsulfonyl group a 2 butoxyphenylsulfonyl group a 3 chlorophenylsulfonyl group a 3 trifluoromethylphenylsulfonyl group a 3 cyanophenylsulfonyl group a 3 nitrophenylsulfonyl group a 4 fluorophenylsulfonyl group a 4 cyanophenylsulfonyl group a 4 methoxyphenylsulfonyl group a 4 methylsulfanylphenylsulfonyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenylsulfonyl group a 4 dimethylaminophenylsulfonyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted acyl group is preferably an acyl group having a carbon number of 2 to 20 such as an acetyl group a propanoyl group a butanoyl group a trifluoromethylcarbonyl group a pentanoyl group a benzoyl group a 1 naphthoyl group a 2 naphthoyl group a 4 methylsulfanylbenzoyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylbenzoyl group a 4 dimethylaminobenzoyl group a 4 diethylaminobenzoyl group a 2 chlorobenzoyl group a 2 methylbenzoyl group a 2 methoxybenzoyl group a 2 butoxybenzoyl group a 3 chlorobenzoyl group a 3 trifluoromethylbenzoyl group a 3 cyanobenzoyl group a 3 nitrobenzoyl group a 4 fluorobenzoyl group a 4 cyanobenzoyl group a 4 methoxybenzoyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl group is preferably an alkoxycarbonyl group having a carbon number of 2 to 20 such as a methoxycarbonyl group an ethoxycarbonyl group a propoxycarbonyl group a butoxycarbonyl group a hexyloxycarbonyl group an octyloxycarbonyl group a decyloxycarbonyl group an octadecyloxycarbonyl group a trifluoromethyloxycarbonyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted aryloxycarbonyl group may be for example a phenoxycarbonyl group a 1 naphthyloxycarbonyl group a 2 naphthyloxycarbonyl group a 4 methylsulfanylphenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 dimethylaminophenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 diethylaminophenyloxycarbonyl group a 2 chlorophenyloxycarbonyl group a 2 methylphenyloxycarbonyl group a 2 methoxyphenyloxycarbonyl group a 2 butoxyphenyloxycarbonyl group a 3 chlorophenyloxycarbonyl group a 3 trifluoromethylphenyloxycarbonyl group a 3 cyanophenyloxycarbonyl group a 3 nitrophenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 fluorophenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 cyanophenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 methoxyphenyloxycarbonyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted phosphinoyl group is preferably a phosphinoyl group having a carbon number of 2 to 50 such as a dimethylphosphinoyl group a diethylphosphinoyl group a dipropylphosphinoyl group a diphenylphosphinoyl group a dimethoxyphosphinoyl group a diethoxyphosphinoyl group a dibenzoylphosphinoyl group a bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl phosphinoyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted heterocyclic group is preferably an aromatic or aliphatic heterocyclic group including a nitrogen atom an oxygen atom a sulfur atom or a phosphorus atom such as a thienyl group a benzo b thienyl group a naphtho 2 3 b thienyl group a thianthrenyl group a furyl group a pyranyl group an isobenzofuranyl group a chromenyl group a xanthenyl group a phenoxathiinyl group a 2H pyrrolyl group a pyrrolyl group an imidazolyl group a pyrazolyl group a pyridyl group a pyrazinyl group a pyrimidinyl group a pyridazinyl group an indolizinyl group an isoindolyl group a 3H indolyl group an indolyl group a 1H indazolyl group a purinyl group a 4H quinolizinyl group an isoquinolyl group a quinolyl group a phthalazinyl group a naphthyridinyl group a quinoxalnilyl group a quinazolinyl group a cinnolinyl group a pteridinyl group a 4aH carbazolyl group a carbazolyl group a carbolinyl group a phenanthridinyl group an acridinyl group a perimidinyl group a phenanthrolinyl group a phenazinyl group a phenarsazinyl group an isothiazolyl group a phenothiazinyl group an isoxazolyl group a furazanyl group a phenoxazinyl group an isochromanyl group a chromanyl group a pyrrolidinyl group a pyrrolinyl group an imidazolidinyl group an imidazolinyl group a pyrazolidinyl group a pyrazolinyl group a piperidyl group a piperazinyl group an indolinyl group an isoindolinyl group a quinuclidinyl group a morpholinyl group a thioxantolyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkylthiocarbonyl group may be for example a methylthiocarbonyl group a propylthiocarbonyl group a butylthiocarbonyl group a hexylthiocarbonyl group an octylthiocarbonyl group a decylthiocarbonyl group an octadecylthiocarbonyl group a trifluoromethylthiocarbonyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted arylthiocarbonyl group may be a 1 naphthylthiocarbonyl group a 2 naphthylthiocarbonyl group a 4 methylsulfanylphenylthiocarbonyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenylthiocarbonyl group a 4 dimethylaminophenylthiocarbonyl group a 4 diethylaminophenylthiocarbonyl group a 2 chlorophenylthiocarbonyl group a 2 methylphenylthiocarbonyl group a 2 methoxyphenylthiocarbonyl group a 2 butoxyphenylthiocarbonyl group a 3 chlorophenylthiocarbonyl group a 3 trifluoromethylphenylthiocarbonyl group a 3 cyanophenylthiocarbonyl group a 3 nitrophenylthiocarbonyl group a 4 fluorophenylthiocarbonyl group a 4 cyanophenylthiocarbonyl group a 4 methoxyphenylthiocarbonyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted dialkylaminocarbonyl group may be a dimethylaminocarbonyl group a diethylaminocarbonyl group a dipropylaminocarbonyl group a dibutylaminocarbonyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted dialkylaminothiocarbonyl group may be a dimethylaminothiocarbonyl group a dipropylaminothiocarbonyl group a dibutylaminothiocarbonyl group or the like.

Among the above R is more preferably an acyl group specifically an acetyl group an ethyloyl group a propioyl group a benzoyl group or a tolyl group from the point of enhancing sensitivity.

The monovalent substituent represented by B may be an optionally substituted aryl group an optionally substituted heterocyclic group an optionally substituted arylcarbonyl group or an optionally substituted heterocyclic carbonyl group. Among these the monovalent substituent represented by B is particularly preferably the structures as shown below.

In the structures below Y X and n are defined in the same manner as Y X and n in Formula 2 described later respectively and preferable examples thereof are also the same as those of Formula 2 .

The bivalent organic group represented by A may be an optionally substituted alkylene group having a carbon number of 1 to 12 an optionally substituted cyclohexylene group an optionally substituted alkynylene group or the like.

Examples of a substituent that may be introduced into such groups include a halogen group such as a fluorine atom a chlorine atom a bromine atom and an iodine atom an alkoxy group such as a methoxy group an ethoxy group and a tert butoxy group an aryloxy group such as a phenoxy group and a p tolyloxy group an alkoxycarbonyl group such as a methoxycarbonyl group a butoxycarbonyl group and a phenoxycarbonyl group an acyloxy group such as an acetoxy group a propionyloxy group and a benzoyloxy group an acyl group such as an acetyl group a benzoyl group an isobutyryl group an acryloyl group a methacryloyl group and a methoxalyl group an alkylsulfanyl group such as a methylsulfanyl group and a tert butylsulfanyl group an arylsulfanyl group such as a phenylsulfanyl group and a p tolylsulfanyl group an alkylamino group such as a methylamino group and a cyclohexylamino group a dialkylamino group such as a dimethylamino group a diethylamino group a morpholino group and a piperidino group an arylamino group such as a phenylamino group and a p tolylamino group an alkyl group such as a methyl group an ethyl group a tert butyl group and a dodecyl group an aryl group such as a phenyl group a p tolyl group a xylyl group a cumenyl group a naphthyl group an anthryl group and a phenanthryl group and in addition a hydroxy group a carboxy group a formyl group a mercapto group a sulfo group a mesyl group a p toluenesulfonyl group an amino group a nitro group a cyano group a trifluoromethyl group a trichloromethyl group a trimethylsilyl group a phosphinico group a phosphono group a trimethyl ammoniumyl group a dimethylsulfoniumyl group a triphenylphenacylphosphoniumyl group and the like.

Among them A is preferably a non substituted alkylene group an alkylene group substituted by an alkyl group such as a methyl group an ethyl group a tert butyl group or a dodecyl group an alkylene group substituted by an alkenyl group such as a vinyl group or an allyl group an alkylene group substituted by an aryl group such as a phenyl group a p tolyl group a xylyl group a cumenyl group a naphthyl group an anthryl group a phenanthryl group or a styryl group from the viewpoint of enhancing sensitivity and suppressing coloration caused by heating or aging.

The aryl group represented by Ar is preferably an aryl group having a carbon number of 6 to 30 which may have a substituent.

Specific examples of the aryl group include a phenyl group a biphenyl group a 1 naphthyl group a 2 naphthyl group a 9 anthryl group a 9 phenanthryl group a 1 pyrenyl group a 5 naphthacenyl group a 1 indenyl group a 2 azulenyl group a 9 fluorenyl group a terphenyl group a quaterphenyl group an o tolyl group an m tolyl a p tolyl group a xylyl group an o cumenyl group an m cumenyl group a p cumenyl group a mesityl group a pentalenyl group a binaphthalenyl group a ternaphthalenyl group a quaternaphthalenyl group a heptalenyl group a biphenylenyl group an indacenyl group a fluorantenyl group an acenaphthylenyl group an aceanthrylenyl group a phenalenyl group a fluorenyl group an anthryl group a bianthracenyl group a teranthracenyl group a quateranthracenyl group an anthraquinolyl group a phenanthryl group a triphenylenyl group a pyrenyl group a chrysenyl group a naphthacenyl group a pleiadenyl group a picenyl group a perylenyl group a pentaphenyl group a pentacenyl group a tetraphenylenyl group a hexaphenyl group a hexacenyl group a rubicenyl group a coronenyl group a trinaphthylenyl group a heptaphenyl group a heptacenyl group a pyranthrenyl group and an ovalenyl group. Among these the aryl group is preferably a substituted or non substituted phenyl group from the viewpoint of enhancing sensitivity and suppressing coloration caused by heating or aging.

When the aforementioned phenyl group has a substituent examples of the substituent include a halogen group such as a fluorine atom a chlorine atom a bromine atom and an iodine atom an alkoxy group such as a methoxy group an ethoxy group and a tert butoxy group an aryloxy group such as a phenoxy group and a p tolyloxy group an alkylthioxy group such as a methylthioxy group an ethylthioxy group and a tert butylthioxy group an arylthiooxy group such as a phenylthioxy group and a p tolylthioxy group an alkoxycarbonyl group such as a methoxycarbonyl group a butoxycarbonyl group and a phenoxycarbonyl group an acyloxy group such as an acetoxy group a propionyloxy group and a benzoyloxy group an acyl group such as an acetyl group a benzoyl group an isobutyryl group an acryloyl group a methacryloyl group and a methoxalyl group an alkylsulfanyl group such as a methylsulfanyl group and a tert butylsulfanyl group an arylsulfanyl group such as a phenylsulfanyl group and a p tolylsulfanyl group an alkylamino group such as a methylamino group and a cyclohexylamino group a dialkylamino group such as a dimethylamino group a diethylamino group a morpholino group and a piperidino group an arylamino group such as a phenylamino group and a p tolylamino group an alkyl group such as an ethyl group a tert butyl group and a dodecyl group a hydroxyl group a carboxyl group a formyl group a mercapto group a sulfo group a mesyl group a p toluenesulfonyl group an amino group a nitro group a cyano group a trifluoromethyl group a trichloromethyl group a trimethylsilyl group a phosphinico group a phosphono group a trimethyl ammoniumyl group a dimethylsulfoniumyl group and a triphenylphenacylphosphoniumyl group.

The structure SAr formed by Ar and S in Formula 1 is preferably the structures as shown below from the view point of sensitivity.

The novel oxime compound in the present exemplary embodiment is preferably a compound represented by Formula 2 below.

In Formula 2 R and X each independently represent a monovalent substituent A and Y each independently represent a bivalent organic group Ar represents an aryl group and N is an integer of 0 to 5.

R A and Ar in Formula 2 are defined in the same manner as R A and Ar respectively in Formula 1 and preferable examples thereof are also the same as those of Formula 1 .

Examples of the monovalent substituent represented by X include an optionally substituted alkyl group an optionally substituted aryl group an optionally substituted alkenyl group an optionally substituted alkynyl group an optionally substituted alkoxy group an optionally substituted aryloxy group an optionally substituted alkylthioxy group an optionally substituted arylthioxy group an optionally substituted acyloxy group an optionally substituted alkylsulfanyl group an optionally substituted arylsulfanyl group an optionally substituted alkylsulfinyl group an optionally substituted arylsulfinyl group an optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl group an optionally substituted arylsulfonyl group an optionally substituted acyl group an optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl group an optionally substituted carbamoyl group an optionally substituted sulfamoyl group an optionally substituted amino group an optionally substituted phosphinoyl group an optionally substituted heterocyclic group and a halogen group.

The optionally substituted alkyl group is preferably an alkyl group having a carbon number of 1 to 30 such as a methyl group an ethyl group a propyl group a butyl group a hexyl group an octyl group a decyl group a dodecyl group an ocdadecyl group an isopropyl group an isobutyl group a sec butyl group a tert butyl group a 1 ethylpentyl group a cyclopentyl group a cyclohexyl group a trifluoromethyl group a 2 ethylhexyl group a phenacyl group a 1 naphthoylmethyl group a 2 naphthoylmethyl group a 4 methylsulfanylphenacyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenacyl group a 4 dimethylaminophenacyl group a 4 cyanophenacyl group 4 methylphenacyl group a 2 methylphenacyl group a 3 fluorophenacyl group a 3 trifluoromethylphenacyl group a 3 nitrophenacyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted aryl group is preferably an aryl group having a carbon number of 6 to 30 such as a phenyl group a biphenyl group a 1 naphthyl group a 2 naphthyl group a 9 anthryl group a 9 phenanthryl group a 1 pyrenyl group a 5 naphthacenyl group a 1 indenyl group a 2 azulenyl group a 9 fluorenyl group a terphenyl group a quaterphenyl group an o tolyl group an m tolyl group a p tolyl group a xylyl group an o cumenyl group an m cumenyl group a p cumenyl group a mesityl group a pentalenyl group a binaphthalenyl group a ternaphthalenyl group a quaternaphthalenyl group a heptalenyl group a biphenylenyl group an indacenyl group a fluorantenyl group an acenaphthylenyl group an aceanthrylenyl group a phenalenyl group a fluorenyl group an anthryl group a bianthracenyl group a teranthracenyl group a quateranthracenyl group an anthraquinolyl group a phenanthryl group a triphenylenyl group a pyrenyl group a chrysenyl group a naphthacenyl group a pleiadenyl group a picenyl group a perylenyl group a pentaphenyl group a pentacenyl group a tetraphenylenyl group a hexaphenyl group a hexacenyl group a rubicenyl group a coronenyl group a trinaphthylenyl group a heptaphenyl group a heptacenyl group a pyranthrenyl group an ovalenyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkenyl group is preferably an alkenyl group having a carbon number of 2 to 10 such as a vinyl group an allyl group a styryl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkynyl group is preferably an alkynyl group having a carbon number of 2 to 10 such as an ethynyl group a propynyl group a propargyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkoxy group is preferably an alkoxy group having a carbon number of 1 to 30 such as a methoxy group an ethoxy group a propyloxy group an isopropyloxy group a butoxy group an isobutoxy group a sec butoxy group a tert butoxy group a pentyloxy group an isopentyloxy group a hexyloxy group a heptyloxy group an octyloxy group a 2 ethylhexyloxy group a decyloxy group a dodecyloxy group an octadecyloxy group an ethoxycarbonylmethyl group a 2 ethylhexyloxycarbonylmethyloxy group an aminocarbonylmethyloxy group an N N dibutylaminocarbonylmethyloxy group an N methylaminocarbonylmethyloxy group an N ethylaminocarbonylmethyloxy group an N octylaminocarbonylmethyloxy group an N methyl N benzyl aminocarbonylmethyloxy group a benzyloxy group a cyanomethyloxy group or the like.

The optionally substituted aryloxy group is preferably an aryloxy group having a carbon number of 6 to 30 such as a phenyloxy group a 1 naphthyloxy group a 2 naphthyloxy group a 2 chlorophenyloxy group a 2 methylphenyloxy group a 2 methoxyphenyloxy group a 2 butoxyphenyloxy group a 3 chlorophenyloxy group a 3 trifluoromethylphenyloxy group a 3 cyanophenyloxy group a 3 nitrophenyloxy group a 4 fluorophenyloxy group a 4 cyanophenyloxy group a 4 methoxyphenyloxy group a 4 dimethylaminophenyloxy group a 4 methylsulfanylphenyloxy group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenyloxy group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkylthioxy group is preferably a thioalkoxy group having a carbon number of 1 to 30 such as a methylthioxy group an ethylthioxy group a propylthioxy group an isopropylthioxy group a butylthioxy group an isobutylthioxy group a sec butylthioxy group a tert butylthioxy group a pentylthioxy group an isopentylthioxy group a hexylthioxy group a heptylthioxy group an octylthioxy group a 2 ethylhexylthioxy group a decylthioxy group a dodecylthioxy group an octadecylthioxy group a benzylthioxy group or the like.

The optionally substituted arylthioxy group is preferably an arylthioxy group having a carbon number of 6 to 30 such as a phenylthioxy group a 1 naphthylthioxy group a 2 naphthylthioxy group a 2 chlorophenylthioxy group a 2 methylphenylthioxy group a 2 methoxyphenylthioxy group a 2 butoxyphenylthioxy group a 3 chlorophenylthioxy group a 3 trifluoromethylphenylthioxy group a 3 cyanophenylthioxy group a 3 nitrophenylthioxy group a 4 fluorophenylthioxy group a 4 cyanophenylthioxy group a 4 methoxyphenylthioxy group a 4 dimethylaminophenylthioxy group a 4 methylsulfanylphenylthioxy group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenylthioxy group or the like.

The optionally substituted acyloxy group is preferably an acyloxy group having a carbon number of 2 to 20 such as an acetyloxy group a propanoyloxy group a butanoyloxy group a pentanoyloxy group a trifluoromethylcarbonyloxy group a benzoyloxy group a 1 naphthylcarbonyloxy group a 2 naphthylcarbonyloxy group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkylsulfanyl group is preferably an alkylsulfanyl group having a carbon number of 1 to 20 such as a methylsulfanyl group an ethylsulfanyl group a propylsulfanyl group an isopropylsulfanyl group a butylsulfanyl group a hexylsulfanyl group a cyclohexylsulfanyl group an octylsulfanyl group a 2 ethylhexylsulfanyl group a decanoylsulfanyl group a dodecanoylsulfanyl group an octadecanoylsulfanyl group a cyanomethylsulfanyl group a methoxymethylsulfanyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted arylsulfanyl group is preferably an arylsulfanyl group having a carbon number of 6 to 30 such as a phenylsulfanyl group a 1 naphthylsulfanyl group a 2 naphthylsulfanyl group a 2 chlorophenylsulfanyl group a 2 methylphenylsulfanyl group a 2 methoxyphenylsulfanyl group a 2 butoxyphenylsulfanyl group a 3 chlorophenylsulfanyl group a 3 trifluoromethylphenylsulfanyl group a 3 cyanophenylsulfanyl group a 3 nitrophenylsulfanyl group a 4 fluorophenylsulfanyl group a 4 cyanophenylsulfanyl group a 4 methoxyphenylsulfanyl group a 4 methylsulfanylphenylsulfanyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenylsulfanyl group a 4 dimethylaminophenylsulfanyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkylsulfinyl group is preferably an alkylsulfinyl group having a carbon number of 1 to 20 such as a methylsulfinyl group an ethylsulfinyl group a propylsulfinyl group an isopropylsulfinyl group a butylsulfinyl group a hexylsulfinyl group a cyclohexylsulfinyl group an octylsulfinyl group a 2 ethylhexylsulfinyl group a decanoylsulfinyl group a dodecanoylsulfinyl group an octadecanoylsulfinyl group a cyanomethylsulfinyl group a methoxymethylsulfinyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted arylsulfinyl group is preferably an arylsulfinyl group having a carbon number of 6 to 30 such as a phenylsulfinyl group a 1 naphthylsulfinyl group a 2 naphthylsulfinyl group a 2 chlorophenylsulfinyl group a 2 methylphenylsulfinyl group a 2 methoxyphenylsulfinyl group a 2 butoxyphenylsulfinyl group a 3 chlorophenylsulfinyl group a 3 trifluoromethylphenylsulfinyl group a 3 cyanophenylsulfinyl group a 3 nitrophenylsulfinyl group a 4 fluorophenylsulfinyl group a 4 cyanophenylsulfinyl group a 4 methoxyphenylsulfinyl group a 4 methylsulfanylphenylsulfinyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenylsulfinyl group a 4 dimethylaminophenylsulfinyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl group is preferably an alkylsulfonyl group having a carbon number of 1 to 20 such as a methylsulfonyl group an ethylsulfonyl group a propylsulfonyl group an isopropylsulfonyl group a butylsulfonyl group a hexylsulfonyl group a cyclohexylsulfonyl group an octylsulfonyl group a 2 ethylhexylsulfonyl group a decanoylsulfonyl group a dodecanoylsulfonyl group an octadecanoylsulfonyl group a cyanomethylsulfonyl group a methoxymethylsulfonyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted arylsulfonyl group is preferably an arylsulfonyl group having a carbon number of 6 to 30 such as a phenylsulfonyl group a 1 naphthylsulfonyl group a 2 naphthylsulfonyl group a 2 chlorophenylsulfonyl group a 2 methylphenylsulfonyl group a 2 methoxyphenylsulfonyl group a 2 butoxyphenylsulfonyl group a 3 chlorophenylsulfonyl group a 3 trifluoromethylphenylsulfonyl group a 3 cyanophenylsulfonyl group a 3 nitrophenylsulfonyl group a 4 fluorophenylsulfonyl group a 4 cyanophenylsulfonyl group a 4 methoxyphenylsulfonyl group a 4 methylsulfanylphenylsulfonyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenylsulfonyl group a 4 dimethylaminophenylsulfonyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted acyl group is preferably an acyl group having a carbon number of 2 to 20 such as an acetyl group a propanoyl group a butanoyl group a trifluoromethylcarbonyl group a pentanoyl group a benzoyl group a 1 naphthoyl group a 2 naphthoyl group a 4 methylsulfanylbenzoyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylbenzoyl group a 4 dimethylaminobenzoyl group a 4 diethylaminobenzoyl group a 2 chlorobenzoyl group a 2 methylbenzoyl group a 2 methoxybenzoyl group a 2 butoxybenzoyl group a 3 chlorobenzoyl group a 3 trifluoromethylbenzoyl group a 3 cyanobenzoyl group a 3 nitrobenzoyl group a 4 fluorobenzoyl group a 4 cyanobenzoyl group a 4 methoxybenzoyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl group is preferably an alkoxycarbonyl group having a carbon number of 2 to 20 such as a methoxycarbonyl group an ethoxycarbonyl group a propoxycarbonyl group a butoxycarbonyl group a hexyloxycarbonyl group an octyloxycarbonyl group a decyloxycarbonyl group an octadecyloxycarbonyl group a phenoxycarbonyl group a trifluoromethyloxycarbonyl group a 1 naphthyloxycarbonyl group a 2 naphthyloxycarbonyl group a 4 methylsulfanylphenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 phenylsulfanylphenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 dimethylaminophenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 diethylaminophenyloxycarbonyl group a 2 chlorophenyloxycarbonyl group a 2 methylphenyloxycarbonyl group a 2 methoxyphenyloxycarbonyl group a 2 butoxyphenyloxycarbonyl group a 3 chlorophenyloxycarbonyl group a 3 trifluoromethylphenyloxycarbonyl group a 3 cyanophenyloxycarbonyl group a 3 nitrophenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 fluorophenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 cyanophenyloxycarbonyl group a 4 methoxyphenyloxycarbonyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted carbamoyl group is preferably a carbamoyl group having a carbon number of 1 to 30 such as an N methylcarbamoyl group an N ethylcarbamoyl group an N propylcarbamoyl group an N butylcarbamoyl group an N hexylcarbamoyl group an N cyclohexylcarbamoyl group an N octylcarbamoyl group an N decylcarbamoyl group an N octadecylcarbamoyl group an N phenylcarbamoyl group an N 2 methylphenylcarbamoyl group an N 2 chlorophenylcarbamoyl group an N 2 isopropoxyphenylcarbamoyl group an N 2 2 ethylhexyl phenylcarbamoyl group an N 3 chlorophenylcarbamoyl group an N 3 nitrophenylcarbamoyl group an N 3 cyanophenylcarbamoyl group an N 4 methoxyphenylcarbamoyl group an N 4 cyanophenylcarbamoyl group an N 4 methylsulfanylphenylcarbamoyl group an N 4 phenylsulfanylphenylcarbamoyl group an N methyl N phenylcarbamoyl group an N N dimethylcarbamoyl group an N N butylcarbamoyl group an N N diphenylcarbamoyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted sulfamoyl group is preferably a sulfamoyl having a carbon number of 0 to 30 such as a sulfamoyl group an N alkylsulfamoyl group an N arylsulfamoyl group an N N dialkylsulfamoyl group an N N diarylsulfamoyl group an N alkyl N arylsulfamoyl group or the like. More Specific examples of the optionally substituted sulfamoyl group include an N methylsulfamoyl group an N ethylsulfamoyl group an N propylsulfamoyl group an N butylsulfamoyl group an N hexylsulfamoyl group an N cyclohexylsulfamoyl group an N octylsulfamoyl group an N 2 ethylhexylsulfamoyl group an N decylsulfamoyl group an N octadecylsulfamoyl group an N phenylsulfamoyl group an N 2 methylphenylsulfamoyl group an N 2 chlorophenylsulfamoyl group an N 2 methoxyphenylsulfamoyl group an N 2 isopropoxyphenylsulfamoyl group an N 3 chlorophenylsulfamoyl group an N 3 nitrophenylsulfamoyl group an N 3 cyanophenylsulfamoyl group an N 4 methoxyphenylsulfamoyl group an N 4 cyanophenylsulfamoyl group an N 4 dimethylaminophenylsulfamoyl group an N 4 methylsulfanylphenylsulfamoyl group an N 4 phenylsulfanylphenylsulfamoyl group an N methyl N phenylsulfamoyl group an N N dimethylsulfamoyl group an N N dibutylsulfamoyl group an N N diphenylsulfamoyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted amino group is preferably an amino group having a carbon number of 0 to 50 such as NH an N alkylamino group an N arylamino group an N acylamino group an N sulfonylamino group an N N dialkylamino group an N N diarylamino group an N alkyl N arylamino group an N N disulfonylamino group or the like. More specific examples of the optionally substituted amino group include a N methylamino group an N ethylamino group an N propylamino group an N isopropylamino group an N butylamino group an N tert butylamino group an N hexylamino group an N cyclohexylamino group an N octylamino group an N 2 ethylhexylamino group an N decylamino group an N octadecylamino group an N benzylamino group an N phenylamino group an N 2 methylphenylamino group an N 2 chlorophenylamino group an N 2 methoxyphenylamino group an N 2 isopropoxyphenylamino group an N 2 2 ethylhexyl phenylamino group an N 3 chlorophenylamino group an N 3 nitrophenylamino group an N 3 cyanophenylamino group an N 3 trifluoromethylphenylamino group an N 4 methoxyphenylamino group an N 4 cyanophenylamino group an N 4 trifluoromethylphenylamino group an N 4 methylsulfanylphenylamino group an N 4 phenylsulfanylphenylamino group an N 4 dimethylaminophenylamino group an N methyl N phenylamino group an N N dimethylamino group an N N diethylamino group an N N dibutylamino group an N N diphenylamino group an N N diacetylamino group an N N dibenzylamino group an N N dibutylcarbonyl amino group an N N dimethylsulfonyl amino group an N N diethylsulfonyl amino group an N N dibutylsulfonyl amino group an N N diphenylsulfonyl amino group a morpholino group a 3 5 dimethylmorpholino group a carbazole group or the like.

The optionally substituted phosphinoyl group is preferably a phosphinoyl group having a carbon number of 2 to 50 such as a dimethylphosphinoyl group a diethylphosphinoyl group a dipropylphosphinoyl group a diphenylphosphinoyl group a dimethoxyphosphinoyl group a diethoxyphosphinoyl group a dibenzylphosphinoyl group a bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl phosphinoyl group or the like.

The optionally substituted heterocyclic group is preferably an aromatic or aliphatic heterocyclic group including a nitrogen atom an oxygen atom a sulfur atom or a phosphorus atom such as a thienyl group a benzo b thienyl group a naphtho 2 3 b thienyl group a thianthrenyl group a furyl group a pyranyl group an isobenzofuranyl group a chromenyl group a xanthenyl group a phenoxathiinyl group a 2H pyrrolyl group a pyrrolyl group an imidazolyl group a pyrazolyl group a pyridyl group a pyrazinyl group a pyrimidinyl group a pyridazinyl group an indolizinyl group an isoindolyl group a 3H indolyl group an indolyl group a 1H indazolyl group a purinyl group a 4H quinolizinyl group an isoquinolyl group a quinolyl group a phthalazinyl group a naphthyridinyl group a quinoxalnilyl group a quinazolinyl group a cinnolinyl group a pteridinyl group a 4aH carbazolyl group a carbazolyl group a carbolinyl group a phenanthridinyl group an acridinyl group a perimidinyl group a phenanthrolinyl group a phenazinyl group a phenarsazinyl group an isothiazolyl group a phenothiazinyl group an isoxazolyl group a furazanyl group a phenoxazinyl group an isochromanyl group a chromanyl group a pyrrolidinyl group a pyrrolinyl group an imidazolidinyl group an imidazolinyl group a pyrazolidinyl group a pyrazolinyl group a piperidyl group a piperazinyl group an indolinyl group an isoindolinyl group a quinuclidinyl group a morpholinyl group a thioxantolyl group or the like.

The above described optionally substituted alkyl group optionally substituted aryl group optionally substituted alkenyl group optionally substituted alkynyl group optionally substituted alkoxy group optionally substituted aryloxy group optionally substituted alkylthioxy group optionally substituted arylthioxy group optionally substituted acyloxy group optionally substituted alkylsulfanyl group optionally substituted arylsulfanyl group optionally substituted alkylsulfinyl group optionally substituted arylsulfinyl group optionally substituted alkylsulfonyl group optionally substituted arylsulfonyl group optionally substituted acyl group optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl group optionally substituted carbamoyl group optionally substituted sulfamoyl group optionally substituted amino group and optionally substituted heterocyclic group may be further substituted by a substituent.

Examples of the substituent include a halogen group such as a fluorine atom a chlorine atom a bromine atom and an iodine atom an alkoxy group such as a methoxy group an ethoxy group and a tert butoxy group an aryloxy group such as a phenoxy group and a p tolyloxy group an alkoxycarbonyl group such as a methoxycarbonyl group a butoxycarbonyl group and a phenoxycarbonyl group an acyloxy group such as an acetoxy group a propionyloxy group and a benzoyloxy group an acyl group such as an acetyl group a benzoyl group an isobutyryl group an acryloyl group a methacryloyl group and a methoxalyl group an alkylsulfanyl group such as a methylsulfanyl group and a tert butylsulfanyl group an arylsulfanyl group such as a phenylsulfanyl group and a p tolylsulfanyl group an alkylamino group such as a methylamino group and a cyclohexylamino group a dialkylamino group such as a dimethylamino group a diethylamino group a morpholino group and a piperidino group an arylamino group such as a phenylamino group and a p tolylamino group an alkyl group such as an methyl group an ethyl group a tert butyl group and a dodecyl group an aryl group such as a phenyl group a p tolyl group a xylyl group a cumenyl group a naphthyl group an anthryl group and a phenanthryl group a hydroxyl group a carboxyl group a formyl group a mercapto group a sulfo group a mesyl group a p toluenesulfonyl group an amino group a nitro group a cyano group a trifluoromethyl group a trichloromethyl group a trimethylsilyl group a phosphinico group a phosphono group a trimethyl ammoniumyl group a dimethylsulfoniumyl group a triphenylphenacylphosphoniumyl group and the like.

Among these X is preferably an optionally substituted alkyl group an optionally substituted aryl group an optionally substituted alkenyl group an optionally substituted alkynyl group an optionally substituted alkoxy group an optionally substituted aryloxy group an optionally substituted alkylthioxy group an optionally substituted arylthioxy group or an optionally substituted amino group from the viewpoint of improving solubility to a solvent and absorption efficiency at a long wavelength region.

The bivalent organic group represented by Y may have a structure shown in below. In the structures shown below represents a position at which Y is bonded to an adjacent carbon atom in Formula 2 .

The novel oxime compound in the present exemplary embodiment is preferably a compound represented by Formula 3 below.

In Formula 3 R and X each independently represent a monovalent substituent A represents a bivalent organic group Ar represents an aryl group and n is an integer of 0 to 5.

R X A Ar and n in Formula 3 are defined in the same manner as R X A Ar and n in Formula 2 respectively and preferable examples thereof are also the same as those of Formula 2 .

Specific examples of the novel oxime compound in the present exemplary embodiment will be shown in below. However the present exemplary embodiment is not limited thereto.

The novel oxime compound in the present exemplary embodiment has a maximum absorption wavelength in a wavelength region of 350 nm to 500 nm. More preferably the novel oxime compounds has a maximum absorption wavelength in a wavelength region of 360 nm to 480 nm. It is particularly preferable that the novel oxime compounds has a maximum absorption wavelength in a wavelength region of 365 nm or 405 nm.

As described above the novel oxime compound has an absorption in a longer wavelength region compared to conventional oxime compounds. Consequently the novel oxime compound may exhibit excellent sensitivity when exposed to light of a wavelength of 365 nm or 405 nm.

The novel oxime compound in the present exemplary embodiment preferably has a molar absorbance coefficient at 365 nm or 405 nm of 10 000 to 300 000 more preferably 15 000 to 300 000 and particularly preferably 20 000 to 200 000 from the viewpoint of sensitivity.

The molar absorbance coefficient of the novel oxime compounds can be measured at a concentration of 0.01 g L using ethyl acetate as a solvent by an ultraviolet visible spectrophotometer CARRY 5 SPECTROPHOTOMETER trade name manufactured by Varian Inc. .

The novel oxime compound in the present exemplary embodiment can be synthesized for example by the processes shown below. But the process is not limited thereto.

The content of the novel oxime compound in the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment is preferably 0.1 to 30 by mass more preferably 1 to 25 by mass and particularly preferably 2 to 20 by mass in the total solid content of the photosensitive resin composition.

The novel oxime compound in the present exemplary embodiment decomposes upon application of light and serves as a photopolymerizable initiator that initiates and promotes polymerization of a photopolymerizable compound. In particular the novel oxime compound exhibits excellent sensitivity with respect to light of 365 nm or 405 nm.

The photopolymerization initiator may be used in combination with a sensitizer or a light stabilizer.

Specific examples of the sensitizer or light stabilizer include benzoin benzoinmethylether 9 fluorenone 2 chloro 9 fluorenone 2 methyl 9 fluorenone 9 anthrone 2 bromo 9 anthrone 2 ethyl 9 anthrone 9 10 anthraquinone 2 ethyl 9 10 anthraquinone 2 t butyl 9 10 anthraquinone 2 6 dichloro 9 10 anthraquinone xanthone 2 methylxanthone 2 methoxyxanthone 2 ethoxyxanthone thioxanthone 2 4 diethylthioxanthone acridone 10 butyl 2 chloroacridone benzyl dibenzylacetone p dimethylamino phenylstrylketone p dimethylamino phenyl p methylstrylketone benzophenone p dimethylamino benzophenone or Michler s ketone p diethylamino benzophenone benzoanthrone benzothiazole based compounds described in JP B No. 51 48516 and the like TINUVIN 1130 TINUVIN 400 trade name manufactured by Ciba Japan K.K. and the like.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment may include other initiator than the above described photopolymerization initiator.

Specific examples of such initiators include the vicinal polyketolaldonyl compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 2 367 660 the carbonyl compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 2 367 661 and U.S. Pat. No. 2 367 670 the acyloin ethers disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 2 448 828 the aromatic acyloin compounds substituted by hydrocarbon disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 2 722 512 the polynuclear quinone compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 046 127 and U.S. Pat. No. 2 951 758 the combination of triallylimidazole dimer and p aminophenyl ketone disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 549 367 the benzothiazole based compound and trihalomethyl s triazine based compounds disclosed in JP B No. 51 48516 and the like.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment may contain only one kind of photopolymerization initiatior or may contain two or more kinds in combination.

The content of the photopolymerization initiatior when two or more kinds are used the total content thereof in the total solid content of the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment is preferably 3 to 20 by mass more preferably 4 to 19 by mass and particularly preferably 5 to 18 by mass from the viewpoint of achieving the effects of the present exemplary embodiment more effectively.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains a solvent. Examples of the solvent include acetone methylethyl ketone cyclohexane ethyl acetate ethylene dichloride tetrahydrofuran toluene ethylene glycol monomethyl ether ethylene glycol monoethyl ether ethylene glycol dimethyl ether propylene glycol monomethyl ether propylene glycol monoethyl ether acetylacetone cyclohexanone diacetone alcohol ethylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate ethylene glycol ethyl ether acetate ethylene glycol monoisopropyl ether ethylene glycol monobutyl ether acetate 3 methoxypropanol methoxymethoxyethanol diethylene glycol monomethyl ether diethylene glycol monoethyl ether diethylene glycol dimethyl ether diethylene glycol diethyl ether propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate propylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate 3 methoxypropylacetate N N dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide butyrolactone methyl lactate ethyl lactate and the like.

The solvent may be used alone or as a mixture of two or more kinds. The concentration of the solid content to the solvent is preferably 2 to 60 by mass.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment may contain a sensitizer. The sensitizer is preferably capable of sensitizing the above described photopolymerization initiatior by an electron transfer mechanism or energy transfer mechanism.

The sensitizer is preferably selected from the following compounds and has an absorption wavelength in a wavelength region of 300 nm to 450 nm.

Polynuclear aromatics for example phenanthrene anthracene pyrene perylene triphenylene or 9 10 dialkoxyanthracene xanthenes for example flourescein eosin erythrosine rhodamine B or rose bengal thioxanthones isopropylthioxanthone diethylthioxanthone or chlorothioxanthone cyanines for example thiacarbocyanine or oxacarbocyanine merocyanines for example merocyanine or carbomerocyanine phthalocyanines thiazines for example thionine methylene blue or toluidine blue acridines for example acridine orange chloroflavin or acriflavin anthraquinones for example anthraquinone squaryliums for example squarylium acridine orange coumarins for example 7 diethylamino 4 methylcoumarin ketocoumarin phenothiazines phenazines strylbenzenes azo compounds diphenylmethane triphenylmethane distrylbenzenes carbazoles porphyrins spiro compounds quinacridone indigo stryl pyrylium compounds pyrometene compounds pyrazolotriazole compounds benzothiazole compounds barbituric acid derivatives thiobarbituric acid derivatives acetophenone benzophenone thioxanthone aromatic ketone compounds such as Michler s ketone heterocyclic compounds such as N aryloxazolidinone and the like.

When the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains the sensitizer the content of the sensitizer in the photosensitive resin composition is preferably 0.1 to 20 by mass and more preferably 0.5 to 15 by mass in the solid content of the composition from the viewpoint of light absorption efficiency at a deep portion and initiation decomposition efficiency.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment may contain a cosensitizer. The cosensitizer has a function of further improving the sensitivity of the above mentioned photopolymerization initiatior or sensitizer with respect to active radiation rays or suppressing the inhibition of polymerization of the photopolymerizable compound due to oxygen or the like.

Examples of such cosensitizers include amines for example the compounds described in M. R. Sander et al. Journal of Polymer Society Vol. 10 p. 3173 1972 JP B No. 44 20189 JP A No. 51 82102 JP A No. 52 134692 JP ANo. 59 138205 JP A No. 60 84305 JP A No. 62 18537 JP A No. 64 33104 Research Disclosure No. 33825 and the like and specific examples thereof include triethanolamine p dimethylaminobenzoic acid ethyl ester p formyldimethylaniline p methylthiodimethylaniline and the like.

Other examples of the cosensitizer include thiols and sulfides for example the thiol compounds described in JP A No. 53 702 JP B No. 55 500806 and JP A No. 5 142772 the disulfide compounds described in JP A No. 56 75643 and the like and specific examples include 2 mercaptobenzothiazole 2 mercaptobenzooxazole 2 mercaptobenzoimidazole 2 mercapto 4 3H quinazoline mercaptonaphthalene and the like.

Other examples of the cosensitizer include amino acid compounds for example N phenylglycine and the like organic metal compounds described in JP B No. 48 42965 for example tributyl tin acetate and the like hydrogen donors described in JP B No. 55 34414 sulfur compounds described in JP A No. 6 308727 for example trithiane and the like and the like.

When the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains the cosensitizer the content of the cosensitizer is preferably in the range of 0.1 to 30 by mass more preferably in the range of 1 to 25 by mass and further preferably in the range of 0.5 to 20 by mass in the total solid content of the photosensitive resin composition from the viewpoint of improving a curing rate by controlling the balance of polymerization growth rate and chain transfer.

In order to inhibit unnecessary thermal polymerization of the photopolymerizable compound during preparation or storage a small amount of thermal polymerization inhibitor may be added to the photosensitive resin composition.

Examples of the thermal polymerization inhibitor that may be used in the present exemplary embodiment include hydroquinone p methoxyphenol di t butyl p cresole pyrogallol t butylcatechol benzoquinone 4 4 thiobis 3 methyl 6 t butylphenol 2 2 methylenebis 4 methyl 6 t butylphenol and a primary cerium salt of N nitrosophenylhydroxyamine.

When the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains the thermal polymerization inhibitor the addition amount of the thermal polymerization inhibitor is preferably about 0.01 to about 5 by mass to the total solid content of the photosensitive resin composition.

Further if necessary a higher fatty acid derivative such as behenic acid or behenic acid amide may be added such that the higher fatty acid derivative is present on the surface of a coating film after application and drying in order to prevent the inhibition of polymerization due to oxygen. The addition amount of the higher fatty acid derivative is preferably about 0.5 to about 10 by mass in the total mass of the composition.

An adhesion promoter may be added to the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment in order to improve the adhesion to a hard surface such as a support. Examples of the adhesion promoter include a silane coupling agent and a titanium coupling agent.

The silane coupling agent include for example 2 aminoethyl aminopropyltrimethoxysilane 2 aminoethyl aminopropyldimethoxysilane 3 4 epoxycyclohexyl ethyltrimethoxysilane aminopropyltrimethoxysilane aminopropyltriethoxysilane methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane methacryloxypropyltriethoxysilane acryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane acryloxypropyltriethoxysilane isocyanatepropyltrimethoxysilane isocyanatepropyltriethoxysilane N N vinylbenzylaminoethyl aminopropyltrimethoxysilane.hydrochloride glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane aminosilane mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane mercaptopropyltriethoxysilane methyltrimethoxysilane methyltriethoxysilane vinyltriacetoxysilane chloropropyltrimethoxysilane hexamethyldisilazane anilinopropyltrimethoxysilane vinyltrimethoxysilane vinyltriethoxysilane vinyltris methoxyethoxy silane octadecyldimethyl 3 trimethoxysilyl propyl ammonium chloride chloropropylmethyldimethoxysilane mercaptopropylmethyldimethoxysilane methyltrichlorosilane dimethyldichlorosilane trimethylchlorosilane 2 3 4 epoxycyclohexyl ethyltrimethoxysilane bisallyltrimethoxysilane tetraethoxysilane bis trimethoxysilyl hexane phenyltrimethoxysilane N 3 acryloxy 2 hydroxypropyl 3 aminopropyltriethoxysilane N 3 methacryloxy 2 hydroxypropyl 3 aminopropyltriethoxysilane methacryloxymethyl methyldiethoxysilane acryloxymethyl methyldimethoxysilane and the like.

Among these the silane coupling agent is preferably methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane methacryloxypropyltriethoxysilane acryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane acryloxypropyltriethoxysilane mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane aminopropyltriethoxysilane or phenyltrimethoxysilane most preferably methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane.

When the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains the adhesion promoter the addition amount of the adhesion promoter is preferably 0.5 to 30 by mass and more preferably 0.7 to 20 by mass in the total solid content of the photosensitive resin composition.

Further known additives such as an inorganic filler a plasticizer or an etching agent may be added to the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment in order to improve the properties of the cured film.

Examples of the plasticizer include dioctylphthalate didodecylphthalate triethylene glycol dicaprylate dimethylglycol phthalate tricresyl phosphate dioctyladipate dibutylsebacate triacetylglycerin and the like. A binder may be used in an amount of 10 by mass or less in the total mass of the photopolymerizable compound and the resin.

The light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment is formed from the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment and has a ratio of optical density OD OD of an optical density at a wavelength of 1200 nm OD to an optical density at a wavelength of 365 nm OD is 0.5 or more and 3 or less.

When the light shielding color filter has the aforementioned constitution occurrence of steps in the periphery of the light shielding color filter may be suppressed thereby improving light shielding properties at the center and periphery of the light shielding color filter.

Details of the optical density of the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment are explained in the above section concerning the photosensitive resin composition and preferable embodiments thereof are also the same as that mentioned in the above section.

The thickness of the light shielding color filter is not particularly limited. However from the viewpoint of more effectively achieving the effects of the present exemplary embodiment the thickness is preferably 0.1 m to 10 m more preferably 0.3 m to 5.0 m and particularly preferably 0.5 m to 3.0 m.

The size of the light shielding color filter the length of each side is not particularly limited. However from the viewpoint of more effectively achieving the effects of the present exemplary embodiment the size is preferably 50 m or more more preferably 100 m or more further preferably 200 m or more yet more preferably 500 m or more and particularly preferably 1000 m or more. The upper limit of the size is not particularly limited but is preferably 3000 m.

In addition the area of the light shielding color filter is not particularly limited. However from the viewpoint of more effectively achieving the effects of the present exemplary embodiment the area is preferably 0.0025 mmor more more preferably 0.01 mmor more further preferably 0.04 mmor more yet more preferably 0.05 mmor more even more preferably 0.2 mmor more and particularly preferably 1 mmor more. The upper limit of the area is not particularly limited but is preferably 9 mm.

The light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment can be suitably used for a solid state image sensor such as a CCD or CMOS particularly suitably used for a solid state image sensor such as a CCD or CMOS having more than a million pixels.

The method of producing the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment is not particularly limited. However one preferable example is a method including applying the above described photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment onto a support exposing the composition to light through a mask and developing the composition to form a pattern hereinafter referred to as the method of producing the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment .

Specifically the method of producing the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment includes applying the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment onto a support to form a photosensitive layer hereinafter sometimes briefly called as the photosensitive layer forming step exposing the above mentioned photosensitive layer to light through a mask hereinafter sometimes briefly called as the exposing step and after the exposure developing the above mentioned photosensitive layer to form a pattern hereinafter sometimes briefly called as the development step .

In the following each step in the method of producing the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment will be explained.

The photosensitive layer forming step includes applying the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment onto a support to form a photosensitive layer.

Examples of the support that can be used in this step include a photoelectric conversion element substrate used in solid state image sensors or the like such as a silicon substrate complementary metal oxide film semiconductor CMOS or the like.

As necessary a basecoat layer may be provided onto the support in order to improve adhesion to an upper layer prevent the diffusion of substances or flatten the surface of the substrate.

The method of applying the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment onto a support may be any application method such as slit application inkjet application rotation application flow casting application roll application screen printing or the like.

The thickness of the film formed from the photosensitive resin composition is preferably 0.35 m to 3.0 m and more preferably 0.50 m to 2.5 m from the viewpoint of resolution and development properties.

The photosensitive resin composition applied onto the support is usually dried under the conditions of 70 C. to 130 C. more preferably 70 C. to 110 C. for about 2 minutes to 4 minutes thereby forming a photosensitive layer.

In the exposing step the photosensitive layer that has been formed in the above mentioned photosensitive layer forming step is exposed to light for curing in a case of performing the exposure through a mask only a portion of the film that has been irradiated with light is cured .

The exposure is preferably performed with radiation rays. The radiation rays that can be used in the exposure is particularly preferably ultraviolet rays such as g line rays or i line rays and a high pressure mercury lamp is preferably used as a light source. The radiation intensity is preferably 5 mJ to 1500 mJ more preferably 10 mJ to 1000 mJ and most preferably 10 mJ to 800 mJ.

A development is performed following the exposing step. In the development step portions that have not been irradiated with light in the exposing step are removed with the use of an aqueous alkali solution leaving the portions that have been irradiated with light to cure.

The developer is desirably an organic alkaline developer since it causes little damage to the circuit or the like. The development temperature is usually 20 C. to 30 C. and the development time is usually 20 to 240 seconds more preferably 20 to 90 seconds .

The development is preferably performed using an aqueous alkali solution prepared by diluting an organic alkali compounds such as ammonia water ethylamine diethylamine dimethylethanolamine tetramethylammonium hydroxide tetraethylammonium hydroxide choline pyrrole piperidine and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5 4 0 7 undecene in pure water to a concentration of 0.001 to 10 mass preferably 0.01 to 1 mass . When such an aqueous alkali solution is used as a developer the photosensitive layer is generally washed rinsed with pure water after the development.

The method of producing the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment may further include following the photosensitive layer forming step exposing step and development step described above a curing step in which the pattern that has been formed is cured by heating and or exposing to light.

The solid state image sensor of the present exemplary embodiment includes the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment described above.

Since the solid state image sensor of the present exemplary embodiment is provided with the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment in which degradation of light shielding performances at the periphery is suppressed it is possible to reduce the noise and improve the color reproducibility of the solid state image sensor.

The constitution of the solid state image sensor of the present exemplary embodiment is not particularly limited as long as it has the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment and functions as a solid state image sensor. However one example of the constitution of the solid state image sensor includes on a support a light receiving element formed from a plural number of photo diodes and polysilicon or the like which serves as a light receiving area of the solid state image sensor such as a CCD image sensor or a CMOS image sensor and the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment on the surface of the support opposite to the surface on which the light receiving element is formed.

The second exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides a photosensitive resin composition including titanium black a photopolymerizable compound a resin A having an acid value of from 70 to 250 mgKOH g a resin B having an acid value of from 26 to 65 mgKOH g a photopolymerization initiator and a solvent.

In order to prepare a fine pattern using a photosensitive resin composition including titanium black it is necessary that the resin included in the composition has a high acid value and favorable development solubility.

However even when a resin having a high acid value is simply used deterioration in temporal stability of the photosensitive resin composition may occur.

In light of the above the object of the present exemplary embodiment is to provide a photosensitive resin composition that can form a fine pattern with less amount of development residue and exhibits excellent temporal stability a light shielding color filter having a fine pattern with less amount of development residue a method of producing the same and a solid state image sensor having less noise and excellent color reproducibility.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment includes titanium black a photopolymerizable compound a resin A having an acid value of 70 mg KOH g or more and 250 mg KOH g or less a resin B having an acid value of 26 mg KOH g or more and 65 mg KOH g or less a photopolymerization initiator and a solvent.

In order to prepare a fine pattern with a photosensitive resin composition including titanium black it is necessary that the resin included in the composition has a high acid value and favorable development solubility. However when a resin having a high acid value is simply used temporal stability of the photosensitive resin composition may deteriorate. On the other hand when only a resin having a low acid value is used development residue may be generated upon preparation of a fine pattern.

In this regard when the photosensitive resin composition has a structure according to the present exemplary embodiment mentioned above it may be possible to improve the temporal stability of the photosensitive resin composition and to reduce the amount of development residue upon formation of a fine pattern. Further the fine pattern formed using the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment may exhibit favorable adhesion to a substrate on which the fine pattern is formed.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment is particularly suitable for forming a fine pattern having a pattern size of 300 m or less more preferably 100 m or less .

The acid value unit mg KOH g of the resin in the present exemplary embodiment is the amount mg of potassium hydroxide KOH that is necessary to neutralize 1 g of the resin.

The acid value in the present exemplary embodiment refers to a value measured according to a process defined in Section 11.1 of JIS K 5407 1990 .

Resin A in the present exemplary embodiment is not particularly limited as long as it has an acid value of 70 mg KOH g or more and 250 mg KOH g or less. If the acid value of resin A is less than 70 mg KOH g or more than 250 mg KOH g temporal stability or occurrence of development residue may deteriorate.

In addition resin B in the present exemplary embodiment is not particularly limited as long as it has an acid value of 26 mg KOH g or more and 65 mg KOH g or less. If the acid value of resin B is less than 26 mg KOH g or more than 65 mg KOH g temporal stability or occurrence of development residue may deteriorate.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment may contain a single kind of resin A and a single kind of resin B respectively or may contain two or more kinds of resin A and or resin B. In addition the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment may contain other resin than resins A and B.

The acid value of resin A and resin B in the present exemplary embodiment is preferably within the range described below from the viewpoint of more effectively improving temporal stability and suppressing the amount of development residue at the same time.

Specifically the acid value of resin A is preferably 70 mg KOH g or more and 250 mg KOH g or less and more preferably 75 mg KOH g or more and 200 mg KOH g or less.

In addition the acid value of resin B is preferably 26 mg KOH g or more and 65 mg KOH g or less and more preferably 30 mg KOH g or more and 60 mg KOH g or less.

The weight average molecular weight of resin A and resin B in the present exemplary embodiment and the mass ratio resin A resin B is preferably within the range described below from the viewpoint of more effectively improving temporal stability and suppressing the amount of development residue at the same time.

The weight average molecular weight of resin A is not particularly limited but is preferably 1 000 to 100 000 more preferably 2 000 to 50 000 and particularly preferably 3 000 to 30 000 from the viewpoint of development properties.

The weight average molecular weight of resin B is not particularly limited but is preferably 1 000 to 100 000 more preferably 2 000 to 50 000 and particularly preferably 3 000 to 30 000 from the viewpoint of temporal stability.

The mass ratio Resin A Resin B of resin A and resin B in the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment is preferably 0.5 to 10.5 more preferably 1 to 10 and particularly preferably 2 to 8.

The total content of resin A and of resin B in the total solid content of the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment is preferably 1 to 50 mass more preferably 2 to 40 mass and particularly preferably 5 to 30 mass .

The method of regulating the acid value of resin A and resin B to the above mentioned range in the present exemplary embodiment is not particularly limited. The method may be for example a method of regulating the acid value by controlling the content of a polymeric compound having an acidic group in polymeric compounds used as the raw material of the resin a method of regulating the acid value by controlling the ratio of an acidic group to be introduced into a main chain after the synthesis of the main chain part of the resin a method of regulating the acid value by synthesizing a resin having an acidic group in a side chain and reacting a specific compound with the acidic group in the side chain while controlling the reaction rate.

Hereinafter each component of the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment will be explained.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains resin A and resin B and optionally other resin hereinafter any of these resins are referred to as the resin .

The resin used in the present exemplary embodiment may be similar to the resins that may be used in the above mentioned first exemplary embodiment and preferable examples are also similar.

The titanium black used in the present exemplary embodiment may be similar to the titanium black that may be used in the above mentioned first exemplary embodiment and preferable examples are also similar. The dispersion agent and dispersion medium used for the dispersion of titanium black are also similar to those that may used in the above mentioned first exemplary embodiment.

The content of titanium black in the photosensitive resin composition is not particularly limited. However in order to obtain a thin film with high optical density the content of titanium black is preferably as high as possible preferably 5 to 98 mass further preferably 10 to 95 mass and particularly preferably 15 to 95 mass .

If the content of titanium black is 5 mass or more it may be possible to obtain high optical density even with a small film thickness. If the content of titanium black is 98 mass or less it may be possible to more effectively promote light curing and improve film strength thereby widening the development latitude.

A black colorant other than titanium black may be used in combination with titanium black in the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment. The black colorant other than titanium black that may be used may be similar to those that may be used in the above mentioned first exemplary embodiment and preferable examples are also similar.

The black colorant other than titanium black may be any known black pigments or black dyes but preferably carbon black iron oxide manganese oxide graphite or the like from the viewpoint of achieving high optical density with a small amount. Among them carbon black is particularly preferred.

The average particle size of the black colorant other than titanium black average primary particle size is preferably small from the viewpoint of occurrence of foreign substances and the influence thereof on the yield in the preparation of a solid state image sensor. The average primary particle size is preferably 100 nm or less further preferably 50 nm or less and particularly preferably 30 nm or less.

The average particle size can be measured by applying a coloring agent onto a suitable substrate and observing it by a scanning electron microscope.

In a case that the black colorant other than titanium black is used in addition to titanium black in the present exemplary embodiment the total content of titanium black and the black colorant other than titanium black in the photosensitive resin composition is not particularly limited. However the total content is preferably 5 to 98 mass further preferably 10 to 95 mass and particularly preferably 15 to 95 mass from the viewpoint of optical density film strength development latitude or the like.

In addition known coloring agents such as a pigment or a dye of red blue green yellow cyan magenta violet orange or the like may also be added in order to control the light shielding effects at a desired wavelength.

The coloring agent to be used in combination additional coloring agent is used at an amount of preferably in the range of 2 to 50 mass parts more preferably in the range of 2 to 30 mass parts and most preferably in the range of 2 to 10 mass parts with respect to 100 mass parts of the above described titanium black and the black colorant other than titanium black.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains a photopolymerizable compound. The photopolymerizable compound may be similar to those that may be used in the above mentioned first exemplary embodiment and preferable examples are also similar.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains a photopolymerization initiator. The photopolymerization initiator may be similar to those that may be used in the above mentioned first exemplary embodiment and preferable examples are also similar.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment contains a solvent. The solvent may be similar to those that may be used in above mentioned first exemplary embodiment and preferable examples are also similar.

The photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment may contain other additives such as a sensitizer a cosensitizer a thermal polymerization inhibitor an adhesion promoter or the like. Such additives may be similar to those that may be used in the above mentioned first exemplary embodiment and preferable examples are also similar.

The light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment is formed from the above described photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment.

Since the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment is formed from the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment the light shielding color filter may have a fine pattern with a less amount of development residue. In addition the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment may exhibit favorable adhesion to a substrate on which the light shielding color filter is formed.

The light shielding color filter in the present exemplary embodiment refers to a light shielding pattern obtained by exposing to light the photosensitive resin composition including a black colorant a photopolymerizable compound a resin a photopolymerization initiator and a solvent and developing the photosensitive resin composition that has been exposed to light. The color of the light shielding color filter in the present exemplary embodiment may be an achromatic color such as black or gray or may be black gray or the like mixed with a chromatic color.

In addition since the light shielding color filter is obtained by exposing to light a photosensitive resin composition comprising a black colorant a photopolymerizable compound a resin a photopolymerization initiator and a solvent and developing the photosensitive resin composition that has been exposed to light the composition may also be referred to as a light shielding film or light shielding filter.

The thickness of the light shielding color filter is not particularly limited but is preferably 0.1 m to 10 m more preferably 0.3 m to 5.0 m and particularly preferably 0.5 m to 3.0 m from the viewpoint of more effectively achieving the effects of the present exemplary embodiment.

The pattern size of the light shielding color filter is not particularly limited but is preferably 1000 m or less more preferably 500 m or less and particularly preferably 300 m or less from the viewpoint of more effectively achieving the effects of the present exemplary embodiment. The lower limit of the pattern size is not particularly limited but preferably 1 m.

Further the spectroscopic properties of the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment are not particularly limited. However the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment has a ratio OD ODof the optical density at 1200 nm wavelength OD and the optical density at 365 nm wavelength OD of preferably 0.5 or more and 3 or less from the viewpoint of improving the light shielding performance in a infrared region that is necessary for a solid state image sensor achieving the balance between the light shielding performances in the visible region and the infrared region and more effectively achieving the effects of the present exemplary embodiment or the like.

The above mentioned optical density OD can be measured by a method similar to that described in the above mentioned first exemplary embodiment. In addition the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment preferably satisfies the requirements in optical density as mentioned in the first present exemplary embodiment from the viewpoint of achieving the balance between the light shielding performances in the visible region and the infrared region and from the viewpoint of more effectively achieving the effects of the present exemplary embodiment.

The light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment can be suitably used for a solid state image sensor such as CCDs and CMOSs and in particular suitably used for a solid state image sensor such as CCDs and CMOSs having more than a million pixels.

The method of forming the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment explained above is not particularly limited. However the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment may be prepared by a method as mentioned in the above mentioned first exemplary embodiment and preferable conditions are also similar.

The solid state image sensor of the present exemplary embodiment includes the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment as described above.

Since the solid state image sensor of the present exemplary embodiment includes the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment that with a reduced amount of development residue reduction in noise and improvement in color reproducibility may be achieved in the solid state image sensor.

The constitution of the solid state image sensor of the present exemplary embodiment is not particularly limited as long as it has the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment and functions as a solid state image sensor. However one example of the constitution of the solid state image sensor includes on a support a light receiving element formed from a plural number of photo diodes and polysilicon or the like which serves as a light receiving area of the solid state image sensor such as a CCD image sensor or a CMOS image sensor and the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment on the surface of the support

The following are exemplary embodiments of the present invention. However the invention is not limited thereto.

Hereinafter the above mentioned first exemplary embodiment will be further explained with reference to the following Examples. However the present exemplary embodiment is not limited to Examples below as long as it is not beyond the gist of the present exemplary embodiment. In addition part and are based on mass unless otherwise stated.

Light shielding color filters were prepared using different photosensitive resin compositions and the width of the step region of the color filters was measured. Hereinafter preparation of the photosensitive resin composition will be specifically explained.

The following composition was subjected to a high viscosity dispersion treatment with a pair of rollers to prepare a dispersion. The viscosity of the dispersion was 40000 mPa s.

In this process kneading may be performed for 30 minutes with a kneader before the high viscosity dispersion treatment.

To the obtained dispersion component A having the following composition was added and the mixture was stirred under the conditions of 3000 rpm using a homogenizer for 3 hours. The obtained solution of the mixture was subjected to a dispersion treatment with a dispersion machine DISPERMAT trade name manufactured by GETZMANN GMBH with use of 0.3 mm zirconia beads for 4 hours thereby obtaining a titanium black dispersion.

The following composition was subjected to a high viscosity dispersion treatment with a pair of rollers. The viscosity of the dispersion was 70000 mPa s.

In the process kneading may be performed for 30 minutes with a kneader before the high viscosity dispersion treatment.

To the obtained dispersion component B having the following composition was added and the mixture was stirred in the conditions of 3000 rpm using a homogenizer for 3 hours. The obtained mixture was subjected to a dispersion treatment with a dispersion machine DISPERMAT trade name manufactured by GETZMANN GMBH with use of 0.3 mm zirconia beads for 4 hours thereby obtaining a carbon black dispersion. The viscosity of the carbon black dispersion was 40.0 mPa s.

Sample 1 3 was prepared in a similar manner to sample 1 1 except that an equal amount of triazine based photopolymerization initiator shown below compound VI was used instead of the oxime based photopolymerization initiator.

Sample 1 4 was prepared in a similar manner to sample 1 1 except that an equal amount of aminoalkylphenone based photopolymerization initiator shown below IRGACURE 369 trade name manufactured by Ciba Japan K.K. was used instead of the oxime based photopolymerization initiator.

Sample 1 5 was prepared in a similar manner to sample 1 1 except that an equal amount of compound J 2 resin weight average molecular weight 30 000 shown below was used instead of compound J 1 resin .

Sample 1 6 was prepared in a similar manner to sample 1 1 except that titanium black powder TILAK D trade name fine particle type manufactured by AKO KASEI CO. LTD. was used instead of 13M T.

Sample 1 7 was prepared in a similar manner to sample 1 1 except that titanium black powder TILAK D trade name ultrafine particle type manufactured by AKO KASEI CO. LTD. was used instead of 13M T.

Samples 1 1 to 1 7 photosensitive resin compositions obtained above were each applied onto a silicon wafer by a spin coating method and then heated on a hot plate at 120 C. for 2 minutes thereby preparing a photosensitive layer.

Then the obtained photosensitive layer was exposed to light by an i line stepper at an exposure amount of 500 mJ cm through a photo mask having a pattern of 3 mm square.

Following the exposure the photosensitive layer was subjected to paddle development using a 0.3 aqueous solution of tetramethylammonium hydroxide at 23 C. for 60 seconds. Thereafter the photosensitive layer was rinsed with a spin shower and further washed with pure water thereby producing a light shielding color filter.

The obtained light shielding color filter was subjected to measurement of the optical density at 1200 nm wavelength OD and the optical density at 365 nm wavelength OD respectively using an optical densiometer U 4100 trade name manufactured by Hitachi High Technologies Corporation. and the ratio OD ODwas calculated. Further in a similar manner the optical density at 1100 nm wavelength OD and the optical density at 900 nm wavelength OD were measured and the ratios OD ODand OD ODwere calculated. The values of OD OD OD ODand OD ODmeasured at each example are shown in Table 1. Further the OD value at a wavelength of 900 nm to 1300 nm was measured and the results are shown in Table 1.

Then the obtained light shielding color filter was observed with an optical microscope 100 fold magnification to measure the width of a step region. The narrower the width of the step region is the more favorable the light shielding performance at the center and the periphery are.

In Table 1 symbols such as T 1 represent the above described compound T 1 or the like. Further the content of photopolymerization initiator is shown as the content mass in the total solid content of the photosensitive resin composition. The same applies to the following Table 2 and Table 3.

As shown in Table 1 when the light shielding color filter of the present exemplary embodiment had a ratio OD ODof 0.5 or more and 3 or less the width of the step region was smaller. Further the width of the step region was more suppressed when an oxime based photopolymerization initiator was used as shown from the comparison of samples 1 1 1 3 and 1 4. In addition the width of the step region was more suppressed when a resin having a polymerizable group was used as shown from the comparison of Samples 1 1 and 1 5.

Samples 1 11 to 1 20 were prepared in a similar manner to sample 1 1 but by changing the content of photopolymerization initiator in the total solid content of photosensitive resin composition as shown in Table 2 below. Using the obtained samples 1 11 to 1 20 a light shielding color filter was formed in a similar same manner to Example 1 1 and evaluation was performed in a similar manner to Example 1 1. The evaluation results are shown in Table 2.

As shown in Table 2 when the content of photopolymerization initiator in the total solid content of the photosensitive resin composition was 3 to 20 mass the width of the step region was even more suppressed.

Samples 1 1 2 1 1 3 1 1 4 1 11 2 1 11 3 1 11 4 1 20 2 1 20 3 and 1 20 4 shown in Table 3 were prepared in a similar manner to the preparations of samples 1 1 1 11 and sample 1 20 respectively. In the preparation of each sample compounds K 2 K 3 and K 4 described below were used instead of compound K 1 as an oxime based photopolymerization initiator.

As shown in Table 3 a sample using the novel oxime based initiator K 4 achieved a narrow and favorable width of the step region.

The following composition was subjected to a dispersion treatment with a disperser bead mill ULTRA APEX MILL trade name manufactured by Kotobuki Industries Co. Ltd .

Samples 1 32 to 1 39 were prepared in a similar manner except that the photopolymerization initiator and resin were changed as shown in the following Table 4.

Light shielding color filters were prepared using the above obtained samples 1 31 to 1 39 in a similar manner to Example 1 1 and evaluation was conducted in a similar manner to Example 1 1. The results are shown in Table 4.

As shown in Table 4 each of the light shielding color filters prepared from Samples 1 31 to 1 39 had a suppressed width of step region.

The above explanation has been given with reference to the examples in which a specific compound is used as a black colorant a photopolymerizable compound a resin a photopolymerization initiator or a solvent. However even when other compounds are used in place of the above similar effects will be achieved as long as the light shielding color filter has a ratio of OD ODin a range of 0.5 or more and 3 or less.

In addition in the above examples the light shielding color filter was formed on a silicon wafer. However it is also within the scope of the invention to replace the silicon water with a substrate for a solid state image sensor on which light receiving elements such as photo diodes are formed and form a light shielding color filter on a side opposite to the surface on which the light receiving elements are formed backside in order to obtain a solid state image sensor having a reduced amount of noise and excellent color reproducibility.

In the following the weight average molecular weight was measured by gel permeation chromatography GPC . The GPC was performed using HLC 8120 GPC and SC 8020 manufactured by Tosoh Corporation TSK gels and Super HM H manufactured by Tosoh Corporation 6.0 mm ID 15 cm as the columns and THF tetrahydrofuran as an eluent. In addition the measurement was performed at a sample concentration of 0.5 mass flow rate of 0.6 ml min sample injection amount of 10 l and a temperature of 40 C. using an RI detector. In addition the calibration curve was prepared from 10 samples of the polystyrene standard samples TSK standard manufactured by Tosoh Corporation A 500 F 1 F 10 F 80 F 380 A 2500 F 4 F 40 F 128 and F 700 .

Further the acid value of the resin was measured by a method defined in Section 11.1 of JIS K 5407 1990 .

The following components were subjected to a high viscosity dispersion treatment with a pair of rollers to prepare a dispersion. The viscosity of the dispersion was 40000 mPa s.

In this process the dispersion may be subjected to kneading for 30 minutes with a kneader before the high viscosity dispersion treatment.

To the obtained dispersion 150 parts of propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate was added and the obtained mixture was subjected to a dispersion treatment with a dispersion machine DISPERMAT trade name manufactured by GETZMANN GMBH with use of 0.5 mm zirconia beads for 4 hours to produce a titanium black dispersion. The viscosity of the titanium black dispersion was 4.0 mPa S.

In a 300 ml four neck flask 44.2 g 0.425 mol of styrene 5.40 g 0.075 mol of acrylic acid and 50 g of propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate were put and stirred under nitrogen atmosphere at 80 C. A solution dissolving 0.3118 g 1.91 10mol of 2 2 azobisisobutylnitrile AIBN in 10 g of propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate was added to the mixture as a thermal polymerization initiator and the mixture was stirred for 6 hours. Subsequently the supply of nitrogen was stopped and a solution dissolving 0.22 g 1.5 10mol of p methoxyphenol in 15 g of propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate was added to the mixture. Then the mixture was stirred at an elevated temperature of 95 C. for 2 hours thereby obtaining an Exemplary Resin A 1 as resin A in the present exemplary embodiment . The acid value of the obtained Exemplary Resin A 1 was 70 mg KOH g and the weight average molecular weight was 8000.

Exemplary Resin B 1 was synthesized as resin B in the present exemplary embodiment in a similar manner to the synthesis of Exemplary Resin A 1 except that the amount of styrene was changed to 50.75 g 0.487 mol and the amount of acrylic acid was changed to 0.94 g 0.013 mol respectively. The acid value of the obtained Exemplary Resin B 1 was 15 mg KOH g and the weight average molecular weight was 9000.

Sample 2 2 to sample 2 25 were prepared as a photosensitive resin composition in a similar manner as in sample 2 1 except that the acid values of Exemplary Resin A 1 and Exemplary Resin B 1 were adjusted to the values as shown in Table 4 by changing the amount of styrene and acrylic acid in the preparation of sample 2 1. Further the weight average molecular weight of Exemplary Resin A 1 and the weight average molecular weight of Exemplary Resin B 1 in samples 2 2 to 2 25 were equal to those of sample 2 1 respectively.

The obtained photosensitive resin compositions sample 2 1 to sample 2 25 were left to stand at 4 C. for 6 months and then the viscosity of the photosensitive resin compositions was measured unit Pa s . The viscosity was compared with the viscosity unit Pa s that had been measured immediately after the preparation of the photosensitive resin composition within 1 hour after the mixing of the total components temperature 23 C. .

The measurement of viscosity was performed using an E type viscometer manufactured by TOKI SANGYO CO. LTD. .

The temporal stability of the photosensitive resin composition was evaluated by calculating a change rate in viscosity with time by the following expression. The closer the change rate in viscosity is to 0 the more favorable the temporal stability of photosensitive resin composition is. Evaluation results are shown in Table 5. Change rate in viscosity with time viscosity viscosity viscosity 100

In the above expression viscosity A represents a viscosity after being left for 6 months at 4 C. and viscosity B represents a viscosity measured immediately after the preparation.

The photosensitive resin composition obtained above was applied onto a silicon wafer by a spin coating method and then heated on a hot plate at 120 C. for 2 minutes thereby preparing a photosensitive layer.

Then the obtained photosensitive layer was exposed to light using an i line stepper at an exposure amount of 500 mJ cmthrough a photo mask having a linear pattern aperture pattern of 3 m width.

Following the exposure the photosensitive layer was subjected to paddle development using 0.3 aqueous solution of tetramethylammonium hydroxide at 23 C. for 60 seconds. Thereafter the photosensitive layer was rinsed with a spin shower and further washed with pure water thereby producing a light shielding color filter.

The obtained light shielding color filter was observed with an optical microscope 1000 fold magnification and the state of development residue and pattern adhesion were evaluated on the basis of the following standards.

As shown in Table 5 the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment including resin A having an acid value of 70 mg KOH g or more and 250 mg KOH g or less and resin B having an acid value of 26 mg KOH g or more and 65 mg KOH g or less exhibited a small change rate in viscosity with time excellent temporal stability and a suppressed amount of development residue. Further the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment also exhibited excellent pattern adhesion.

Exemplary Resin A 2 shown below was synthesized as resin A in a similar manner to the synthesis of Exemplary Resin A 1 except that the copolymerization components were changed from styrene and acrylic acid to benzylmethacrylate isobutylmethacrylate methacrylate and BLEMMER PME400 trade name manufactured by NOF CORPORATION.

The acid value of obtained Exemplary Resin A 2 was 106 mg KOH g and the weight average molecular weight was 10 000.

Exemplary Resin A 3 below was synthesized as resin A in a similar manner to the synthesis of Exemplary Resin A 1 except that the copolymerization components were changed from styrene and acrylic acid to benzylmethacrylate and methacrylate.

The acid value of obtained Exemplary Resin A 3 was 110 mg KOH g and the weight average molecular weight was 30000.

Exemplary Resin A 4 below was synthesized as resin A in a similar manner to the synthesis of Exemplary Resin A 1 except that the copolymerization components were changed from styrene and acrylic acid to benzylmethacrylate 2 hydroxyethylmethacrylate methacrylate and BLEMMER PME400 trade name manufactured by NOF CORPORATION.

The acid value of obtained Exemplary Resin A 4 was 120 mg KOH g and the weight average molecular weight was 9 000.

Exemplary resin B 2 below was synthesized as resin B in a similar manner to the synthesis of Exemplary Resin A 1 except that the copolymerization components were changed from styrene and acrylic acid to methylmethacrylate methacrylic acid and 2 hydroxy 4 acryloyloxymethyl cyclohexylmethacrylate.

The acid value of obtained Exemplary Resin B 2 was 37 mg KOH g and the weight average molecular weight was 14 000.

Exemplary Resin B 3 below was synthesized as resin B in a similar manner to the synthesis of Exemplary Resin A 1 except that the copolymerization components were changed from styrene and acrylic acid to benzylmethacrylate 2 hydroxyethylmethacrylate and methacrylic acid.

The acid value of obtained Exemplary Resin B 3 was 30 mg KOH g and the weight average molecular weight was 14 000.

The following components were mixed to prepare a dispersion of titanium black titanium black dispersion . The viscosity of the obtained titanium black dispersion was 3.0 mPa S.

Each of the photosensitive resin compositions Sample 2 27 to Sample 2 37 was produced in a similar manner to the preparation of sample 2 26 except that Exemplary Resin A 2 used in the preparation of titanium black dispersion and Exemplary Resin B 2 used in the preparation of photosensitive resin composition were respectively changed to those shown in Table 6 below in the preparation of Sample 2 26.

The change rate in viscosity of the photosensitive resin compositions obtained above Sample 2 26 to Sample 2 37 was calculated in a similar manner as in Example 2 1 and temporal stability of the photosensitive resin composition was evaluated. The evaluation results are shown in Table 6.

Using the photosensitive resin compositions obtained above sample 2 26 to sample 2 37 a light shielding color filter was prepared in a similar manner to Example 2 1 and the development residue was determined in a similar manner to Examples 2 1. The evaluation results are shown in Table 6.

As shown in Table 6 the photosensitive resin composition of the present exemplary embodiment containing resin A having an acid value of 70 mg KOH g or more and 250 mg KOH g or less and resin B having an acid value of 26 mg KOH g or more and 65 mg KOH g or less exhibited a small change in viscosity with time excellent storage stability and a suppressed amount of development residue even when the type of the resin is different.

The above explanation has been given with reference to the examples in which a specific compound is used as titanium black a photopolymerizable compound resin A resin B photopolymerization initiator or a solvent. However similar effects will be achieved even when other compounds are used in place of the above as long as the requirements of present exemplary embodiment are satisfied.

In addition in the above examples the light shielding color filter was formed on a silicon wafer. However it is also within the scope of the invention to replace the silicon water with a substrate for a solid state image sensor on which light receiving elements such as photo diodes are formed and form a light shielding color filter on a side opposite to the surface on which the light receiving elements are formed backside in order to obtain a solid state image sensor having a reduced amount of noise and excellent color reproducibility.

All publications patent applications and technical standards mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent application or technical standard was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

