---

title: Protocol data unit interface
abstract: An interface can be designed that efficiently constructs descriptors for streams of protocol data units (PDUs) and provides coherent views of the PDUs and the PDU stream for a requesting application regardless of location within a buffer pool for PDUs. The interface creates a descriptor for each PDU written into the buffer pool and links the descriptors in accordance with the appropriate order of the corresponding PDUs. The interface can create PDU descriptors hierarchically. For instance, a PDU descriptor for a PDU of a layer N protocol can refer to one or more PDU descriptors of a layer N−1 protocol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398117&OS=09398117&RS=09398117
owner: NetApp, Inc.
number: 09398117
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131024
---
Embodiments of the inventive subject matter generally relate to the field of data processing and more particularly to protocol data unit assembly.

Communications between computers over a network are facilitated by components that include a combination of software firmware and or hardware commonly referred to as a network stack or protocol stack . The components of the network stack are layered and designed to facilitate the communications according to the function of each particular layer. For example the components at the network layer determine how to send data from one computer to another over the network. The components at the application layer however may only represent data and commands that are specific to an actual software application such as a web browser or e mail application. Thus the network layer may add when sending or remove when receiving data specific to communicating the data from one computer to another. The components at the application layer however may have no knowledge of the data used by the network layer. Each layer operates on a unit of data that conforms to a protocol implemented at the given layer. Although the protocol at each layer may refer to the data unit by a particular moniker e.g. packet frame message etc. this unit of data is generally referred to as a protocol data unit PDU .

For example consider a network stack that consists of an application layer a network layer and a physical layer. Two computers are connected via a network and both implement compatible network stacks. A file transfer application on an originating computer of the two computers can create an application message . The application message is designed to be received by a compatible file transfer application on the other computer the receiving computer . The application message might indicate that the file transfer application on the originating computer is attempting to transfer a file to the file transfer application on the receiving computer. The application message might also include the data associated with the file being transferred. The application message can consist of a header which typically contains data about the message such as a command and a payload which contains the actual data associated with the message such as the file data .

Once the application message is created the file transfer application passes the application message to the network layer. Components at the network layer communicate using packets. The format of a packet may be different than that of an application message and thus the networking layer components might convert the application message into one or more packets. For example packets may be a fixed size that is smaller than the application message. Thus the networking layer components might break the application message into multiple packets. Similarly the packets may be a fixed size greater than the size of the application message. Thus the networking layer components might put multiple application messages into a single message. Further the networking layer components might add additional data to the packet such as network addresses associated with the two computers. Similar to an application message a packet comprises a header and a payload. The header contains data about the packet while the payload can contain the application message including the application message header or a subset thereof.

The originating computer s network layer components pass the packet s to the physical layer of the originating computer. The physical layer components format packets from the network layer into frames in accordance with the physical layer protocol and transmit the frames with the physical characteristics as defined by the physical layer protocol. The physical layer components of a computer can include a network interface card and a network interface card driver. The network interface card transmits the frames as signals to a network interface card on the receiving computer. The receiving computer s physical layer components process received signals into frames extract payloads from the frame and supply the payloads to the receiving computer s network layer components. The receiving computer s network layer components process the payloads from the physical layer as network layer packets decapsulate payloads from the network layer packets and provide the payloads to the application layer at the receiving computer. The receiving computer s application layer components then reassemble the application message from the payloads provided from the network layer.

When protocol data units are received by a computer the protocol data units are stored in buffers. Protocol data units for multiple data streams may be received over a given time period resulting in protocol data units associated with the same data stream being stored in noncontiguous buffers. Data structures that reference the various protocol data units can be created to provide a coherent view of protocol data units that are related even if the protocol data units are stored in noncontiguous buffers. An interface creates a descriptor data structure for each protocol data unit and links the descriptor data structures for each related protocol data unit in the proper order. When protocols are layered on top of each other the interface can create hierarchical levels of descriptor data structures in which the higher level descriptor data structures reference the lower level descriptor data structures. Thus applications associated with the protocol data units can access the protocol data units without the protocol data units being copied into contiguous locations of memory.

The description that follows includes example systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computer program products that embody techniques of the inventive subject matter. However it is understood that the described embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For instance although examples refer to a subset of possible protocol data units the inventive subject matter can apply to other protocol data units not explicitly discussed. In other instances well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obfuscate the description. For example the descriptions of network stacks are simplified. While network stacks can comprise many layers the network stacks described herein generally only refer to two or three layers. Further the layers described are general examples as the specific layers of any particular implementation can vary.

The descriptions herein refer to protocol data units PDUs . A PDU is a unit of data as defined by a particular protocol. The moniker for PDU can vary with the governing protocol. For example the Ethernet protocol refers to PDUs as frames the TCP IP protocols refer to PDUs as packets and the Network File System protocol refers to PDUs as messages. Regardless of the various monikers a PDU generally includes a header and a payload. For some protocols the PDU will also include a trailer.

The descriptions herein also refer to PDU descriptors. A descriptor is a data structure that indicates information about data. A PDU descriptor indicates information about a PDU. For example a PDU descriptor can indicate a location of a PDU and control information from the PDU e.g. sequence number port number PDU size etc. .

After a receiving computer s physical layer components process a received signal and extract payloads from the physical layer PDUs those payloads are stored into memory locations accessible by components of at least the next highest layer protocol. The extracted payloads may comprise PDUs of at least the next highest layer protocol. The aggregate of the memory locations is referred to herein as a buffer pool and each memory location can be considered an individual buffer. The physical layer components may be receiving data streams for multiple applications over the same time period. The extracted payloads may be stored in the buffer pool in the order that they are received thus potentially resulting in related packets being stored in noncontiguous memory locations within the buffer pool. Further the extracted payloads may be of a different size than the buffers resulting in gaps created by unused space within the buffer. The extracted payloads may also include header data. Thus even if the extracted payloads are written into contiguous memory locations and fill the entire buffer the header data may result in gaps between the actual data used by applications. Because many applications expect the data to be stored contiguously the payloads and or PDUs are copied to contiguous memory locations prior to use by the associated application. This copying introduces computing overhead thus reducing the potential performance of applications that analyze the payloads and or PDUs.

In addition the typical layout of computer memory or more specifically virtual memory also results in the copying of data regardless of whether data for an application is split between multiple PDUs. Computer memory is typically divided into kernel space and user space . Kernel space is restricted such that only a subset of the software running on a computer can access kernel space. Generally applications that exist as part of the network stack s application layer can only access user space while the components of lower level layers of the network stack such as the network layer and transport layer can access kernel space. Thus to provide an application access to an application message the data representing the application message is copied from the kernel space to the user space even if it is not split among multiple PDUs received out of order etc.

While it may be possible for an application to access kernel space data through mechanisms such as system calls those mechanisms may still result in significant overhead. The associated overhead whether from copying data in memory or using mechanisms that allow access to kernel data can reduce the performance of applications in the application layer.

For example deep packet inspection describes techniques for analyzing the payload of packets transmitted over a network. Unlike firewall functionality which typically analyzes only information in the header of a packet deep packet inspection may scan some or the entirety of the actual payload in addition to analyzing the header information. Thus while firewall functionality can be used to determine whether a packet should pass through the firewall based on a limited subset of data deep packet inspection can analyze the entirety of the packet to search for restricted content such as viruses detect a network intrusion event etc. The additional processing performed and thus overhead created in deep packet inspection can limit the rate at which packets can be analyzed by a deep packet inspection application. The limited rate of analysis thus may result in some packets not being analyzed or result in delayed processing of the packets thus decreasing security.

Even if the overhead associated with the processing of PDUs by the network stack does not limit the performance of an application in the application layer reducing overhead can benefit a computer in general. For example copying data from one memory location to another as done when copying data from kernel space to user space uses power which can reduce battery life of a portable computer. Relatedly copying data can further consume processor time either consuming more power or delaying the completion of other tasks.

However an interface can be designed that efficiently constructs descriptors for streams of PDUs and provides coherent views of the PDUs for a requesting application without copying PDUs from the buffer pool. The interface PDU stream interface creates a descriptor for each PDU written into the buffer pool and links the descriptors in accordance with the appropriate order of the corresponding PDUs. The PDU stream interface can create PDU descriptors hierarchically. For instance a PDU descriptor for a PDU of a layer N protocol can refer to one or more PDU descriptors of a layer N 1 protocol. The PDU stream interface provides an abstracted consistent interface to the data i.e. PDUs and or payloads of PDUs while allowing an associated application to bypass the operating system and without copying the data out of the buffer pool.

At stage A the NIC receives data stream over a network . Generally the NIC is connected to the network using one or more interconnects such as physical cables wireless signals etc. For example the NIC can communicate with other devices on the network over an Ethernet cable a Fibre Channel cable a Wi Fi connection etc. The data stream can be sent according to a specific protocol that defines how the data stream is encoded including error correction data how multiple data streams are handled etc.

At stage B the NIC processes the received data stream into packets and writes the packets into the buffer pool . A packet may be a defined length such as sixty four bytes. Thus when the NIC receives the defined number of bits sixty four bytes worth in the previous example the NIC has received a single packet.

To write one of the packets to the buffer pool the NIC can put the address of the particular buffer on a memory bus not depicted along with or followed by the data representing the particular packet. The process is repeated for the additional packets . While not necessarily received or written in order the packets do have a particular order. For example each packet may include a packet sequence number that indicates in what sequence the packets are to be processed. Thus for example if an application message is split among multiple packets it is possible to determine which order the packets associated with the application message should be arranged in thus allowing the recreation of the application message .

The actual data written to the buffer pool can vary between implementations. In some implementations the NIC may remove some information from the packets prior to writing the packets to the buffer pool . For example a portion of each packet received by the NIC may only be needed by the NIC and thus may be removed from each packet prior to writing the packets to the buffer pool . Other data can be removed from the packets prior to writing the packets to the buffer pool by other components associated with the NIC and network stack. In some implementations the packets are written to the buffer pool without any data removed from the packets .

The actual component responsible for writing the packets to the buffer pool may be a component associated with the NIC as opposed to the NIC itself. For example while firmware on the NIC may write the packets to the buffer pool a software driver existing as part of an operating system may also write the packets to the buffer pool . Further any component that can communicate with the NIC can write the packets to the buffer pool.

At stage C the PDU stream interface receives an indication that the packets have been written to the buffer pool . In some implementations the PDU stream interface polls a component responsible for managing the buffer pool to determine that the packets have been written to the buffer pool . The component responsible for managing the buffer pool can be the NIC the PDU stream interface another component within the system or a combination thereof. The component responsible for managing the buffer pool may have access to indications of which buffers of the buffer pool are empty or invalid such as a free list . When the NIC writes one of the packets into the buffer pool the buffer that the packet is written to can be removed from the free list thus indicating that the buffer contains a valid packet. The PDU stream interface can determine if the free list or any corresponding structure that indicates which buffers have valid packets has changed since the previous poll to determine that the packets have been written into the buffer pool . For example at step C the PDU stream interface can poll the component responsible for managing the buffer pool and the responsible component can return a value indicating whether any data was written to the buffer pool since the previous poll. The PDU stream interface may also have access to the free list thus being able to determine if the free list has changed itself. The implementation of the component s that manages the buffer pool can vary and the implementations of the NIC PDU stream interface and other components of the system can vary accordingly.

In some implementations the PDU stream interface is notified when one or more packets are written to the buffer pool . For example the PDU stream interface can register an event or interrupt handler with the system . When the NIC writes one of the packets into the buffer pool the NIC or memory subsystem associated component etc. notifies the PDU stream interface . Thus the PDU stream interface does not poll the buffer pool for information but receives notifications of changes to the buffer pool . Notification s can include the address es associated with the buffer s that have been written to.

At stage D the PDU stream interface creates packet descriptors for the packets written to the buffer pool . In the packets include a packet A a packet B a packet C and a packet D. Accordingly the packet descriptors include a packet descriptor A a packet descriptor B a packet descriptor C and a packet descriptor D. The packet descriptor A includes a reference to the buffer that contains packet A the packet descriptor B includes a reference to the buffer that contains packet B the packet descriptor C includes a reference to the buffer that contains packet C and the packet descriptor D includes a reference to the buffer that contains packet D. Each packet descriptor also includes a reference to the packet descriptor associated with the next packet in the sequence of packets. For example when the PDU stream interface receives an indication that packet A has been written to the buffer pool the PDU stream interface creates packet descriptor A and includes a link to the particular buffer associated with packet A. When the PDU stream interface receives an indication that packet B has been written to the buffer pool the PDU stream interface creates packet descriptor B and includes a reference to the particular buffer associated with the packet B. The reference to the particular buffer included in a packet descriptor can be the memory address of the particular buffer or other value that allows the PDU stream interface to access the referenced packet. Further the PDU stream interface determines that packet A precedes packet B and thus stores a reference to packet descriptor B in packet descriptor A. By using the references to sequentially link the packet descriptors the PDU stream interface can traverse the packets in sequence regardless of where the packets actually reside.

Other information about the packets can be included in the packet descriptors as well. For example information from the headers of the packets can be stored in the associated packet descriptors . Similarly the PDU stream interface can include data from the packet payloads. Including data from the packets in the packet descriptors can provide the PDU stream interface with easier and potentially quicker access to commonly accessed data as well as allowing the PDU stream interface to store the data in a format more conducive to use by the PDU stream interface . The data included in the packet descriptors can include packet identifiers such as the packet sequence number port identifiers channel identifiers source address fragmenting information packet length packet header length etc.

Not all of the packets are necessarily associated with applications that use the PDU stream interface . In other words in some implementations the PDU stream interface filters PDUs for descriptor construction. The PDU stream interface can filter based on various control information from PDU headers e.g. port number fragment identifier etc. . In this illustration the PDU stream interface could create packet descriptors for only a subset of the packets . Thus in some implementations the PDU stream interface analyzes each packet to determine whether a packet descriptor should be created for the particular packet before creating the packet descriptor. In some implementations the PDU stream interface creates a packet descriptor for a particular packet first and then analyzes the data associated with the packet to determine whether the packet descriptor should be deleted or otherwise disposed of. If the PDU stream interface determines that the particular packet should not have a packet descriptor the packet descriptor can be deleted or otherwise disposed of.

Various techniques can be used for filtering by the PDU stream interface . For example network communications with the application may be associated with a particular network port or set of ports. The application can then indicate to the PDU stream interface which ports are associated with the application . The PDU stream interface can then determine which port s the packets are associated with and only create maintain packet descriptors for the packets associated with the port s specified by the application . The data indicating which port the packets are associated with can be included in the respective packet descriptor. The PDU stream interface can use any of the data available to determine which of the packets the PDU stream interface should create packet descriptors for or which packet descriptors should be filtered.

At stage E the application requests data using an API associated with the PDU stream interface . The API and thus the PDU stream interface can be implemented to allow varying levels of data abstraction. For example in some implementations the PDU stream interface can be implemented such that the application can specify individual bytes or a range of bytes within one or more of the packets . Thus the PDU stream interface can allow access to the packets directly i.e. a low level view of the packets . In some implementations the PDU stream interface can abstract the data contained in the packets such that the PDU stream interface provides access to the packet data based on associated application messages. For example instead of specifying which bytes of data the application wants the application can specify that data relating to a particular application message is wanted. In some implementations the API can be implemented to allow both access to the packets as well as abstracting the packets to represent application messages or other constructs . Further the PDU stream interface can further abstract the data contained in the packets . For example the payloads of a set of application messages derived from the packets can contain data for a higher level application message. The PDU stream interface can thus continue creating higher level PDU descriptors as appropriate.

When the application specifies the particular bytes of data the application wants the packet descriptors are typically sufficient for accessing the data. In other words the PDU stream interface can access the individual bytes of the packets using the packet descriptors because each packet descriptor includes a reference to the data representing the associated packet. Thus a low level view of the packet data can be sufficient for use by some applications.

The application can specify the requested data at a higher level of abstraction in a variety of ways. For example the application might request data associated with the next application message in a stream of application messages or a particular application message. The application might request data associated with a specific application message indicated by a particular identification value associated with the application message. The application might request application messages based on other data associated with an application message such as requesting all application messages associated with a specific command or specific stream of application messages.

The API can be implemented in a variety of ways. For example the API can be implemented using system calls. In an implementation utilizing system calls the application makes a system call indicating the requested data which is passed to the PDU stream interface . However as discussed above implementations that rely on system calls can result in more overhead than bypassing the operating system. Thus the API can be implemented without using system calls facilitated by the fact that applications that can write to restricted memory such as the memory designated as kernel space can read and write to non restricted memory. For example a specific area of non restricted memory such as the memory designated as user space can be indicated for communications with the PDU stream interface . The application can write requests for the PDU stream interface into the memory locations indicated for communications with the PDU stream interface . The PDU stream interface can then read the requests from the memory locations.

Further the application can be an application that can communicate with the PDU stream interface directly. For example both the PDU stream interface and the application can operate as kernel processes within an operating system thus allowing direct communication between the processes. Further other techniques for communication may be utilized that do not involve writing to memory.

At stage F the PDU stream interface creates the message descriptor in response to receiving a request for data associated with an application message from the application . The message descriptor represents packets at a higher level of abstraction. For example as discussed above the API can allow the application to request data for particular application messages instead of specifying specific bytes of packet data. The PDU stream interface can create the message descriptor to identify which packet s correspond to a particular application message.

To create the message descriptor the PDU stream interface searches the data associated with the packets for indications of an application message. The PDU stream interface can search the data associated with the packets by iterating through the packet descriptors . For each packet descriptor of the packet descriptors the PDU stream interface reads the data from the particular buffer referenced by the particular packet descriptor. The PDU stream interface then searches the packets for an indication of an application message including searching the packet payload.

An application message indication can vary between implementations. Generally however an application message indication will be a particular set of bits that are defined as the start of an application message. For example a definition of an application message may specify that an application message begins with a specific series of symbols that are unlikely to occur in other portions of the application message. Thus when the PDU stream interface finds the bit representation of the specified series of symbols the PDU stream interface determines that an application message begins there. Other techniques to represent the start of an application message can be used such as encoding the application message data using a tree or another structure.

Once the PDU stream interface locates the beginning of an application message the PDU stream interface can store the data specifying the location of the application message in the message descriptor . For example the message descriptor can include a reference to the packet descriptor associated with the packet that includes the beginning of the application message. The message descriptor can also include the particular byte of the packet or an offset associated with the beginning of the application message. The PDU stream interface can also store additional data related to the application message in the message descriptor including data contained within the application message header such as a command associated with the application message and metadata about the application message itself.

The PDU stream interface further determines the location of the end of the application message. The technique used to specify the end of the application message can vary between implementations. For example the end of the application message can be specified by a particular sequence of bits similar to the beginning of the application message may implicitly be specified by the beginning of another application message be specified by indicating the length of the application message etc.

Determining the location of the end of the application message can vary between implementations as well. For example the PDU stream interface can continue searching the data associated with the packet containing the beginning of the application message. If a sequence of bits indicating the end of the application message or the beginning of another application message is found the PDU stream interface has determined the end of the application message. If no indication of the end of the application message is found the PDU stream interface can continue to the next packet by using the reference to the next packet descriptor to traverse the chain of packet descriptors as described above. The PDU stream interface can continue searching the packet data traversing the chain of packet descriptors until the end of the application message is found.

Additionally application messages can be defined to be a fixed length or can specify their length. For example the application message header may indicate the length of the application message or any variable sized portions of the application message thus allowing the length of the application message to be computed. If the PDU stream interface can determine the length of the application message the PDU stream interface can skip to the packet descriptor that references the final packet containing the application message instead of searching the packet data. In other words because the PDU stream interface knows the length of each packet and the length of the application message the PDU stream interface can determine which packet descriptor is associated with the end of the application message. Once the particular packet descriptor is determined the PDU stream interface can traverse the packet descriptors until reaching the packet descriptor associated with the end of the application message without searching the packet data. For example assume each packet contains eight kilobytes of payload and the PDU stream interface determines that an application message is 64 kilobytes in length. If the application message starts at the 4096 byte of the payload portion of a first packet the last byte of the application message is the 4095 byte of the payload portion of the eighth packet after the initial packet. The PDU stream interface can also take into account the header size of the packets and whether the packets are fixed or variable length.

Once the PDU stream interface determines the location of the end of the application message the PDU stream interface can store a reference to the packet descriptor associated with the end of the application message in the message descriptor along with the specific byte associated with the end of the application message. The PDU stream interface can also store references to any intermediate packet descriptors that contain data related to the application message. However because the packet descriptors are linked to each other the PDU stream interface can traverse the references contained in the packet descriptors until reaching the packet descriptor that is indicated as including the end of the application message. Thus message descriptor can specify the set of packet descriptors associated with the application message by only specifying the first and last packet descriptor. However storing references to intermediate packet descriptors can be used to facilitate random access to the data within the application message. For example the API may allow the application to request a subset of the data associated with the application message. Thus instead of traversing each packet descriptor associated with the application message until reaching the specified data the PDU stream interface can utilize a reference to an intermediate packet descriptor to go directly to the data requested.

Consider the example depicted in . The PDU stream interface has received a request for a particular application message. The PDU stream interface reads the packet referenced by packet descriptor A. The PDU stream interface determines that the application message begins in packet A using one of the techniques described herein or other technique for determining where an application message begins . The PDU stream interface creates the message descriptor and stores a reference to packet descriptor A therein. The PDU stream interface can also store an indication of which byte of packet A or the payload of packet A the application message begins at.

The PDU stream interface further determines that the application message comprises two additional packets or one additional packet and part of a second additional packet based on data such as a length value included in the application message or a predetermined length value. Thus the PDU stream interface traverses to the next packet descriptor in the chain of packet descriptors by resolving the reference stored in packet descriptor A. The reference stored in packet descriptor A refers to packet descriptor B. The PDU stream interface can optionally store a reference to packet descriptor B in the message descriptor . The PDU stream interface traverses to the next packet descriptor in the chain of packet descriptors by resolving the reference stored in packet descriptor B. The reference stored in packet descriptor B refers to packet descriptor C. Because the PDU stream interface determined that the application message ends two packets after packet A the PDU stream interface stores a reference to packet descriptor C in the message descriptor as the packet descriptor that refers to the final packet packet C that comprises part of the application message. The PDU stream interface can also store an indication of which byte of packet C or the payload of packet C the application message ends at. Thus the PDU stream interface has delineated the location of the data associated with the application message within the packets .

For application messages that do not span multiple packets the PDU stream interface can store a reference to the sole packet as the beginning and ending packet along with an indication of which bytes of the packet the application message begins and ends at. Thus the PDU stream interface can include multiple message descriptors that reference the same packet.

The examples above describe the message descriptor as being created in response to receiving a request from the application or on demand . However the PDU stream interface can create message descriptors for each application message that is represented by the packets even without receiving a request from the application .

At stage G the PDU stream interface returns the requested data to the application . The technique used to return the requested data to the application can vary between implementations. For example in some implementations the requested data can be returned by writing it into a specified area of memory. The area of memory can be specified by the PDU stream interface the application or another component. In some implementations the requested data can be returned by using other communication techniques such as inter process communications.

In some implementations the requested data is not returned directly but a reference to the requested data is returned. For example if the application can access the restricted memory in which the buffers are stored the PDU stream interface can return one or more message descriptors and or one or more packet descriptors . The application can utilize the message descriptors and or packet descriptors to access the particular buffers referenced therein. Further the PDU stream interface may return references to the actual message descriptors and packet descriptors . Thus the application can access the data within the message descriptors and packet descriptors without duplicating the data of the message descriptors or packet descriptors .

It should be noted that while in some implementations packet data might be copied in memory the copying would be done when requested by the application . Typically before an application can determine data such as a command associated with an application message the associated packets are copied within memory. Thus applications cannot determine the relevance of the particular application message until the data is copied. However utilizing a PDU stream interface allows for the determination of the relevance of the particular application message prior to any copying thus permitting a reduction in the amount of data that is copied.

At block it is determined that a PDU has been written into a buffer pool. As mentioned earlier implementations can vary for detecting that a PDU is written into a buffer pool. The implementations can be poll based. For example an executing instance of program code e.g. a process or agent periodically reads a memory location for a flag indicating completion of a write operation to the buffer pool. As another example the process or agent periodically reads a memory location for a memory address corresponding to a buffer in the buffer pool. The process or agent may analyze metadata about the buffer pool to determine whether there is an indication that the first packet data has been written to the buffer pool. For example the process or agent can read and store a list specifying which buffers in the buffer pool are free hereinafter referred to as a free list . The PDU stream interface can then read the free list at a later point and compare the newly read free list with the stored free list to determine whether any previously free buffers are now being used. An implementation can also be interrupt driven. For example a NIC driver can generate an interrupt when a PDU is written into the buffer pool with buffer location in the interrupt message. After it is determined that the PDU has been written into a buffer pool control then flows to block .

At block a PDU descriptor is created. The PDU descriptor can take any one of a variety forms that accommodate the information to be extracted from the PDUs such as an array a struct a class object etc. The information to be extracted can at least include any one of size of PDU header offset to payload control information from a PDU header and data from the payload. After the PDU descriptor is created control then flows to block .

At block the created PDU descriptor is populated with information from the PDU and with the location of the PDU in the buffer pool. For instance program code implementing a PDU stream interface writes a buffer address into the PDU descriptor a packet sequence number offset to payload and other metadata relating to the PDU. After the created PDU descriptor is populated with information from the PDU and with the location of the PDU in the buffer pool control then flows to block .

At block it is determined whether the PDU descriptor list is empty. If other PDU descriptors have already been created control then flows to block . If the PDU descriptor list is empty control then flows to block .

At block the created PDU descriptor is inserted as the head of the PDU descriptor list. After the created PDU descriptor is inserted as the head of the PDU descriptor list the process ends.

If the PDU descriptor list was not empty at block then it is determined at block whether the PDU referenced by the PDU descriptor at the tail of the descriptor list precedes the PDU corresponding to the newly created PDU descriptor. In some cases a protocol data unit may be received out of order. Thus the PDU stream interface constructs the PDU descriptor list in a manner that conforms to sequence of PDUs as sent or intended to be received instead of as actually received. For example the PDU stream interface can compare sequence numbers or timestamps related to the particular PDU in order to establish the proper sequence of PDUs. If the PDU referenced by the tail PDU descriptor does not precede the PDU of the newly created PDU descriptor control then flows to block . Otherwise control then flows to block .

At block the created PDU descriptor is inserted into the PDU descriptor list as the tail. The PDU descriptor can be inserted into the PDU list as the tail by writing a reference to the PDU descriptor into the tail PDU descriptor. Once a reference to the PDU descriptor is written into the tail PDU descriptor the PDU descriptor becomes the new tail. After the PDU descriptor is inserted into the PDU descriptor list as the tail the process ends.

At block the PDU descriptor list is traversed to determine an insertion point for the created PDU descriptor and the created PDU descriptor is inserted at the insertion point. The insertion point can be determined by comparing the PDU sequence number or timestamp in the current PDU descriptor with the PDU sequence numbers in the PDU descriptors of the PDU descriptor list. If the created PDU descriptor s PDU sequence number falls between the sequence number of two sequential PDU descriptors in the list the created PDU descriptor is inserted between the two sequential PDU descriptors. To insert the created PDU descriptor a reference to the created PDU descriptor is written into the first of the two sequential PDU descriptors replacing a reference to the second of the two sequential PDU descriptors . A reference to the second of the two sequential PDU descriptors is also written into the created PDU descriptor. After the created PDU descriptor is inserted at the insertion point the process ends.

The initial PDU descriptor list provides direct access to the PDUs written into the buffer pool and provides a base upon which other PDU descriptor lists can be constructed. A descriptor list for application protocol PDUs can be built directly upon the base PDU descriptor list as depicted in . In some embodiments other additional levels of PDU descriptors lists can be constructed. As mentioned earlier multiple application protocols can be stacked atop each other. Or PDU descriptor lists may be constructed for other layers of a network stack implemented on communicating devices. For example the base layer PDU descriptor list can correspond to the network layer. Another PDU descriptor list for session layer protocol PDUs can be constructed that references the network layer protocol PDU descriptor list. An application layer protocol PDU descriptor list can be constructed that references the session layer protocol PDU descriptor list. In some cases the PDU stream interface is configured or programmed to construct additional protocol PDU descriptor lists e.g. PDU descriptor lists for other lower layer protocols or default application protocols . In some cases the PDU stream interface constructs additional protocol PDU descriptor lists when requested.

At block an indication to create descriptors for a specified protocol is detected. For example the descriptors for the specified protocol can be created when a PDU stream interface determines that a message is present in the payload of a packet. In other words when a PDU descriptor for an underlying layer is created the PDU stream interface can analyze the payload of the associated packet. The presence of a message in the payload of the packet can serve as an indication to create descriptors for the specified protocol. The indication to create descriptors for a specified protocol can also be received from another component such as an application. For example the application can request data associated with a particular message. Similarly the process depicted in can indicate that descriptors for the underlying protocol should be created as described below. After the indication to create descriptors for the specified protocol is detected control then flows to block .

At block it is determined whether a descriptor list for the underlying protocol has been created. If the descriptor list for the underlying protocol has not been created then control flows to block . If the descriptor list for the underlying protocol has been created control then flows to block .

At block the descriptor creation process depicted in is invoked and the underlying protocol specified. In some cases an indication to create descriptors for the specified protocol is detected at block before the descriptors for the underlying protocol are created. Thus it is indicated that the descriptors for the underlying protocol should be created resulting in a recursive application of the operations depicted in . The underlying protocol can be specified dynamically or can be hard coded into program code that performs the operations at block . After the descriptor creation process is invoked control then flows back to block .

If it was determined at block that the descriptor list for the underlying protocol has been created control flowed to block . At block characteristics used to identify messages in packets are determined. For example the beginning of a message might be indicated by a particular sequence of bits a particular delimiter etc. After characteristics used to identify messages in packets are determined control then flows to block .

At block the head of the underlying protocol PDU descriptor list is selected and control then flows to block .

At block the payload of the PDU referenced by the selected PDU descriptor is determined. For example the PDU descriptor may contain a reference to the buffer in which the packet is stored. The buffer reference typically points to the first memory address containing the packet. To determine the payload the memory address can be incremented by the size of the packet header thus resulting in a memory address that references the beginning of the payload. After the payload of the packet referenced by the selected PDU descriptor is determined control then flows to block .

At block it is determined whether the payload comprises at least part of a PDU of the specified protocol. Whether the payload comprises part of a specified protocol PDU for instance a message can be determined by analyzing the payload for the characteristics determined at block . For example the payload can be searched for a particular sequence of bits or a delimiter that defines the beginning of a message. Further a determination that the payload comprises at least part of a message can be made based on determinations made for previous messages. For example the specified protocol definition can state that messages begin immediately after a preceding message. In such a case if it was previously determined that the payload contains the end of a message it can be determined that the payload contains the beginning of the next message. If it is determined that the payload comprises at least part of a PDU of the specified protocol control then flows to block . If it is determined that the payload does not comprise at least part of a PDU of the specified protocol control then flows to block .

At block a PDU descriptor is created for the specified protocol PDU or at least part of the specified protocol PDU located in the payload. As described above the PDU descriptor can take any one of a variety forms that accommodate the information to be extracted from the PDUs such as an array a struct a class object etc. After the PDU descriptor is created control then flows to block .

At block information is extracted from the payload. The created PDU descriptor is populated with the extracted information and with a reference to the PDU descriptor associated with the underlying protocol PDU. For instance program code implementing a PDU stream interface writes a reference to the packet PDU descriptor a message sequence number offset to the packet payload and other metadata relating to the message. After the information is extracted from the payload and populated into the PDU descriptor control then flows to block .

At block it is determined whether the payload contains the end of the specified protocol PDU. The characteristics of the specified protocol PDU for instance message characteristics determined at block can be used to determine whether the payload contains the end of the message. For example the end of the message can be indicated by a particular sequence of bits or a particular delimiter similar to the beginning of the message. The end of the message can also be determined implicitly based on a determination that the beginning of another message is located in the payload. Further the message itself can specify the length of the message in the header for example or the protocol can define the message length s . In cases in which the length of the message is known whether the payload contains the end of the message can be determined by comparing the length of the message with the size of the payload. If it is determined that the payload does not contain the end of the specified protocol PDU control then flows to block . If it is determined that the payload does contain the end of the specified protocol PDU control then flows to block .

At block it is determined whether the end of the list of underlying protocol PDU descriptors has been reached. For example if the current packet PDU descriptor does not have a reference to a subsequent packet PDU descriptor the end of the list has been reached. If it is determined that the end of the underlying protocol PDU descriptor list has not been reached control then flows to block . If it is determined that the end of the underlying protocol PDU descriptor list has been reached control then flows to block .

At block the next underlying protocol PDU descriptor is selected. The next underlying protocol PDU descriptor is selected by referring to the reference for the next underlying protocol PDU descriptor instead of the current packet PDU descriptor. After the next packet PDU descriptor is selected control then flows back to block .

Control flowed to block if it was determined at block that the end of the underlying protocol PDU list was reached. At block an indication that the created PDU descriptor is incomplete is returned. Thus an entity that relies on the creation of the PDU descriptor is notified that the PDU descriptor is incomplete. For example if an application requested data for a specific message the indication notifies the application that not all packets containing the message data have been received. If the process depicted in was invoked at block the parent process is notified that all of the underlying protocol PDU descriptors have been created allowing the parent process to continue creating the higher level PDU descriptors. After the indication that the created PDU descriptor is incomplete is returned the process ends.

Control flowed to block if it was determined at block that the payload contains the end of the specified protocol PDU. At block the created PDU descriptor is inserted into a list of PDU descriptors for the specified protocol. In other words the created PDU descriptor is inserted into a list of PDU descriptors that are associated with messages of the specified protocol. The created PDU descriptor can be inserted into the list as described above. After the created PDU descriptor is inserted into the list of PDU descriptors control then flows to block .

At block it is determined whether the end of the list of underlying protocol PDU descriptors has been reached. For example if the current packet PDU descriptor does not have a reference to a subsequent packet PDU descriptor the end of the list has been reached. If it is determined that the end of the packet PDU descriptor list has not been reached control then flows to block . If it is determined that the end of the packet PDU descriptor list has been reached control then flows to block .

At block the next underlying protocol PDU descriptor is selected. The next underlying protocol PDU descriptor is selected by referring to the reference for the next underlying protocol PDU descriptor instead of the current underlying protocol PDU descriptor. After the next underlying protocol PDU descriptor is selected control then flows back to block .

Control flowed to block if it was determined at block that the end of the underlying protocol PDU descriptor list had been reached. At block the created PDU descriptors are returned because all received underlying protocol PDUs have been analyzed for PDUs of the specified protocol. Because no more underlying protocol PDUs have been received no more specified protocol PDU descriptors can be created. After the created PDU descriptors are returned the process ends.

As described above the application can request application message data using a variety of criteria. For example the application might request application message data for the next application message with a specific command. Thus in some implementations the PDU stream interface might determine whether a found application message meets the specified criteria prior to creating the message descriptor. In some implementations the PDU stream interface might create message descriptors for all application messages found. The PDU stream interface can then optionally delete message descriptors that do not meet the criteria of the request from the application.

A component that embodies the functionality described herein such as a PDU stream interface can be implemented in a modular pipelined format. By separating various operations involved in abstracting the packet data into modules the modules can be customized or switched out depending on the particular environment. If the operations of each module are independent of each other the modules can be implemented using an Actor Model methodology allowing asynchronous communications between the components. If the operations of each module are independent of each other the modules can be assigned independently to various processor cores further increasing the potential performance of the system.

The packet reader module monitors a buffer pool not depicted for new packets and sets up the initial packet descriptor data structures. Thus at stage A the packet reader module determines that a new packet has been written into a buffer of the buffer pool. The packet reader module creates a packet descriptor data structure and initializes a reference to the buffer depicted by the first packet descriptor representation . The packet reader module then passes a packet descriptor reference to the network parser module .

The network reader module parses the packet data in the buffer referenced by the packet descriptor. Thus at stage B the network reader module extracts a set of one or more network related values from the packet data. For example the network reader module may determine the IP address and port number associated with the packet by extracting the data from the packet header. The network reader module stores the network related data in the packet descriptor depicted by the second packet descriptor . The network reader module then determines which pipeline the packet descriptor reference should be passed to. For example the network reader module might determine that all packets sent to a first port are to be processed by pipeline A and all packets sent to a second port are to be processed by pipeline B . The network parser module might be implemented to use any or all of the data available to determine which pipeline the packet descriptor reference should be sent to.

The protocol parser modules and put the packet descriptors in the proper sequential order and perform other operations that are based on the protocol such as building message descriptors. Thus at stage C the protocol parser module stores a reference to packet descriptor associated with a packet that that is the next sequential packet depicted by the third packet descriptor . The protocol parser might receive requests for application message data and create message descriptors in response to said receiving the requests for application message data.

Many different implementation variations are possible. For example each NIC within a computer may have a separate packet reader and or network parser module . Multiple NICs within a computer may share the packet reader and or network parser module . One or more NICS within a computer may have multiple packet reader modules and or network parser modules. The packet reader module and or network parser module can be a part of a pipeline. Further modules may share pipelines or have one or more dedicated pipelines.

Each pipeline may have a different purpose. For example pipeline A might be responsible for handling packets for protocol A while pipeline B is responsible for handling packets for protocol B. Thus protocol parser module may differ from protocol parser module . Similarly the pipelines may be responsible for handling packets from the same protocol but performing different operations on the packets. For example protocol parser module and protocol parser module may function identically. However pipeline A might contain different modules after the protocol parser module stage than pipeline B .

Multiple protocol parser modules might be used. For example some protocols are built upon other protocols such as the Network File System NFS protocol being built on a Remote Procedure Call RPC protocol. A pipeline designed to perform operations on packets containing NFS data may include an RPC protocol parser module to parse the RPC related data followed by an NFS protocol parser module to parse the NFS related data. The particular responsibilities of the various protocol parser modules can vary depending on the specific protocols.

The specific implementations of the embodiments described herein and other variations of the described embodiments that are consistent with the descriptions herein can vary based on many factors such as the implementations features and functionality of components with which the PDU stream interface interacts and the general environment. For example a PDU stream interface cannot take advantage of being notified that new packet data has been written into a buffer unless another component is implemented such that it can provide the notification. Similarly a PDU stream interface that is implemented specifically to interact with kernel modules might not implement an API that can interact with applications running in user space. However even though these factors can impact specific implementations the implementations are not generally limited by these factors. For example even in a computer in which no component is capable of notifying a PDU stream interface that packet data has been written to a buffer pool the PDU stream interface might prospectively implement functionality that is capable of receiving notifications should such functionality be implemented in the future.

As example flowcharts present operations in an example order from which embodiments can deviate e.g. operations can be performed in a different order than illustrated and or in parallel . For example additional operations may be performed between blocks and in the process depicted in to determine whether the next underlying protocol payload is associated with the particular specified protocol PDU that is associated with the created PDU descriptor. Such a scenario might arise when the parts of the application message are not contained in contiguous packets.

The descriptions herein refer to one or more computers. A computer comprises any kind of computing system machine or device including a personal computer a laptop a server a tablet a smartphone a smartwatch etc. A computer can also comprise a computing system that is communicatively coupled with other computer systems to form a set of computing systems that coordinate to perform functions similar to that of a single computing system. Further a computer can comprise the aforementioned set of coordinated computing systems. In other words where the descriptions herein refer to a computer a distributed computing system grid computing system cloud computing system etc. can be used.

The descriptions herein also refer to applications including interactions with applications . The term applications as used herein includes any form of software firmware or combinations thereof that are capable of performing the operations described. For example when a description refers to an application interacting with an Application Programming Interface API a hardware module programmed to interact with the API is an application. Additionally an application can be but is not always a standalone application. For example in the preceding example the component implementing the API and the application interacting with the API can both be components of another application.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the inventive subject matter may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the inventive subject matter may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the inventive subject matter may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example a device or collection of devices that store program code instructions by electronic means magnetic means optical means electromagnetic means infrared means or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with a computer. A computer readable storage medium does not comprise a transitory signal.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to an electro magnetic signal an optical signal an infrared signal or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with a computer. Program code embodied on a computer readable signal medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the inventive subject matter may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as the Java programming language C or the like a dynamic programming language such as Python and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on a stand alone computer may execute in a distributed manner across multiple computers and may execute on one computer while providing results and or accepting input on another computer.

Aspects of the inventive subject matter are described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program code instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium to produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

While the embodiments are described with reference to various implementations and exploitations it will be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and that the scope of the inventive subject matter is not limited to them. In general techniques for providing a coherent view of protocol data units written into a buffer pool as they are received as described herein may be implemented with facilities consistent with any hardware system or hardware systems. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible.

Plural instances may be provided for components operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of the inventive subject matter. In general structures and functionality presented as separate components in the example illustrations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of the inventive subject matter.

