---

title: Computer-implemented systems and methods of analyzing spatial, temporal and contextual elements of data for predictive decision-making
abstract: A computer-implemented system and method of analyzing spatial, temporal and contextual elements of data for predictive decision-making. The computer-implemented method includes receiving a first set of rules and receiving first data and second data including spatial, temporal and contextual elements. The computer-implemented method also includes identifying each rule of the first set for which the received first data and the received second data is a respective candidate. For the identified rules for which the received first data is a candidate, and for the identified rules for which the received second data is a candidate, the respective received first data and received second data is indexed by its temporal, spatial or contextual elements as a function of the identified rules. The computer-implemented method also includes identifying an event as satisfying an identified rule in memory using the indexed first and second data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424521&OS=09424521&RS=09424521
owner: Transvoyant, Inc.
number: 09424521
owner_city: Alexandria
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130927
---
The present disclosure is directed generally to analyzing data and more particularly to computer implemented systems and methods of analyzing spatial temporal and contextual elements of data for predictive decision making.

Having access to information has become increasingly important in today s society. Over the past ten years government and business entities have invested in their respective capability to collect and analyze large amounts of data including intelligence risk supply chain transaction location and behavioral data. Government agencies have seen the need to compress cycle time in their intelligence targeting and risk management decision processes to combat rapidly changing national security risks threats and tactics. Commercial entities have also and similarly seen the need for a compressed decision cycle time to address the rapid increase in the speed at which the global consumers preferences and desires consumer demand must be met.

Some conventional models of handling these rapidly changing environments risks and threats emphasize having as much data as possible and rely on huge buffer stocks of data inventory in order to protect against change. However such conventional models have been largely unsuccessful because the end result is a large quantity of unmanageable information without an effective solution for analyzing processing and providing such information to drive real time predictive decision making against such rapidly changing risks threats and environments.

Mobile devices such as cellular phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs tablets other wirelessly enabled devices and remote sensing technology have successfully penetrated and been adopted by the general consumer market and by many government entities. Individuals businesses and government agencies have come to enjoy appreciate and rely on the convenience flexibility and mobility of wireless devices and sensors as a means to readily obtain access to information facilitate communications and interact with friends family colleagues and business entities other friendly deployed units etc. Thus it is critical that systems and methods for delivering information to information users place the information at the fingertips of the users in order to permit enhanced real time predictive decision making.

Conventional systems and methods for retrieving and delivering information such as search engine platforms e.g. Google Bing store static information e.g. information about web pages on the World Wide Web in databases for use in later queries by users of the search engine platforms. For example various conventional search engine platforms store static information for all or part of a cached source page as well as various pieces of static information about the web pages e.g. words extracted from the title parts of the text contained in the web page meta tags etc. in databases. Conventional search engine providers collect this static information related to web pages using web crawlers and other data mining techniques. The search engine provider analyzes the static information to determine the manner of storing the information with a goal of permitting retrieval of information related to a user s query as quickly as possible.

When a user enters a query into a conventional search engine platform typically by using keywords the search engine platform queries its store of static information and provides a result set often consisting of a listing of best matching web pages according to its criteria for storing usually with a short summary including the title of the web page and sometimes parts of the text of the web page. Various conventional search engines e.g. Google LexisNexis permit users to query their databases by date key words and support the use of the boolean operators e.g. AND OR and NOT and or proximity operators to further specify the search query. Other conventional search engine platforms e.g. ask.com are designed for natural language queries which allow the user to type a question in the same form one would ask it to a human to retrieve relevant stored information.

Various search engine platforms employ methods to rank the results to provide the best or most relevant results first. Techniques for determining what web pages are the best matches for a user s query and what order the results should be shown in include leveraging ranking algorithms pre programmed predefined and hierarchically ordered keywords and inverted storage techniques that analyze information located during a query based search. Such search engine platforms provide users with static information results based on query based searching techniques. Such conventional platforms are based on retrieving static information based on user queries and providing such information to the user so that the user may review the provided information and or ask further questions to obtain a desired answer. Thus such conventional platforms are limited by the specificity of the user queries the relatedness of the user s query to the desired result and the user s own cycle time for reviewing the provided information.

Other conventional systems for collecting and processing information and providing results to users include systems that monitor and collect information from various sources including data streaming from sensors static emitters and other intelligence sources e.g. human intelligence HUMINT signals intelligence SIGINT electronic intelligence ELINT full motion video FMV etc. and provide analytical desktop based software tools to analysts or other individuals e.g. forward deployed soldiers or agents that retrieve the streaming data from the network store the data process the data temporally from storage and re assemble the data for evaluation by the human user. Evaluation of the data and correlating data elements across the various data sources is conventionally accomplished manually using individual requests for information RFIs conducted in real time e.g. via chat or other communication means . Such systems are time intensive laborious require manual analysis and correlation are subject to human error and slow down analysis of the data and decision making based on such analysis. Such conventional techniques are subject to perishable correlations since the correlations are manually performed. Moreover such methods and systems are reactive to what has happened in the past rather than what is happening in the present or what is about to happen in the future.

Other conventional systems for collecting and processing information and providing results to users include systems that monitor and collect information from various sources including data streaming from sensors and static emitters store the data and analyze such data using spatiotemporal rule based engines repositories of spatial and temporal boundaries and repositories of rules. In such conventional rule based systems users may define spatial and temporal boundaries that represent areas of interest as well as rules that define conditions such as inside outside enter exit and distance relative to such spatial and temporal boundaries. In such conventional systems all of the data streaming from sensors and static emitters is collected and stored in persistent storage and each rule is applied by querying all of the collected and stored data. When a rule tests true e.g. two objects come within a defined proximity of a defined area of interest an event is generated by the rule based engine and a user can be alerted of the generation of such event. For example in such conventional systems spatial queries are applied to the collected and stored data either automatically e.g. based on Cartesian coordinates or manually e.g. via an operator running spatial queries and an alert is generated if data enters or exits the spatially defined area. However these conventional systems cannot process or analyze contextual elements of data and thus generate many spurious events and require human analysts to analyze the contextual elements of the objects and or the generated event. None of the collected and stored data is disregarded which results in a high number of required operations and system latency. Spatial and temporal elements of the streaming data and static emitter data are not operated on in a distributed environment which prevents the dynamic generation of events necessary for predictive decision making. Additionally changes or modifications to existing rules or the creation of new rules in these conventional systems require changes to the system infrastructure or software code and do not provide any capability to permit users to change rules on the fly based on spatial and temporal and or contextual results received either manually or automatically. What is needed are systems and methods for dynamically predicting events analyzing risks and taking decisive predictive actions based on efficiently receiving and processing information having spatial and temporal and or contextual elements in a multidimensional environment in the correct context and at the correct time and place.

Like the accelerated adoption of the Internet itself cloud computing is rapidly gaining momentum. Cloud computing refers to a computing model for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable information technology IT capabilities or resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released e.g. with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Cloud computing allows users to access technology based services from a network cloud without knowledge of expertise with or control over the technology infrastructure that supports them much as consumers of electric utilities are agnostic as to details of the underlying electrical grid. The cloud is a service provider s offering of abstracted computing related services. The cloud computing model generally enables on demand computing self service ubiquitous network access location independent resource pooling rapid elasticity e.g. quick demand based resource scaling and measured computing service.

Cloud computing models permit service providers to offer services on an on demand or as needed e.g. subscription basis and customers to purchase or rent computer infrastructure related services as an outsourced service e.g. on an as needed or as consumed basis instead of having to purchase equipment e.g. servers software data center space or network equipment themselves.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure a computer implemented method for predictive decision making is provided. The computer implemented method includes receiving a first set of rules and receiving first data including spatial temporal and contextual elements. The computer implemented method also includes identifying each rule of the first set for which the received first data is a candidate. For the identified rules for which the received first data is a candidate the first received data is indexed in memory e.g. Random Access Memory RAM by its temporal spatial or contextual elements as a function of the identified rules. The computer implemented method also includes receiving second data including spatial temporal and contextual elements and identifying each rule of the first set for which the received second data is a candidate. For the identified rules for which the received second data is a candidate the received second data is indexed in memory by its temporal spatial or contextual elements as a function of the identified rules. The computer implemented method further includes identifying an event as satisfying an identified rule in memory using the indexed first and second data.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure a computer implemented method for predictive decision making is provided. The computer implemented method includes receiving a request for a new rule defining a relationship between spatial temporal and contextual elements. The computer implemented method also includes identifying an existing rule having a defined relationship between spatial temporal and contextual elements and recommending a modification to said new rule request based on the identified existing rule.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure a computer implemented method for predictive decision making is provided. The computer implemented method includes receiving a first set of rules. The computer implemented method also includes receiving first data and second data including respective spatial temporal and contextual elements identifying each respective rule of the first set for which the received first data or received second data is a respective candidate and indexing the respective received first data or received second data in memory as a function of the identified rules. The computer implemented method includes evaluating the indexed received first and second data in memory to determine whether an identified rule is satisfied.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure a computer implemented method for predictive decision making is provided. The computer implemented method includes receiving a first set of rules receiving a plurality of data including spatial temporal and contextual elements for a predetermined period of time identifying each rule of the first set for which the received plurality of data is a candidate and storing the plurality of data that is identified as being a candidate for one or more rules of the first set in persistent storage. The computer implemented method also includes retrieving the stored plurality of data and indexing the retrieved data in memory by its temporal spatial or contextual elements as a function of the identified rules for which the retrieved data is a candidate. The computer implemented method further includes identifying an event as satisfying one or more rules of the first set of rules using the indexed retrieved data.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure a computer implemented method for predictive decision making is provided. The computer implemented method includes evaluating indexed data in memory to identify an event as satisfying a rule of a first set of rules and providing a rule suggestion based on the identified event. The computer implemented method also includes modifying a rule of a set of rules based on the rule suggestion. The computer implemented method further includes receiving data including spatial temporal and contextual elements identifying received data as being a candidate for one or more rules of the set of rules including the modified rule and indexing the identified data by its spatial temporal or contextual elements as a function of the one or more rules.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure a system for predictive decision making is provided. The system includes a plurality of predictive service cores configured to provide processing distributed working memory and a plurality of distributed nodes in a network in a cloud of a cloud computing environment a user interface module configured to provide a plurality of portals and a plurality of service catalogs for respective users of the cloud a rules manager configured to receive a first set of rules for a respective user and define a respective distributed data structure for determining whether data is a candidate for each respective rule of the first set of rules and one or more data modules configured to receive first data comprising spatial temporal and contextual elements. The system also includes a rules decision engine module configured to identify each rule of the first set for which the received data is a candidate index the received data in memory by its spatial temporal and contextual elements as a function of the identified rules and identify events as satisfying identified rules in memory using the indexed data. The distributed working memory of the system includes a plurality of in memory distributed data structures to place the indexed data.

With reference to the Figures where like elements have been given like numerical designations to facilitate an understanding of the drawings the various embodiments of a system and method of analyzing spatial temporal and contextual elements of data for predictive decision making are described. The figures are not drawn to scale.

Various embodiments address the foregoing deficiencies of prior art systems and methods of collecting and analyzing information and providing results to users and provide systems and methods to facilitate real time spatial temporal and contextual based decision making and predictive analytics in dynamic and high data volume environments to the benefit of government business and individual users and providers of such services alike. For example users benefit from being able to define and modify complex rules without administrator support system restart or software code revisions to receive real time results and notifications when such defined rules are satisfied by determined correlations between spatial temporal and contextual elements of dynamic data to analyze risks efficiently and to enable predictive decision making. Service providers also benefit from being able to collect and analyze high volumes of complex static data e.g. data of roads railroad tracks points of interest power lines utility locations facility base locations power grid locations planted crop data etc. and dynamic data e.g. streaming data of sensors or components providing location and other dynamically changing attribute data human location data seismic data weather data sea state data avionics data targets of interest data plane location data ship location data cargo data intelligence data etc. efficiently in memory minimize storage requirements and offer such services on an on demand or as needed basis over the Internet or Web and instead of requiring users to utilize and purchased individually based software.

The following description is provided as an enabling teaching of a representative set of examples. Many changes can be made to the embodiments described herein while still obtaining beneficial results. Some of the desired benefits discussed below can be obtained by selecting some of the features or steps discussed herein without utilizing other features or steps. Accordingly many modifications and adaptations as well as subsets of the features and steps described herein are possible and can even be desirable in certain circumstances. Thus the following description is provided as illustrative and is not limiting.

This description of illustrative embodiments is intended to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings which are to be considered part of the entire written description. In the description of embodiments disclosed herein any reference to direction or orientation is merely intended for convenience of description and is not intended in any way to limit the scope of the present disclosure. Relative terms such as lower upper horizontal vertical above below up down top and bottom as well as derivative thereof e.g. horizontally downwardly upwardly etc. should be construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown in the drawing under discussion. These relative terms are for convenience of description only and do not require that a system or apparatus be constructed or operated in a particular orientation. Terms such as attached affixed connected and interconnected refer to a relationship wherein structures are secured or attached to one another either directly or indirectly through intervening structures as well as both movable or rigid attachments or relationships unless expressly described otherwise. The term adjacent as used herein to describe the relationship between structures components includes both direct contact between the respective structures components referenced and the presence of other intervening structures components between respective structures components.

As used herein use of a singular article such as a an and the is not intended to exclude pluralities of the article s object unless the context clearly and unambiguously dictates otherwise.

The inventors have developed a system and method of analyzing spatial temporal and contextual elements of data that provide users with predictive decision making capabilities to improve revenue decrease costs shorten detection to response cycle times save lives protect equipment minimize impact of weather and natural disasters efficiently use resources exploit and or take advantage of opportunities avoid blackouts or brownouts and permit individuals businesses government agencies friends and families alike to proactively detect and predict potential problems or risks and provide tailored solutions before the onset of such problems or risks. For example the inventors have determined that systems and methods provided herein can predict prevent alert and insure against catastrophic weather conditions e.g. fire tornadoes hurricanes flooding based on real time weather upcoming public or private event data scheduled routes e.g. air land or sea sources of news and social media and predicted patterns of causal factors. The inventors have further determined that systems and methods provided herein can actively alert alter and re route traffic e.g. shipping traffic air traffic vehicular traffic alert and alter schedules alert optimize and implement equipment network grid configurations based on real time weather currents emission rules fuel optimization and continuously updated hazard e.g. piracy protest violent uprising information thereby protecting valuable and or hazardous cargo e.g. shipments and increasing revenue.

The inventors have also determined that systems and methods provided herein can actively track trace monitor manage and alert employees contractors based on real time weather health product or service demand financial etc. information thereby optimizing workforce and increasing revenue. The inventors have observed for example that the systems and methods described herein can provide continuous risk analysis and real time event prediction for units operating on patrol e.g. from being ambushed by enemy soldiers and automate efforts to significantly shorten a cycle time between risk identification and elimination. By way of example the inventors have also observed that the systems and methods described herein can detect and predict real time demand influences of individuals and groups and inject automated demand influencers to increase revenue of businesses apply user defined preference and movement pattern data and contextual data to optimize real time movement and scheduling of social events and other human interactions and analyze real time information and provide alerts directed to satisfying emotional and social needs of individuals and groups alike. The inventors have further determined that for example the systems and methods described herein can provide continuous risk analysis real time event prediction and or notification real time sequencing optimization real time geospatial e.g. weather tracking and alerting remote device monitoring crowd sourcing etc. services for a wide variety of industries e.g. electric power oil and gas industrial manufacturing transportation life sciences healthcare agriculture food and beverage high tech retail consumer financial services and automate efforts to significantly shorten cycle times between risk identification mitigation and or elimination.

For example the inventors have observed that the systems and methods described herein can analyze real time information and provide real time alerts recommendations and solutions modeling research idea generation and interactive decision making for spill mitigation plant safety energy trading crew management security and protection etc. to oil and gas industry users remote monitoring and maintenance manufacturing plant monitoring control vehicle and fleet monitoring control driverless vehicle building energy usage management demand response supply chain risk plant safety security and facility protection commodity price spare parts demand etc. to industrial manufacturing users hedge funds investment banks private equities venture capital wealth management commodity traders mutual funds pension funds corporate investments insurance investments etc. to financial industry users utilities independent power producers retail ancillary services service and maintenance equipment and systems engineering and construction finance developers transmission system operators regulators etc. to electric power utilities users remote management facility campus management logistics process management labor management risk management etc. for high tech industry users e.g. suppliers contract manufacturers OEMs software and retail users and for grower segment e.g. field monitoring advanced farming techniques logistics segment energy fuel consumption routing re routing maintenance consumption production and manufacturing commodity purchasing wholesale commodity purchasing for agriculture and other food and beverage industry users and retail wholesale industry users.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure provide a cloud computing environment as shown in that includes multiple blocks of hardware referred to as predictive service cores denoted predictive service cores . . . N these may be referred to collectively as predictive service cores and various modules operating in a cloud computing environment including a user interface a rules decision engine module including a rules manager streaming data module and static data module that provide real time in memory collection and analysis of dynamic and static data including spatial temporal and contextual elements and predictive decision outputs based on complex rules established defined and modified by users accessing the system via the user interface . In some embodiments static data module receives user static data e.g. from one or more static data sources for one or more users or groups of users and or external static data e.g. from one or more static data sources external to users or groups of users . In some embodiments streaming data module receives streaming user data e.g. from one or more streaming data sources for one or more users or groups of users and or external streaming data e.g. from one or more streaming data sources external to users or groups of users . Cloud computing environment can also include forensics module for recording reporting tuning and playback of collected data. Although three predictive service cores are shown in this example any number of predictive service cores may be used. Operational personnel e.g. system administrators or other personnel of a service provider may access the rules manager of the rules decision engine module referred to as rules decision module for convenience and or the user interface . In various embodiments operational personnel can access other modules e.g. forensics module streaming data module static data module etc. .

Referring again to the user interface module provides an interface between users and the cloud e.g. a public cloud . The user in this context may refer to a customer of the cloud e.g. business employee government agency employee agent analyst soldier etc. provided by a predictive service provider or an individual at a customer site with a network connection to the cloud . In various embodiments the user interface is a representational state transfer REST application programming interface API based on a JSON model to provide access to many types of clients e.g. thick and thin clients mobile phone clients mobile device clients desktop clients etc. In various embodiments user interface module provides a Web based interface e.g. via a web based application . In various embodiments user interface provides platform device independent visualization. In various embodiments user interface provides portal services to many types of clients . In various embodiments user interface module includes web services. In various embodiments user interface module provides a command driven interface e.g. DOS Linux etc. command driven interface .

The user interface module can include a portal including a separate portal and a particular dynamic service catalog for each customer e.g. for each of several businesses government agencies units or other organizations . A dynamic service catalog includes one or more static and or dynamic data sources e.g. structured data sources unstructured data sources sensors collection systems GPS RFID towers HUMINT SIGINT ELINT FMV Automatic Identification System AIS inputs temporary flight restrictions TFR inputs mapping data sources public transit e.g. bus rail light rail etc. routes and schedules traffic data sources NASDAQ NYSE AMEX social media sources proprietary customer data sources etc. structured data indices of spatial temporal and or contextual elements user defined rules and or sets of rules user defined alerts notifications user defined forensics requirements and or automatic indicators of rule satisfaction. In various embodiments a dynamic service catalog can be changed based on a user s input and or an administrator s input e.g. based on a user s subscription to a service of the cloud service provider . Users within one organization can be segregated from users in other organizations and users in one portion of an organization can be can be segregated from users in other portions of the same organization. Users working on one project for an organization can be can be segregated from users working on another project for the same organization. Although the breakdown is by organizations portions of organizations or projects within organizations in these examples portals may be used for providing access to users in other segregational or classification schemes. Users are referred to generically as users .

The rules manager of rules decision engine module manages rule based operations including without limitation the operations of creating rules modifying rules providing rule suggestions providing rule modification suggestions providing for data source association with rules providing fields for a user s input of rule elements and or defining a plurality of distributed data structures in memory for determining whether data that is received into the system is a candidate for rules managed by rules manager . In various embodiments the rules manager interfaces with user interface module predictive service core streaming data module and static data module . As used herein rules are user or system defined scenarios questions or algorithms defining relationships of spatial temporal and contextual data elements of interest to a user groups of users or other systems or machines. In various embodiments rules include a plurality of rule fields. In various embodiments rules are created manually e.g. by a user or by groups of users via for example user interface . In various embodiments rules are generated automatically by rules manager in communication with other managers and or sub modules of rules decision engine module based upon determined relationships patterns trends forecasts and or other forms of analysis executed by such sub modules or managers e.g. based upon a created relationship between one or more spatial temporal or contextual elements of indexed data in memory . In various embodiments rules are generated automatically by rules decision engine module in communication with one or more other modules e.g. forensics module .

In various embodiments a rule identifies relationships between potential candidates of a rule. As used herein data is a candidate for a rule if the data is relevant to the rule such that it could be correlated with other data to satisfy the rule. A rule is satisfied if spatial temporal and contextual data elements of indexed data distributed in memory derived data and events and or received or retrieved data meet all of the definitions of required fields for the rule. In some embodiments rules decision module can evaluate variables having spatial temporal and contextual elements defined by a user via user interface module and or automatically defined by one or more modules in cloud computing environment in combination with such data to determine whether a rule is satisfied. In various embodiments rules decision engine module identifies an event as satisfying a rule. In various embodiments rules can be suggested by rules decision engine module based on satisfaction of other rules.

In various embodiments rules manager creates a distributed data structure e.g. in a distributed data structure such as for example a distributed R tree index Quadtree index Rete diagram Gna tree Octree Grid Z order time split B tree multi version B tree etc. architecture in memory e.g. in an in memory data grid for each rule and or for the rules managed by rules manager . In various embodiments rules manager stores rules created by or for a particular user in a rules storage unit e.g. NoSQL database for the particular user . In some embodiments rules manager can store rules created by or for a particular user in a non transitory tangible machine readable storage medium. The non transitory tangible storage medium can be a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage medium a memory device e.g. flash or random access memory a hard disk drive a tape drive an optical drive such as but not limited to CDROM DVD or BDROM or the like or a combination of one or more of them.

In some embodiments rules manager provides a rule creation interface via user interface including various fields such as but not limited to rule name spatial data elements temporal data elements contextual data elements source inputs satisfaction of notification requirements to user and a user selects and defines fields for each respective rule. For example rule fields can include ship or aircraft identification speed origin location time flag seismic information proximity information relative time etc. In various embodiments each rule associated with a user in rules manager includes a respective field associated with each of a respective one of a spatial temporal or contextual element.

The respective fields can include any suitable respective spatial temporal or contextual element or combinations thereof. For example one or more respective rule fields can include spatial elements such as geo location information proximity information altitude information density information depth information size information shape information geometry type information relative entry or exit information relative inside or outside information cluster information boundary information predicted and actual tack information and combinations thereof another one or more respective rule fields can include temporal elements such as absolute time information relative time information date information time proximity information date proximity information time date window information automatically adjustable date time window information date time window proximity information schedule information velocity information acceleration information and combinations thereof and another one or more respective rule fields can include contextual elements such as attribute information origin information destination information route information passenger information cargo information vehicle information airframe information corporate information fuel type information signature information temperature information oceanographic information weather parameter information capability information historical information identification information financial information threat assessment information intelligence information emergency information injury information and combinations thereof.

Various rules can be created and or modified in memory via rules manager . In one example a rule defined by a user in rules manager can be if an earthquake of greater than 5.1 on the Richter scale occurs within fifty miles of a particular car manufacturing facilities in Japan that represent more than 55 of the output for that particular car manufacturer and stock associated with the that particular car manufacturer is trading above 65 provide all rule users e.g. stock owners with notification of the event. In another example a rule defined by a user in rules manager can be notify all rule users communicate a predetermined warning over bridge to bridge communications and notify the Coast Guard station nearest the location where the rule is satisfied thirty minutes before a fishing trawler crosses over a user s e.g. a communications company undersea fiber in water less than 100 feet deep when winds are blowing over 30 knots atmospheric pressure greater than or equal to 20 bar or waves are in excess of 5 feet. Another rule example defined by a user can be to provide a parent rule user with notification if their child is not within 0.5 miles of their house between 7 p.m. and 6 a.m. on weekdays or between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. on weekends. Another rule example defined by a user can be to provide a parent rule user with notification if a registered sex offender is within 1 mile of their child s bus route between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. or between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. on weekdays. In another example a rule defined by a user in rules manager can be if social media sources indicate a bomb has exploded near the White House but real time data says there are no traffic or public transit delays in Washington D.C. automatically power on a police scanner and provide verification to a rule user.

Another example of a rule according to various embodiments can be to provide notification to all rule users e.g. a transit company if identified sensitive cargo traveling on a company s truck along an identified transit path is approaching a storm a major traffic incident or social unrest after a loss by a sports team within 50 miles of the truck s current location. Another example could be to notify local authorities and deploy the closest intelligence assets e.g. assets capable of collecting HUMINT SIGINT ELINT imagery intelligence ILINT measurement and signature intelligence MASINT technical intelligence TECHINT open source intelligence OSINT FMV etc. to investigate social media uses of keywords e.g. bomb or attack or jihad within 20 miles of identified cargo tanker shipping or areas of interest. Another example could be to notify local and or federal law enforcement authorities and deploy the closest intelligence assets e.g. assets capable of collecting HUMINT SIGINT ELINT imagery intelligence ILINT measurement and signature intelligence MASINT technical intelligence TECHINT open source intelligence OSINT FMV etc. to investigate social media uses of keywords e.g. Twitter identifiers with the letter p at the front or back escort service etc. within a predetermined timeframe e.g. 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. within 10 miles of identified location types e.g. restaurants truck stops hotels motels etc. and during events that have been previously associated with human trafficking prostitution and other types of criminal activity e.g. major sporting major concert etc. Another example of a rule could be to provide tipping and queuing and deploy the closest intelligence assets e.g. assets capable of collecting HUMINT SIGINT ELINT imagery intelligence ILINT measurement and signature intelligence MASINT technical intelligence TECHINT open source intelligence OSINT FMV etc. if real time streaming blue force tracking data indicates that a convoy is within a specified proximity to a specified person or area of interest and the data is less than 1 hour old.

Another example of a rule defined by a user in rules manager can be to provide a predetermined message to a patient of a dietician or doctor e.g. Keep up all of your hard work in staying healthy if the patient is approaching within two blocks of a fast food restaurant running a special on a patient s favorite sandwich between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. on weekdays. Another example can be to notify a user when real time severe weather conditions and social media uses of keywords e.g. water river injury closed warning destroyed hurt etc. occur in real time within 100 meters of points of interest routes e.g. between home and work doctor s office and at predetermined times of day. Another example of a rule could be to notify business managers and or on site crew managers or employees of real time weather conditions e.g. weather corridors lightning strikes etc. within a predefined area e.g. radius attribute or number of severe weather events e.g. 10 lightning strikes within a predefined period of time e.g. 1 minute within a predefined area e.g. radius attribute and provide real time asset status e.g. trucks ships planes work crews and or real time tracking of damage to infrastructure or equipment. Another example could be a set of rules designed to provide real time identification of trends and projection of gross domestic product for a country e.g. country that is predominantly export driven such as Vietnam etc. for hedge fund manager users well in advance of official government statistics users based on real time live streaming data of commercial vessel location and type e.g. ship location ship type e.g. container petroleum chemical etc. aircraft location and aircraft type e.g. global air cargo etc. etc. and points of commercial interest e.g. ports harbors airports such as Haiphong harbor Saigon harbor Vietnam International airport etc. rules to analyze and store such data for predefined periods of time e.g. daily weekly monthly etc. rules to compute statistical parameters based on the stored data rules to generate alerts when predefined commercial activity is reached and or rules to compare current observed real time commercial flow against predefined moving averages automatically provided from stored data and or generated alerts. Another example of a rule could be to provide early warning alerts to users e.g. commercial business postal companies travelers of likely air transit disruptions e.g. Federal Aviation Administration issued ground stops wildfires volcanic ash smoke etc. at specific airports and provides recommended alternate air routes if weather and or seismic conditions within a defined proximity of scheduled airports and scheduled flights for cargo mail packages or persons as appropriate indicate likely grounding of aircraft to provide adequate time for users to re route ground couriers to alternate airports reschedule flights or re route transportation of users or employees to still ensure timely delivery and or arrival.

Any suitable rule can be defined by users via user interface . In various embodiments rules manager provides a rule modification interface via user interface to user to modify the distributed data structure for the rule in memory. In some embodiments rules manager provides a rule modification interface via user interface to user to modify fields of an existing rule stored in a database of rules manager . In various embodiments rules manager creates a distributed data structure in memory e.g. in an in memory data grid for each rule and or in an in memory database e.g. IMDB MMDB memory resident database etc. . In various embodiments rules manager creates one or more distributed data structure in memory for all of the rules managed by rules manager . In some embodiments a distributed data structure for each rule and or for the rules managed by rules manager is modified e.g. automatically modified in memory each time a field of a rule is modified and or a rule is added into or deleted from the system. The inventors have determined that creating distributed data structures in an in memory grid for example for the various rules managed by rules manager vastly improves efficiency and scalability of the methods and systems described herein. In various embodiments rules manager stores rules in a NoSQL database. In various embodiments rules manager in communication with service core can create a distributed data structure for each rule defined in rules manager for user i in an in memory data grid. In some embodiments rules manager in communication with service core can store the rules for a particular user in a respective storage node i in NoSQL database for a user i and partitioned by each rule defined in rules manager for user i . In various embodiments rules manager in communication with service core can create a distributed data structure for all of the rules defined in rules manager for a user group of users and or all of the users of the system in an in memory data grid.

Rules manager can also synchronize data sources from streaming data module and static data module based on selected defined rule fields for each respective rule. In various embodiments a rule can be defined to include a date time window field e.g. a time window field based on latency of updating spatial elements of received data. In various embodiments rules manager synchronizes feed timelines of data sources from streaming data module to permit cross monitoring of such sources and permit rules decision engine module to efficiently analyze multiple data sources. In various embodiments rules manager temporally synchronizes various data sources from streaming data module and static data module that are fed into cloud in a manner that is not synchronized temporally. For example streaming data module receives streaming data from a source e.g. ship location data having an update latency of three hours and streaming data from a plurality of sources having an update latency of less than one minute e.g. aircraft location data . In various embodiments a moving time window can be created and configured automatically and or manually by an operator or user for a rule for which the associated data is a candidate. For example a moving time window can be created and configured using rules manager for the ship location data source using rules manager such that a moving time window can be added to a temporal data structure e.g. by adding a track to an index entry of a temporal distributed data structure in distributed working memory for the ship location source for one or more rules for which the ship location data is identified as a candidate to cover the duration of the 3 hour latency period and until the moving time window expires at 3 hours. In various embodiments rules decision engine module can identify events as having satisfied a rule using the moving date time window. For example a rule can require a ship to have a position within a defined proximity to a point of interest e.g. oil rig underwater obstruction another ship land mass aircraft flying at an altitude of less than 10 000 feet etc. and the source of ship location data has a known latency of three hours. First data including ship location is received and rules decision engine module can evaluate whether a rule is satisfied using moving time window alone or in combination with second data that is received at the expiration of the latency period e.g. after three hours . For example rules decision engine module can use a moving time window to add a buffer zone track in a spatial index e.g. spatial distributed data structure based on the first received data ship course speed etc. and can identify an event as satisfying a rule using the buffer zone track. Further by way of example rules decision engine module can use a moving time window to add a time window track in a temporal index e.g. temporal distributed data structure and can identify an event as having been satisfied during the latency period based on the first received data and second received data ship location data received at separate event times three hours apart .

For example a company may rely on the use of an undersea fiber such that outages of the fiber result in the most negative mission impact and unplanned costs of any problem that the company faces. Thus the company is interested in knowing in advance of any likely cause of an outage of the undersea fiber to provide a mechanism for preventing the outage from occurring and or to shift to alternate communication means e.g. a non collocated undersea fiber in time to avoid significant disruption of their services. The company may know from past experience that the two most likely causes of cable outages are undersea seismic events and fishing trawling anchoring. The company may also understand that fishing trawlers only anchor when a storm is moving towards their vessel while underway and the winds are blowing in a specific direction and speed relative to their position and that their chance of anchoring increases when they are moving below a speed indicating they are fishing and not in transit. The systems and methods described herein provide a means to achieve such predictive decision making by creating tailored rules efficiently analyzing relevant real time information in distributed working memory using those rules and responding expeditiously and effectively.

The inventors have developed novel systems and methods to permit predictive decision making by analyzing spatial temporal and contextual elements of data using user defined rules in rules manager in distributed working memory. The inventors have determined that these novel systems and methods are critical to improving users response and cycle time to real time changes in the environment national security risks threats and tactics and to satisfy and meet global consumers preferences and desires consumer demand . The novel rules decision engine module provides users with the capability to rapidly create and modify rules in memory that are based on real time events and real time analytics respond to particular problems and issues they face or expect to face and manage risks rapidly efficiently and predicatively. The inventors have also observed that providing such an environment permits service providers to analyze and collect high volumes of complex dynamic and static data efficiently in memory at significant benefit to their customers minimize cost and overhead by significantly reducing storage requirements and offer such services on an on demand or as needed basis over the Internet or Web to maximize revenue.

Streaming data module includes real time data e.g. streaming data feeds from intra cloud and or third party streaming data sources e.g. weather sensors seismic sensors streaming data collection systems GPS RFID towers HUMINT SIGINT ELINT FMV AIS inputs TFR inputs air rail and or vehicular traffic data sources real time market data sources social media proprietary customer streaming data sources etc. associated with a user e.g. based on an organization s subscription to the cloud for the particular organization portion of the organization project etc. . In various embodiments streaming data module provides flowing data streams of live data. Static data module includes static data from intra cloud and or third party static data sources e.g. data stored in memory in data structures and or databases including mapping data sources public transit e.g. bus rail light rail etc. routes and schedules proprietary customer static data sources etc. associated with a user e.g. based on an organization s subscription to the cloud for the particular organization portion of the organization project etc. . In various embodiments streaming data module streams live data and static data module provides static data into system and is available to multiple users and or multiple service catalogs to create rules in memory modify rules in memory make rule suggestions in memory evaluate whether received data is a candidate for any existing rules in memory evaluate whether existing rules are satisfied in memory generate alerts in memory collect for forensic analysis etc.

The rules decision engine module manages real time decision operations including without limitation the operations of analyzing received data from streaming data module and static data module in distributed working memory to identify rules from rules manager for which the received data is a candidate indexing received data by its spatial temporal or contextual elements as a function of the identified rules e.g. the rules that the received data is identified as being a candidate for satisfying evaluating indexed data e.g. data placed in distributed data structures in memory to determine whether one or more rules are satisfied disregarding data that is determined not to be a candidate for the rules associated with rules manager for the user a group of users and or all of the users of the system identifying events as satisfying a rule using indexed data indexing events by spatial temporal or contextual elements storing events in persistent storage identifying rules as being satisfied using indexed data and or events creating relationships between one or more spatial temporal or contextual elements of indexed data suggesting relationships between one or more spatial temporal or contextual elements of indexed data placing the created relationships in distributed data structures in memory and or providing an indication that a rule is satisfied. In various embodiments the rules decision engine module interfaces with user interface module predictive service core communication interface module streaming data module static data module and or forensics module .

In various embodiments rules decision engine module analyzes received data from streaming data module e.g. individual or multiple live data streams and or static data module to automatically identify and correct for anomalies in the received data e.g. inbound data streams . In various embodiments rules decision engine module identifies and corrects for anomalies in the received data prior to analyzing the data to determine if the received data is a candidate for any of such rules and prior to indexing such data. For example rules decision engine module analyzes received data from multiple flowing data streams to identify whether data that should have an update latency of 10 seconds is not being updated for a longer period of time e.g. 2 hours . Further by way of example rules decision engine module analyzes received data from multiple flowing data streams to identify that data from streaming data source has an update latency of 2 hours and data from streaming data source has an update latency of 10 seconds.

In various embodiments rules decision engine module in communication with rules manager can automatically create and or configure a spatial buffer zone of uncertainty entry for a track in a spatial index e.g. spatial distributed data structure to correct for an identified anomaly. For example if rules decision engine module analyzes that an aircraft s three dimensional location is updated every 3 minutes the aircraft speed has varied between 450 and 560 miles per hour over the past 12 minutes and the aircraft altitude and course have remained constant over the past 12 minutes rules decision engine module can create a buffer zone of uncertainty for the aircraft e.g. at the current course altitude and speed in a spatial temporal and or contextual index e.g. spatial temporal and or contextual distributed data structure of data identified as being a candidate of one or more rules manager by rules manager during the latency period for use when identifying events as satisfying identified rules managed by rules manager . In various embodiments rules decision engine module in communication with rules manager can automatically create and or configure a moving date time window entry for a track in a temporal index to correct for an identified anomaly. In various embodiments rules decision engine module in communication with rules manager and streaming data module can update spatial temporal and contextual elements of received data in distributed data structures for defined rules using alternate streaming data sources e.g. sensors inertial navigation system etc. to correct for an anomaly. In various embodiments rules decision engine module in communication with rules manager and communication interface module can provide a notification of an identified anomaly in received data. For example rules decision engine module in communication with communications interface module can provide an alert to a user and or operator that an anomaly exists in the data received from a particular data source e.g. not updating consistent with typical update latency . Other examples of anomalies include but are not limited to differences in dates times when data is reported as being received as compared to actual dates times e.g. received from atomic time sources frequency latency that the data is updated as compared to known or learned latencies e.g. aircraft location updated every 40 minutes when known latency is 1 minute ship location updated every 12 hours when observed latency is every 3 hours etc. etc.

In various embodiments rules decision engine module analyzes received data based on the fields defined for the rules associated with rules manager to determine if the received data is a candidate for any of such rules to optimize indexing operations and to minimize any persistent storage requirements. For example rules decision engine module can analyze received data to identify and disregard spurious or not relevant data for any of the rules and the respective fields associated with the rules associated with rules manager for one or more users. In various embodiments rules decision engine module filters received data based on the fields defined for each rule of the rules associated with rules manager and determines whether the received data is a candidate for any of such rules. In various embodiments rules decision engine module analyzes received data based on distributed data structures created for the rules associated with rules manager for one or more users determines whether the received data is a candidate for any of such rules and disregards data that is determined not to be a candidate for any of such rules.

In various embodiments rules decision engine module disregards e.g. does not place in distributed working memory data that is determined not be a candidate for the rules associated with rules manager for one or more users. For example in some embodiments rules decision engine module will not place into a distributed data structure in memory and may expunge all disregarded data from one or more users respective predictive service core N. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can disregard data for a first user but can place the same data or a subset of the same data into distributed data structures in memory for a second user based on the second user s rules associated with rules manager . In some embodiments rules decision engine module can disregard data for all users based on the rules associated with rules manager . In some embodiments rules decision engine module can disregard data for a user but can still provide the data to forensics module for the user. In various embodiments if received data does not contain information responsive to any of the fields defined for rules associated with rules manager rules decision engine module filters out and or disregards the data. In various embodiments rules decision engine module can create a distributed data structure for the rules associated with rules manager . For example rules decision engine module can create a distributed data structure to identify data characteristics and or data elements that are candidates for the rules associated with rules manager .

In various embodiments for each identified rule for which the received data is identified as being a candidate rules decision engine module indexes such data by its spatial temporal and or contextual elements identified as being a candidate for the rules associated with rules manager as a function of the identified rules. As used herein indexing means placing into a distributed data structure in memory. In some embodiments rules decision engine module tags data during analyzing or indexing according to one or more fields of the rules. In various embodiments rules decision engine module analyzes and indexes data automatically dynamically and without any user intervention or input. In various embodiments rules decision engine module analyzes and indexes data automatically dynamically and without system interruption. In various embodiments rules decision engine module indexes e.g. places elements of received data in distributed data structures received data in an in memory RAM data grid e.g. in a distributed data structure such as for example a distributed R tree index Quadtree index Rete diagram Gna tree Octree Grid Z order time split B tree multi version B tree etc. data structure according to the type of data element identified as being a candidate for the rule and as a function of the rule fields defined for the rules of a rule set for a user group of users etc.

In various embodiments rules decision engine module places received data that is identified as a candidate for one or more rules of a set of rules managed by rules manager in memory in distributed data structures as a function of the one or more rules. In various embodiments rules decision engine module automatically and dynamically creates one or more spatial temporal or contextual distributed data structures in memory for data based on the identified rules and prior to reception of any data and can automatically modify the created distributed data structures if the rules are modified. In various embodiments rules decision engine module automatically places received data that is identified as a candidate for any rules of a set of rules in memory in one or more dimensional distributed data structures as a function of the rules for which the received data is a candidate and based on the spatial temporal or contextual elements of the received data by determining the priority of elements e.g. priority of spatial temporal or contextual elements for the received data identified as being a candidate for the rules.

For example received data that is identified as a candidate for rules of a set of rules may be indexed spatially temporally or contextually as a function of the selected defined fields of the rules managed by rules manager which are based on user defined priorities and or based on the dimensional type of data element that is identified as being a candidate for one or more of the rules. Depending on what rules are being managed by rules manager and evaluated at any given time by rules decision engine module the same received data may be evaluated and indexed differently. Further by way of example depending on the elements of the received data that are being evaluated at any given time by rules decision engine module the same received data may be evaluated and indexed differently e.g. indexed spatially temporally or contextually . In various embodiments the rules in a set of rules for a particular user and or group of users and their respective fields will define a plurality of distributed data structures for identifying characteristics of the received data to determine whether the received data is a candidate for one or more of the rules and to minimize indexing requirements for the received data in memory. In various embodiments the rules and their respective fields will define that elements of the received data that are identified as being a candidate for the rules will be placed in particular dimensional indexes e.g. spatial temporal or contextual indexes . In some embodiments rules managed by rules manager and their respective fields will define that one or more received data elements that are identified as being a candidate for the rules are spatially indexed. In some embodiments rules managed by rules manager and their respective fields will define that one or more received data elements that are identified as being a candidate for the rules are temporally or contextually indexed. In various embodiments rules managed by rules manager and their respective fields can define a plurality of distributed data structures for indexing in memory.

Rules decision engine module analyzes received data to identify candidates for satisfying rules to optimize indexing and minimize any persistent storage requirements for the received data. For example rules decision engine module can analyze received data using rules managed by rules manager and their respective fields to identify and disregard spurious or not relevant data for the rules. In various embodiments rules decision engine module can define that the distributed data structures for indexing received data that is identified as being a candidate for the rules in memory can be modified based on the received data that is indicated to be a candidate for the rules.

For example a railroad company can define a rule for predicting where fires will likely start from trains operating on its tracks and define fields such as the hottest times of day e.g. between 12 p.m. and 5 p.m. dry areas wind speeds of greater than 10 knots humidity less than 30 and maps of its train lines. This rule and its respective fields can define that received data is analyzed e.g. filtered to identify data that is a candidate for the rule e.g. train data and to eliminate or disregard data that is not a candidate for the rule provided that it is not a candidate for any other rule of a set of rules managed by rules manager . The rule and its respective fields and the other rules managed by rules manager and their respective fields can also define that particular elements of the received train data that are identified as being a candidate for the rules are spatially indexed that particular objects that have been identified as being a candidate for the rules are temporally indexed and that particular objects that have been identified as being a candidate for the rules are contextually indexed such that they are mapped to contextual attributes in one or more distributed data structures in memory. Each respective rule and its respective fields then identify which indexes are evaluated in memory to identify an event indicating that the respective rule is satisfied. For example the railroad company rule and its fields define that the spatially indexed data temporally indexed data and or contextually indexed data are evaluated e.g. queried to identify an event i.e. all of the definitions of the rule are evaluated as true such that the train data associated with train tracks in dry areas having the defined attributes of wind speed and humidity and operating between 12 p.m. and 5 p.m. identifies an event as satisfying the rule.

In another example an intelligence agency that receives intelligence that a terrorist has sabotaged a commercial 747 s JP 5 fuel supply that is expected to take off between 8 and 11 a.m. Eastern time can define a rule to predict the most likely sabotaged 747 and define fields of plane type airports fuel type 8 and 11 a.m. Eastern time social media keywords of fuel or gas or JP 5 within known locations of terror cells. This rule and its respective fields can define that received data is analyzed e.g. filtered to identify data elements that are candidates for the intelligence agency rule e.g. plane data and to eliminate data not associated with 747s or JP 5 fuel type to maximize disregarding of spurious data and minimize indexing of spurious and or data not capable of satisfying the rule provided that such data is not a candidate for other rules managed by rules manager . The intelligence agency rule and its respective fields and the other rules managed by rules manager and their respective fields can also define that elements of the received plane data that are identified as being a candidate for the rule e.g. plane data and possibly other rules of the set of rules managed by rules manager is contextually indexed such that objects of the received plane data are mapped to contextual attributes in one or more distributed data structures in memory.

In various embodiments rules decision engine module places data elements in distributed data structures in memory with an indicator of each identified rule for which the received data element is a candidate. In various embodiments rules decision engine module places data elements in memory in one or more distributed data structures with an indicator e.g. flag for each rule that the data element is identified as being a candidate. For example rules manager can manage one hundred rules and received data elements may be identified by rules decision engine module as being a candidate for rules and of the defined rules managed by rules manager . Rules decision engine module can place the received data elements with respective indicators e.g. R R R in one or more dimensional distributed data structures in memory. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can in communication with service core and rules manager place the received data elements in memory in respective distributed data structures defined in rules manager for the respective rules for which the received data elements are identified as being a candidate for the rules managed by rules manager for the respective users i . In some embodiments rules decision engine module can place elements of received data in distributed data structures in memory with an indicator e.g. in a spatial temporal or contextual distributed data structure for each respective rule that the received data is identified as being a candidate.

In various embodiments when fields defined for respective rules are modified in rules manager rules decision engine module can also modify a distributed data structure for indexing received data identified as being a candidate for such rules. In some embodiments rules managed by rules manager and their defined data sources can define the type of indexing for spatial temporal or contextual elements of received data identified as being a candidate for the rules and or previously indexed data from such defined data sources. In some embodiments once rules decision engine module has analyzed received data and identified one or more respective rules from rules manager for which the received data is a candidate rules decision engine module can modify indexing for additional received data identified as being a candidate for the rules and or previously indexed data to make further determinations of whether the rule is satisfied.

For example a law enforcement agency may be interested in predicting where a drug drop will occur and can define a rule to correlate airplanes below a certain altitude to ships transiting in area of where a plane went below the certain altitude and can define fields such as the type of airplane type of ship origin of airplane origin of ship within 50 nautical miles over the next three hours etc. This rule and its respective fields and other rules managed by rules manager and their respective fields can define that received data is analyzed e.g. filtered to identify data that is a candidate for the rule e.g. airplane data and to eliminate data not associated with a plane at an altitude below 10 000 feet and minimize evaluating spurious data provided that it is not a candidate for any other rule managed by rules manager . The rule and its respective fields and other rules managed by rules manager and their respective fields can also define that elements of received data that is identified as being a candidate for the rule e.g. plane data is contextually indexed to for example place elements of the data associated with a plane at an altitude below 10 000 feet in contextual distributed data structures in memory based on one or more contextual attributes of the data. In some embodiments rules decision engine module has identified this law enforcement rule and potentially other rules from rules manager for which the received contextually indexed data is a candidate. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can place in memory e.g. in a contextually based distributed data structure the received data that is identified as a candidate with an indicator for this and any other identified respective rule. The identified rule and its defined fields in addition to other rules managed by rules manager and their defined fields can define that additional received data is analyzed to eliminate data not associated within a defined proximity e.g. within 50 nautical miles of the dynamic location e.g. track of the plane at an altitude below 10 000 feet provided that the received data is not a candidate for other rules managed by rules manager and also identifies data meeting such criteria as being a candidate for one or more rules including this law enforcement rule. The law enforcement rule and its respective fields and other rules managed by rules manager and their respective fields can also define that elements of the received data that is identified as being a candidate for the law enforcement rule and potentially other rules is spatially indexed to place elements of data associated within a defined proximity e.g. within 50 nautical miles of the dynamic location e.g. track of the plane at an altitude below 10 000 feet in one or more spatially distributed data structures in memory.

In some embodiments rules decision engine module can identify this law enforcement rule from rules manager for which the received spatially indexed data is a candidate. The law enforcement rule and its defined fields can define that elements of additional received data are analyzed to eliminate data not associated with a ship type within the defined dynamic proximity e.g. within 50 nautical miles of the dynamic location e.g. track of the plane at an altitude below 10 000 feet provided that it is not a candidate for any other rule managed by rules manager . The law enforcement rule and its defined fields and the other rules managed by rules manager and their respective fields can define that elements of the received data that are identified as being a candidate for the law enforcement rule and potentially other rules are contextually indexed to place elements of data with a ship type within the defined dynamic proximity e.g. within 50 nautical miles of the dynamic location e.g. track of the plane at an altitude below 10 000 feet in one or more contextually distributed data structures in memory based on one or more contextual attributes of the data. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can further identify this law enforcement rule from rules manager for which the received spatially and contextually indexed data is a candidate. Rules decision engine module can then evaluate the spatially temporally and or contextually indexed data in memory associated with the rules managed by rules manager including the law enforcement rule to identify events as satisfying one or more of the respective rules in memory. Rules decision engine module can evaluate the spatially temporally and or contextually indexed data to determine whether the law enforcement rule is satisfied i.e. a drug drop between the plane and the ship is likely to occur.

The inventors have determined that such cloud based in memory distributed data structure indexing and data analysis techniques which are not database e.g. SQL database limited require virtual rather than network connections for data analysis processing and retrieval operations and provide index optimization vastly improve and optimize storage processing and time requirements and permit real time rule satisfaction determination to enable predictive decision making. The inventors have further determined that the methods and systems described herein can provide response times to meet a wide variety of industry requirements. For example the methods and systems described herein can provide microsecond response times resulting in component adjustments to avoid equipment malfunction and damage in internal microcontrollers based on industry requirements and real time streaming information received from internal circuits millisecond response times resulting in device and or emergency system adjustments to avoid equipment malfunction and damage in local devices based on industry requirements and real time streaming information received from streaming sources such as sensors second response times resulting in emergency system adjustments to avoid major equipment damage and or small scale blackouts in network devices based on industry requirements and real time streaming information received from power management units minute response times resulting in normal and emergency system adjustments market pricing and demand response to avoid major blackouts for system engineer users based on industry requirements and real time streaming information received from power management units network attached sensors and advanced metering infrastructure hours response times for power pricing and demand response for electricity consumer users and electricity market participants to avoid blackouts brownouts based on industry requirements and real time streaming information received from power management units network attached sensors advanced metering infrastructure weather and event feeds and longer response times e.g. days weeks etc. 

In various embodiments once rules decision engine module has analyzed received data identified one or more respective rules from rules manager for which the received data is a candidate and indexed the received data in memory as a function of the managed by rules manager rules decision engine module can evaluate additional data to identify elements of the additional data that are candidates for one or more rules managed by rules manager and eliminate or disregard elements of data that are determined to not be a candidate for any of the rules managed by rules manager index the data elements e.g. place in dimensional distributed data structure in memory that are identified as being candidates for one or more rules managed by rules manager as a function of the one or more rules and their respective fields and then determine whether the respective one or more rules are satisfied. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can evaluate data elements placed in distributed data structures in distributed working memory to determine whether the respective one or more rules are satisfied and identify events as satisfying the one or more rules. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can evaluate spatial temporal and contextual data elements placed in data structures in distributed working memory to determine whether one or more rules managed by rules manager are satisfied. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can index events identified as satisfying one or more rules based on temporal spatial or contextual elements. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can store events in persistent storage. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can evaluate data elements placed in distributed data structures in distributed working memory and or indexed events to determine whether one or more rules are satisfied.

For example a security company providing security at a forward operating base can create a rule to provide notification to the base security automatically deploy redirect the FMV or SIGINT assets in closest proximity to the base and automatically engage physical security barriers at all points of entrance to the base if a vehicle from a defined place of origin moves at a speed of more than 25 miles an hour within five miles of any perimeter of the base between 12 a.m. and 6 a.m.

Rules decision engine module can evaluate received data and or additional data e.g. previously temporally spatially or contextually indexed data per a rule defined distributed data structure to identify respective data elements as a candidate for the security company rule e.g. data with a temporal element of between 12 a.m. and 6 a.m. and place such data identified as being a candidate for the rule or other rules managed by rules manager in a temporal index e.g. temporal data structure in distributed working memory . Rules decision engine module can further evaluate received data and or additional data e.g. previously temporally spatially or contextually indexed data per a rule defined distributed data structure to identify respective data received with a spatial element of moving toward the base at a speed of more than 25 miles an hour within five miles of the base perimeter and place such data elements in memory in a spatial index e.g. spatial data structure in distributed working memory . Rules decision engine module can evaluate received data and or additional data e.g. previously temporally spatially or contextually indexed data per a rule defined distributed data structure to identify respective data elements as a candidate for the security company rule e.g. data with a contextual element of the defined place of origin and place such data identified as being a candidate for the rule or other rules managed by rules manager in a contextual index e.g. contextual data structure in distributed working memory . In some embodiments the respective data elements are indexed with an indicator e.g. R Base index entry to identify the respective data elements as being a candidate for the security company rule. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can further evaluate received data and or additional data to disregard data that is a not a candidate for the rules managed by rules manager based on the rule fields and the temporal spatial and contextual elements of the data.

Rules decision engine module can evaluate whether the indexed data satisfies the rules managed by rules manager including the security company rule i.e. a vehicle moving toward the base within 5 miles of the base perimeter between the hours of 12 a.m. and 6 a.m. originated from an identified place of origin . If the security company rule is determined to be satisfied rules decision engine module can identify an event as having satisfied the rule and can initiate the automatic notifications defined in the rule in communication with predictive service core N communications interface module and user interface . In various embodiments rules decision engine module can index events based on spatial temporal or contextual elements in memory and or store events in persistent storage for further rule evaluation. For example rules decision engine module can index an event based on spatial elements e.g. vehicle moving toward the base at a speed of more than 25 miles an hour within 5 miles of the base perimeter and or contextual elements e.g. place of vehicle origin in memory to evaluate whether one or more additional rules e.g. other security company rules are satisfied.

In various embodiments rules decision engine module can create a relationship between one or more spatial temporal or contextual elements of indexed data. For example rules decision engine module can create a relationship between a spatial element of received data identified as being a candidate for the security company s rule described above vehicle moving toward the base at a speed of more than 25 miles an hour within 5 miles of the base perimeter that is spatially indexed as a function of the rules for which it is a candidate including the security company s rules and a contextual element of received data identified as being a candidate for one or more of the same rules place of vehicle origin that is contextually indexed as a function of the rules for which it is a candidate including the security company s rules . In some embodiments the relationship is a logical association of the data elements. Any suitable relationship to associate the data can be used. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can create a relationship between indexed data that is evaluated as being a candidate for multiple rules of a rule set for a user and other indexed data that is evaluated as being a candidate for the same rules of the same rule set for the same user or the same group of users. In various embodiments rules decision engine module can store the created relationship e.g. in a distributed data structure in memory. In some embodiments rules decision engine module will automatically create such relationships. In other embodiments rules decision engine module will suggest creation of relationships to a user via user interface . For example rules decision engine module can suggest the relationship described above to the security company users but require acceptance by a user to create the relationship and or store the relationship in memory.

In various embodiments rules decision engine module can suggest a modification to a rule based on one or more created relationships. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can suggest editing an existing rule or creating a new rule based on an existing rule. For example rules decision engine module can suggest a modification to the rule for the security company providing security at the forward operating base based on a created relationship between a spatial element of indexed data identified as being a candidate for the security company s rule described above vehicle moving toward the base at a speed of more than 25 miles an hour within 5 miles of the base perimeter and a contextual element of indexed data identified as being a candidate for the same rule place of vehicle origin . Rules decision engine module can suggest creating a new rule based on the existing rule to modify one or more temporal fields and one or more contextual fields to provide the same notification when the particular vehicle previously detected as satisfying the rule moves at a speed of greater than 20 miles an hour within five miles of any perimeter of the base between 6 a.m. and 12 a.m. Rules decision engine module can also suggest modifying the existing rule to modify one or more temporal fields and one or more spatial fields to provide the same notification when any vehicle from a defined place of origin moves at a speed of more than 25 miles an hour within three miles of any perimeter of the base between 12 a.m. and 8 a.m. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can provide a rule suggestion to a user having a rule associated with the created relationship. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can provide a rule suggestion to one or more users where the created relationship is associated with a rule defined by a different user.

In various embodiments rules decision engine module can provide an indication that a rule is satisfied. In various embodiments indications based on rule satisfaction are defined for a rule e.g. via user interface . In some embodiments can be the same for a set of rules or a subset of a set of rules for a user. In some embodiments notifications can be different for each rule of a set of rules. In some embodiments indications can be provided to only specified users of all of the users that are associated with a particular subscription and predictive service core N of cloud . Referring now to cloud computing environment can also include communications interface module communicating with predictive service core N rules decision engine module and or user interface . Communications interface module allows software and data to be transferred between service core N and or streaming data module and or static data module and or external devices including for example devices associated with external sensors and or external assets . In various embodiments communications interface module provides machine to machine MTM communications such as for example in an Internet of Things IoT infrastructure. In various embodiments communications interface module provides indications e.g. notifications communications and or signals to external devices based on indication specifications defined for rules created and defined in rules manager for the user and when rules decision engine module provides an indication that a rule has been satisfied and or an event has been created and or identified.

Examples of communications interface module can include a modem Ethernet card wireless network card a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card or the like. Software and data transferred via communications interface module can be in the form of signals which can be electronic electromagnetic optical or the like that are capable of being received by communications interface module . These signals can be provided to communications interface module via a communications path e.g. channel which can be implemented using wire cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link and other communication channels.

Any suitable indication for rule satisfaction can be provided. For example a result can be displayed based on the rule e.g. satisfaction of the rule is displayed on a user display via user interface or a display can be changed based on the rule e.g. user display can be changed from monitoring streaming data to a subset of the screen showing a location where the rule was determined to be satisfied via user interface . In various embodiments a recommended action sequence can be displayed based on the rule e.g. via user interface . In some embodiments an action sequence can be initiated based on satisfaction of the rule. Any suitable action sequence can be recommended or initiated and is based on a user s definitions provided for the rule. For example the action sequence can include collecting additional data having one or more spatial temporal and contextual elements queuing a data sensor evaluating additional indexed data having one or more spatial temporal and contextual elements evaluating indexed events evaluating indexed data as a function of a suggested rule deploying an asset rescheduling an asset tipping a data sensor transmitting a message initiating a new data stream changing a display and other suitable actions sequences. In some embodiments rules decision engine module can communicate an indication that a respective rule has been satisfied to communications interface module and predictive service core N and communications interface module provides indications e.g. notifications communications and or signals to external devices based on indication specifications e.g. based on notification fields defined for the respective rule created and defined in rules manager for the user.

In various embodiments an alert can be provided based on the rule e.g. alert provided to a user display via user interface . In some embodiments a notification message based on the rule can be transmitted e.g. to an external device via communications interface module . Any suitable notification message can be provided and is based on a user s definitions provided for the rule. In some embodiments the notification message is a default notification message set by for example the administrator for predictive service core N. For example the notification message indicating satisfaction of a respective rule initiated by rules decision engine module and transmitted via communications interface module can be an electronic mail message a telephone call an alphanumeric page a numeric page a text message a short messaging service message a video message a voice message and other suitable notification messages.

In various embodiments forensics module manages forensics operations on received data from streaming data module and or static data module including recording user defined data streams generated alerts or notifications generated instances of rules being satisfied generated instances of rule candidates being identified etc. In various embodiments forensics module manages forensics operations on data identified as being a candidate for one or more rules. In various embodiments forensics module manages forensics operations on indexed data. In various embodiments forensics module stores data identified as being a candidate for one or more rules or indexed data in persistent storage. In various embodiments forensics module can record data for a predetermined or preset e.g. service provider default period of time or for a user defined period of time received via user interface . In some embodiments forensics module can store recorded data in a database such as a NoSQL database.

In some embodiments forensics module can store recorded data in a non transitory tangible machine readable storage medium. The non transitory tangible storage medium can be a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage medium a memory device e.g. flash or random access memory a hard disk drive a tape drive an optical drive such as but not limited to CDROM DVD or BDROM or the like or a combination of one or more of them. In various embodiments forensics module stores data identified as being a candidate for one or more rules or indexed data in persistent storage. In various embodiments forensic module manages playback operations such that stored data is provided as an input to rules decision engine module to perform all or some of the functions described above for data received from streaming data module and or static data module using rules from rules manager . In various embodiments forensic module manages playback operations and permits users to speed up or slow down playback of the stored data. For example forensic module can manage playback operations to permit a user to visually review 6 months of stored data via user interface in a significantly shorter period of time such as 6 hours or 60 minutes. In some embodiments results based on using stored data provided by forensics module can be used to perform trend analysis create rules and or revise existing rules such that the associated indices for such rules and or spatial temporal or contextual indices for received data identified as being a candidate for such rules can be further optimized. In some embodiments a user can use data and trends provided by operations managed by forensics module to build up a knowledge base of information.

For example a user e.g. a bus company may want to know why they consistently receive complaints that one particular bus line is late along a particular bus route and at a particular time of day. There are a wide variety of factors that may contribute to the bus being late including traffic congestion the driver making unauthorized stops weather construction etc. A user can also select particular data sources to build up a knowledge base of historical data based on these determined factors. For example a user can select police report feeds construction feeds weather feeds traffic information feeds driver social media feeds etc. to provide inputs to streaming data module and static data module . A user can then define a period e.g. six months for forensics module to perform recording operations on the selected data feeds. A user can create rules via user interface designed to determine why the bus line is consistently late in arriving at bus stops along the particular route. For example a bus company can create respective rules to provide an alert when any bus on XY5 line is more than 10 minutes behind schedule between Point A and Point B and between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. or between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. and radio station or social media or police scanner report a traffic accident within 5 miles of any bus location or thunderstorms or snow showers are occurring or social media or radio station or city planning reporting road closure within 10 miles of any location on bus route or any bus driver job clock reporting late arrival or any bus location more than 6 blocks off route respectively. In various embodiments rules decision engine module can identify received data that is a candidate for one or more rules managed by rules manager including the bus company rules and forensics module can record the data that is identified as being a candidate for the rules.

In various embodiments forensics module provides a playback feature to user interface such that a user can select to playback information from one or more selected data sources from persistent storage and or distributed data structures in memory. For example a user can play back selected full motion video recorded using forensics module while having rules decision engine module applies rules defined in rules manager to selected data in real time. In various embodiments a user can build up a knowledge base of selected information for a predetermined period of time and apply rules including spatial temporal and contextual fields while playing back data including spatial temporal and contextual elements stored in the knowledge base to perform trend or pattern analysis.

Referring now to illustrative screenshots according to some embodiments of the present subject matter are provided. At illustrative devices are provided having a user interface to interface with cloud according to some embodiments. As shown in a touch screen display is provided. In some embodiments user can provide input to the computer using a keyboard pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball or other kinds of devices for interaction with user interface . Input from the user can be received in any suitable form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In the illustrated embodiment a device including the touch screen display is provided. As described above device can include any suitable device such as for example a microprocessor based computer terminal a mobile device a kiosk a personal digital assistant a cellular phone a tablet an electronic personal planner a slate tablet a booklet computer a convertible notebook a phablet a smart phone a command and control system having a common operational picture COP or other situational awareness display an automobile cockpit a human wearable computing device etc. For example an illustrative touch screen display can be any suitable touch screen display. For example touch screen display can be a cathode ray tube CRT touch screen display a liquid crystal touch screen display LCD a LCD resistive touch screen display a LCD capacitive touch screen display a LCD multi touch capable touch screen display etc. In some embodiments display is a display that is enabled by an input of the user that is non tactile.

In the illustrated examples of display contains a data map selectable parameter which enables a user i to toggle between displaying a respective map and displaying respective data e.g. data from one or more streaming data sources and or data from one more static data sources from predictive service core . Any suitable selectable parameter e.g. inline image can be provided to toggle between various user interfaces including for example a portion to toggle between rule creation rule modification streaming data map static data scrolling alert view playback video help chat etc. user interfaces and for a service provider to display various services provided at cloud via user interface . In the illustrated examples a map display is selected at data map selectable parameter to display map data e.g. map data selected for one or more rules defined by a user in rules manager . Various mapping functions can be provided to the user when a map display is selected at data map selectable parameter including for example zooming function panning functions e.g. absolute or relative north south east west up down left right etc. map type selection e.g. maps defined by the user for a particular rules maps with or more overlays satellite imagery map grids navigational charts etc. including a drop down or other selection type menu e.g. spin box text box etc. and any suitable mapping functions.

As shown in display can include various menus for selection by the user to display various features provided by predictive service core N including for example forensics functions to enable the user to interface with forensics module and provide various forensics based services to the user such as playback services trend pattern analysis services etc. rule functions to enable the user to interface with rules manager and provide various rule based services to the user such as creating new rule services editing or modifying existing rule services and deleting existing rule services active static data services to enable the user to interface with active data sources including in connection with rules manager rules decision engine module and or predictive service core N and provide various static data services such as viewing active static data selected for one or more rules defined by the user viewing active static data that is overlaid by streaming data determined to be a candidate for one or more rules defined by the user viewing active static data that is overlaid by streaming data that is determined to have satisfied a rule etc. active streaming data services to enable the user to interface with streaming data sources including in connection with rules manager rules decision engine module and or predictive service core N and provide various streaming data services such as viewing active streaming data selected for one or more rules defined by the user viewing active streaming data that is determined to be a candidate for one or more rules defined by the user viewing active streaming data that is determined to have satisfied a rule etc. notification services not shown to enable the user to interface with communications interface including in connection with rules manager and or rules decision engine module and provide various notification services such as defining and or modifying notifications for new or existing rules viewing one or more notifications of rules being satisfied etc. Display can include any suitable menu for displaying and providing a user interface for one or more services provided by predictive service core N.

Referring now to an example of a user interface to interface with rules manager and create a rule using device and via display is provided. In various embodiments a user interface for creating a rule can be provided when a user selects new on rule function of . In the illustrated example a user is provided with various fields to input information to define the fields of the rule including multiple spatial temporal and contextual data fields for the rule. The user can input information into one or more of the fields using any suitable method including for example a spin box a text box for tactile entry by a user such as for example by a touch screen keyboard that is provided in response to a user selection of a text box or a keyboard that is part of a device e.g. or peripheral to the device e.g. a calendar inline image that can provide a touch screen calendar in response to a user selection of the calendar inline image a clock inline image that can provide a touch screen clock in response to a user selection of the clock inline image a drop down or other selection type menu etc. In the illustrated example a user can input a rule name for example using a rule name selectable parameter that can be for example a text box activated by a touch screen keyboard or keyboard peripheral to device input and select data sources for example using live and static data source selectable parameter to select data sources having spatial temporal and contextual data elements for the new rule input one or more temporal fields for the new rule for example using one or more temporal field selectable parameters input one or more spatial fields for the new rule for example using one or more spatial field selectable parameters input one or more contextual fields for the new rule for example using one or more contextual field selectable parameters input a notification field for the new rule using a notification field selectable parameter not shown and or input additional suitable fields using any suitable selectable parameter.

Referring now to a computer implemented method of enabling predictive decision making is provided. At block a first set of rules is received. In various embodiments a first set of rules can include rules associated with and defined by a user via user interface and communicated to rules manager . In various embodiments the first set of rules can be stored in a rules database of rules manager associated with a user or a group of users. At block first data comprising spatial temporal and contextual elements is received. For example first data can be received in cloud via streaming data module and static data module and can include spatial contextual and temporal parameters. In some embodiments a user can define live and static data sources for the first set of rules using user interface e.g. . In some embodiments the first data can be received from one or more sensors. In some embodiments the one or more sensors can provide a real time information feed such as for example a weather air traffic vehicular traffic video audio asset location shipping seismic rail global positioning signals intelligence financial market social media or other suitable real time information feed. In some embodiments each of the one or more sensors provide a real time information feed for a dynamic e.g. moving in space or time source.

At block the first data is evaluated e.g. via rules decision engine module and each rule of the first set for which the received first data is determined to be a candidate is identified. At block if first data is not determined to be a candidate for any rule of the first set of rules it is disregarded. In various embodiments spatial temporal and or contextual elements of the first received data that is identified as being a candidate for one or more rules of the first set is indexed in memory e.g. placed in a data structure in distributed working memory as a function of the one or more rules. In some embodiments the elements are indexed with an indicator of each identified rule for which the received first data is a candidate. In some embodiments rules manager creates a distributed data structure in memory for one or more of the respective rules of the first set. In various embodiments the first data is evaluated to determine whether it is a candidate for the one or more respective rules using the created data structures. In various embodiments a rule and its respective fields can define its distributed data structure for evaluating received data to determine whether the rule is satisfied to optimize indexing operations and minimize storage requirements. At blocks if the first received data is determined to be a candidate for one or more rules of the first set the first received data is indexed by its temporal spatial and contextual elements as a function of the identified one or more rules. In various embodiments each identified rule defines the respective indexing for the data elements identified as candidates for the identified rules. In some embodiments each identified rule and the type of data and or data element content defines the respective indexing for the data elements identified as candidates for the identified rules In various embodiments one or more spatial temporal or contextual data structures are dynamically created in memory as a function of the identified rules for which the received data is a candidate. In some embodiments if the first received data is determined to be a candidate for one or more rules e.g. rule rule and rule the elements of the first received data are indexed in memory with an indicator of each identified rule for which the received first data is a candidate e.g. rule rule and rule .

For example a law enforcement agency can define a set of rules for various services it provides for example using user interface and rules manager . This first set of rules can be received into the cloud and stored for example in a database operated using rules manager . For example one rule of the first set of rules e.g. Rule DD can be defined to predict where a drug drop will occur e.g. correlate aircraft below a certain altitude to ships transiting in area of where a plane went below the certain altitude and can define fields such as the type of airplane e.g. single engine aircraft Cessna Adam type of boat e.g. power boat cigarette boat origin of airplane e.g. Mexico origin of ship Florida California Texas Louisiana altitude of less than 10 000 feet within 50 nautical miles over the next twenty four hours etc. Data can be received into the cloud having one or more spatial temporal or contextual elements from one or more streaming data sources e.g. air traffic radar TFR shipping radar AIS coastal sensors UAV FMV drones FAA data feeds U.S. Coast Guard data feeds intelligence data feeds etc. and one or more static data sources e.g. nautical charts aviation charts etc. . First data can be received that consists of real time reporting of various aircraft in flight.

For example one rule of the first set of rules e.g. Rule DP can be defined to predict where dropped drugs will be picked up by a boat e.g. correlate track of aircraft below a certain altitude with a track of one or more boats transiting in an area of where the boat track will pass within an automatically adjustable predetermined distance e.g. adjustable range based on current wind sea state etc. updates such that the boat would pick up any drug packages dropped by the plane into the water at any point along the track of the aircraft based on determined distance and direction of a potentially floating dropped drug package within an identified date time window e.g. 6 hours and can define fields such as the type of airplane e.g. single engine aircraft Cessna Adam type of boat e.g. power boat cigarette boat origin of airplane e.g. Mexico origin of ship Florida California Texas Louisiana altitude of less than 10 000 feet within 50 nautical miles track of the airplane track of the boat wind speed wind direction surface current speed surface current direction weather sea state date time window six hour window from 1900 0100 on consecutive days etc. Data can be received into the cloud having one or more spatial temporal or contextual elements from one or more streaming data sources e.g. air traffic radar TFR shipping radar AIS coastal sensors UAV FMV drones FAA data feeds U.S. Coast Guard data feeds intelligence data feeds weather sensors streaming feeds NOAA data feeds etc. and one or more static data sources e.g. nautical charts aviation charts etc. . First data can be received that consists of real time reporting of the respective tracks of potential drug packages dropped in the water beneath the respective tracks of various aircraft in flight flying below 10 000 feet that is automatically adjustable based on weather and oceanographic conditions including surface current speed and direction and wind speed and direction.

Rules decision engine module can evaluate the received first data to identify each rule of the first set of rules for which the received first data is a candidate. For example rules decision engine module can evaluate the received first data to identify Rule DD if the received first data is relevant or responsive to one or more fields defined for Rule DD e.g. defined type of airplane defined type of boat defined origin of airplane defined origin of ship defined altitude of less than 10 000 feet defined spatial relationship of within 50 nautical miles defined temporal field of over the next twenty four hours etc. . For example rules decision engine module can evaluate the received first data to identify Rule DP if the received first data is relevant or responsive to one or more fields defined for Rule DP e.g. defined type of airplane defined type of boat defined origin of airplane defined origin of ship defined altitude of less than 10 000 feet defined spatial relationship of within 50 nautical miles defined date time window etc. . Rule DD and or Rule DP can define in rules manager that received first data is evaluated to eliminate data not associated with a defined type of plane at an altitude below 10 000 feet and minimize indexing of spurious data in memory provided that the received first data is not a candidate for any other rule managed by rules manager . Rules decision engine module can disregard received first data and not index in memory received first data that is not a candidate of rule DD or rule DP or any other rule of the first set of rules and filter out data that is not associated with the defined type of aircraft or that has an altitude of greater than 10 000 feet provided that data is not a candidate for any other rule managed by rules manager . Rules decision engine module can contextually index e.g. place in a contextually distributed data structure defined by rule DD and other rules for which the received first data is a candidate in memory the contextual attributes of the received first data data that is associated with the defined type of aircraft and is traveling at an altitude less than 10 000 feet . In some embodiments contextual elements of the received first data can be indexed with an indicator e.g. R DD for Rule DD or e.g. R DP for Rule DP .

The respective received data can be received out of synchronization temporally but within a date time window defined for the respective rule e.g. Rule DD . For example the rule and one or more of its respective fields can define a dynamically changing date time window based on various received data elements including by way of example time speed of plane or boat course of speed or boat track of speed or boat current wind weather patterns etc. to synchronize the received data. For example the respective rule can be defined to predict where a drug drop will occur e.g. Rule DD or where a pickup of dropped drugs will occur Rule DP e.g. correlate track of aircraft below a certain altitude received at a first date and time e.g. June 29 at 2300 with a track of one or more boats transiting in an area of where the plane track will intersect and or pass within a predetermined distance e.g. less than 1 nautical mile nm a boat track at a second date and or time e.g. June 30 at 0200 but within an identified date time window e.g. 6 hours and as a function of receiving data on wind speed wind direction current speed current direction weather patterns etc. during the time window . In various embodiments the identified rule and its defined fields can define that spatial and or contextual elements of received data indexed in memory can be temporally synchronized with spatial and or contextual elements of other received data based on location course speed wind speed current tide and other atmospheric conditions e.g. gulf stream conditions determined at respective points in time.

With reference now to a computer implemented method of enabling predictive decision making is provided. At block a first set of rules is provided as described above for block . At block second data including spatial temporal and contextual elements is received. For example in some embodiments a user can define live and static data sources for the first set of rules using user interface e.g. . In some embodiments static data associated with the first set of rules is received and one or more spatial elements of the received second data are related to the received static data. At block the second data is evaluated e.g. via rules decision engine module and each rule of the first set for which the received second data is determined to be a candidate is identified. At block if second received data is not determined to be a candidate for any rule of the first set of rules it is disregarded. In various embodiments spatial temporal or contextual elements of the second received data that is identified as being a candidate for one or more rules of the first set is indexed in memory as a function of each identified rule for which the second received data is determined to be a candidate. In some embodiments the respective elements are indexed with an indicator of each identified rule for which the received second data is a candidate. At blocks if the second received data is determined to be a candidate for one or more rules of the first set the second received data is indexed by its temporal spatial and contextual elements as a function of the identified one or more rules.

Referring now to a computer implemented method of enabling predictive decision making is provided. At blocks and first received data and second received data determined to be a candidate for one or more rules of the first set is indexed in memory by its respective spatial temporal or contextual elements as a function of the one or more rules. At block where rule is one of the rules for which the received first data and received second data is identified as being a candidate the indexed first and second data elements are evaluated in memory to determine if rule is satisfied i.e. identify an event as satisfying rule . For example rules decision engine module can evaluate the indexed first and second data elements in memory to determine if the respective rule is satisfied. At block if no events are identified as satisfying rule the evaluation of indexed data continues. At block an indication that Rule is satisfied is provided. For example if rules decision engine module determines that a rule e.g. rule is satisfied based on its evaluation of the spatially temporally and or contextually indexed elements of the first and second data rules decision engine module and communications interface module can communicate an indication that the respective rule has been satisfied. In various embodiments notification fields are input by the user via user interface during the rule creation and or editing process.

At block where rule is one of the rules for which the received first data and received second data is identified as being a candidate the indexed first and second data elements are evaluated in memory to determine if rule is satisfied i.e. identify an event as satisfying rule . At block if no events are identified as satisfying rule the evaluation of indexed data continues. At block if rule is determined to be satisfied an action is taken. For example if rules decision engine module determines that a rule e.g. rule is satisfied based on its evaluation of the spatially temporally and or contextually indexed elements of the first and second data rules decision engine module and communications interface module can take an action based on the respective rule being satisfied. In various embodiments notification fields including fields to define an action automatically taken or recommended upon satisfaction of a respective rule e.g. rule are input by the user via user interface during the rule creation and or editing process. For example an action automatically taken and or recommended to a user can include displaying a result based on the rule changing a display based on the rule providing an alert based on the rule transmitting a notification message based on the rule collecting additional data having one or more of a spatial temporal and contextual elements queuing a data sensor deploying an asset rescheduling an asset transmitting a message evaluating additional indexed data having one or more spatial temporal and contextual elements evaluating indexed data as a function of a suggested rule tipping a data sensor transmitting a message initiating a new data stream changing a display and other suitable actions.

At block where rule N is one of the rules for which the received first data and received second data is identified as being a candidate the indexed first and second data elements are evaluated in memory to determine if rule N is satisfied i.e. identify an event as satisfying rule N . At block if no events are identified as satisfying rule N the evaluation of indexed data continues. At block if rule N is determined to be satisfied an event is identified. At block the identified event is indexed as a function of its spatial temporal and or contextual elements. At block the identified event is stored in persistent storage. In some embodiments if rule N is determined to be satisfied a relationship is created. For example rules decision engine module can create a relationship between two or more elements of the indexed data if it determines that a rule of the first set e.g. rule N is satisfied.

For example second data can be received into cloud that consists of real time reporting of various ships and boats in transit e.g. from one or more streaming data sources into streaming data module . Rules decision engine module can evaluate the received second data to identify each rule of the first set of rules for which the received second data is a candidate. For example rules decision engine module can evaluate the received second data to identify Rule DD if the received second data is relevant or responsive to one or more fields defined for Rule DD . Based on rules decision engine module s evaluation of the received second data received second data not associated within a defined proximity e.g. within 50 nautical miles of the dynamic location e.g. track of the plane s operating at an altitude below 10 000 feet can be disregarded or eliminated to minimize indexing operations of spurious data in memory provided it is not a candidate for other rules managed by rules manager . Rules decision engine module can disregard received second data and not index received second data that is not a candidate of rule DD or any other rule of the first set of rules and filter out data that is not associated with the defined proximity e.g. 50 nautical miles to the planes s operating at an altitude below 10 000 feet. The received second data identified as bring a candidate for Rule DD and other rules of the first set can be indexed by its spatial temporal or contextual elements as a function of the definitions of Rule DD and the definitions of the other rules for which the received second data is a candidate . For example Rule DD and the other rules for which the received second data is identified as a candidate can define in rules manager that spatial elements of data received into cloud that is associated within a defined proximity e.g. within 50 nautical miles of the dynamic location e.g. track of the plane s operating at an altitude below 10 000 feet is spatially indexed in memory e.g. place in a spatially distributed data structure defined by rule DD and other rules for which the received first data is a candidate by rules decision engine module . In some embodiments rules decision engine module can index in memory spatial elements of the received second data with an indicator R DD.

For example rules decision engine module can evaluate the received second data to identify Rule DP if the received second data is relevant or responsive to one or more fields defined for Rule DP . Based on rules decision engine module s evaluation of the received second data received second data not associated within a defined proximity e.g. within 10 nautical miles of the dynamic location e.g. track based on weather and oceanographic conditions including surface current speed and direction and wind speed and direction of the potential drug packages dropped in the water beneath the respective tracks of various aircraft operating at an altitude below 10 000 feet can be disregarded to minimize indexing of spurious data in memory. Rules decision engine module can disregard received second data and not index received second data that is not a candidate of rule DP or any other rule of the first set of rules and filter out data that is not associated with the defined proximity e.g. 10 nautical miles to the potential drug packages dropped in the water beneath the respective tracks of various aircraft operating at an altitude below 10 000 feet. Rules decision engine module can spatially index e.g. place in a spatially distributed data structure defined by rule DP and other rules for which the received second data is a candidate in memory the spatial elements of the received second data associated within a defined proximity e.g. within 10 nautical miles of the dynamic location e.g. track based on weather and oceanographic conditions including surface current speed and direction and wind speed and direction of the potential drug packages dropped in the water beneath the respective tracks of various aircraft operating at an altitude below 10 000 feet . In some embodiments spatial elements of the received second data can be indexed with an indicator R DP.

Rules decision engine module can evaluate the contextually indexed first data attributes data that is associated with the defined type of aircraft and is traveling at an altitude less than 10 000 feet and the spatially indexed second received data elements boat transiting within 50 nautical miles of the dynamic location of the plane s operating at an altitude below 10 000 feet to determine whether Rule DD is satisfied i.e. a drug drop between the plane and the ship is likely to occur and to determine whether other rules for which the received first and second data is a candidate are satisfied. Rules decision engine module can evaluate whether the spatial temporal and contextual data elements of the indexed first data and indexed second data meet all of the definitions of the required fields of Rule DD . Rules decision engine module can identify an event that the spatial temporal and contextual data elements of the indexed first data and indexed second data establish that the aircraft operating below 10 000 feet originated in Mexico and is a Cessna that the boat within 50 nautical miles of the aircraft is a power boat and originated in California and that the data is real time occurring within the defined temporal definitions of the rule . Based on this evaluation rules decision engine module can provide an indication that Rule DD is satisfied. Rules decision engine module can provide an alert or transmit a notification message to the law enforcement agency users of the imminent drug drop can change a display at a device of the law enforcement agency users can automatically deploy an asset e.g. UAV in close proximity to the location of the aircraft and ship to collect intelligence and or display FMV of the ship and or aircraft etc.

Rules Decision engine module can evaluate the spatially temporally and or contextually indexed first data elements in memory dynamic data that is associated with the track of a potential drug package dropped beneath a defined type of aircraft that is traveling at an altitude less than 10 000 feet and the spatially indexed second data elements boat transiting within 10 nautical miles of the dynamic location of the track of the potential drug package dropped beneath the aircraft operating at an altitude below 10 000 feet to determine whether Rule DP is satisfied i.e. a drug pickup by a boat of a prior drop from the plane is likely to occur and other rules for which the first and second received data is a candidate . Rules decision engine module can evaluate whether the spatial temporal and contextual data elements of the indexed first data and indexed second data meet all of the definitions of the required fields of Rule DP. . Rules decision engine module can identify an event that the spatial temporal and contextual data elements of the indexed first data and indexed second data establish that the aircraft that operated below 10 000 feet between 1900 and 1915 originated in Mexico is a Cessna that the boat within 10 nautical miles of the track of the potential drug packages determined by weather and oceanographic conditions including surface current speed and direction and wind speed and direction dropped between 1900 and 1915 from the aircraft is a power boat originated in California and has a track that will intersect based on the boat course and speed within 1 nm of the track of one or more of the potential drug packages during the defined time window 6 hours of 1900 1915 and that the data is real time occurring within the defined temporal definitions of the rule . Based on this evaluation rules decision engine module can provide an indication that Rule DP is satisfied. Rules decision engine module can provide an alert or transmit a notification message to the law enforcement agency users of the imminent drug package pickup can change a display at a device of the law enforcement agency users can automatically deploy an asset e.g. UAV in close proximity to the location of the boat and potential drug package to collect intelligence and or display FMV of the boat and or potential drug package etc. In some embodiments based on this evaluation rules decision engine module can index the identified event by its spatial temporal and or contextual data elements and can use this indexed event to evaluate whether one or more additional rules are satisfied. In some embodiments based on this evaluation rules decision engine module can store the identified event in persistent storage.

Rules Decision engine module can create a relationship in memory between one or more respective spatial temporal or contextual elements of the indexed first data e.g. place of origin of the plane Cabo San Lucas Mexico and one or more respective spatial temporal or contextual elements of the indexed second data e.g. place of origin of the boat San Diego Mexico and can store the created relationship in memory e.g. in a data structure defined for Rule DD and other rules for which the received first and second data is a candidate in distributed working memory . Rules decision engine module and rules manager can provide a rule suggestion to the law enforcement agency users e.g. via user interface based on the created relationship e.g. create a new rule to monitor and collect intelligence on ultra light aircraft and power boats operating out of these two locations .

Rules Decision engine module can determine that the spatial temporal and contextual data elements of the indexed first data and second data establish that the aircraft operating below 10 000 feet originated in Cuba and is a Cessna that the boat within 50 nautical miles of the aircraft is a power boat and originated in Florida and that the data is real time occurring within the defined temporal definitions of Rule DD . Based on this evaluation rules decision engine module can determine that Rule DD is not satisfied. As shown in at block if rules decision engine module determines that Rule DD and other rules for which the received first and second data is identified as being a candidate is not satisfied rules decision engine module will continue evaluating indexed data. Rules decision engine module can create a relationship between one or more respective spatial temporal or contextual elements of the indexed first data e.g. place of origin of the plane Havana Mexico and one or more respective spatial temporal or contextual elements of the indexed second data e.g. place of origin of the boat Miami Fla. and can store the created relationship e.g. in a data structure defined for Rule DD and other rules for which the received first and second data is identified as being a candidate in distributed working memory . Rules decision engine module and rules manager can provide a rule suggestion to the law enforcement agency users e.g. via user interface based on the created relationship e.g. create a new rule to modify the place of origin of aircraft to include locations in Cuba .

With reference now to where a computer implemented method of enabling predictive decision making is provided second data is determined to be a candidate for rules A Z including Rule N at block . At block second data determined to be a candidate for such rules is indexed by its spatial temporal or contextual elements as a function of the identified rules A Z and their respective definitions. At block rule N is determined to be satisfied using indexed second data determined to be a candidate for rules A Z block and indexed first data determined to be a candidate for rules A Z block . In various embodiments the indexed first data determined to be a candidate for rules A Z was previously indexed by one or more of its spatial temporal or contextual elements. At block the second data determined to be a candidate for rules A Z is indexed by one or more of its temporal spatial or contextual elements as a function of the identified rules. In some embodiments elements of the second data determined to be a candidate for rules A Z can be placed in a distributed data structure in memory with an indicator of rules A Z. In the illustrated embodiment at block a relationship between one or more respective spatial temporal or contextual elements of the indexed and stored first and second data determined to be a candidate for rules A Z is created. At block the created relationship is stored e.g. in a distributed data structure in memory. In various embodiments a rule suggestion is provided e.g. via rules manager to a user via user interface based on the created relationship. For example a suggestion to modify an existing rule can be provided based on the created relationship. In various embodiments the created relationship can be used to modify an existing rule of the same user or group of users. In some embodiments a rule suggestion can be provided based on the created relationship to a different user or to an administrator.

For example a user can define a rule to determine his or her favorite beach and may identify and define fields such as water temperature common air temperature single women between 25 and 30 active on social media on the beach wave height time of day sand type and water visibility for the respective rule via user interface . The user understands these factors to be factors important to his decision of a favorite beach. The inventors have determined that the system and method described herein can analyze a user s identified and defined fields for a particular rule and created relationships for the user and or different users for similar rules to provide rule suggestions to a user to improve a user s selection of fields for a rule and definitions associated with those fields and proactively assist the user in identifying what factors are important to the user. For example a relationship may have been created between time of day specified by the user for the beach rule and highest rated outdoor bars restaurants within 3 blocks of a beach for one or more other users. Rules decision engine module in communication with rules manager can suggest a modification to the user s rule to include this field and or suggest a definition for input for this field by the user.

In another example a user can define a rule to manage when to carry his or her inhaler based on his current location air quality air temperature humidity time of day between traveling to and from the office location of public transit routes and location of office. One or more users can define additional similar rules to manage when to carry his or her inhalers and rules decision engine module can create relationships between one or more respective spatial temporal or contextual elements of the first and second data determined to be a candidate for one or more of those rules e.g. between an elevation of a location and an air quality percentage . Rules decision engine module in communication with rules manager can suggest a modification to the user s rule on managing when to carry his or her inhaler based on created relationships of these other users to improve the user s rule or the user s definitions for fields of the rule.

With reference now to where a computer implemented method of enabling predictive decision making is provided a plurality of data including spatial temporal and contextual elements can be received into predictive service core N for a predetermined period of time at block . For example a plurality of data including spatial temporal and contextual elements that is previously identified as being a candidate for one or more rules of the first set of rules is received for a predetermined period of time as defined by a user via user interface into forensics module . At block the plurality of candidate data is stored for example in persistent storage such as a database associated with forensics module . At block the plurality of candidate data can be retrieved. In some embodiments the plurality of candidate data can be retrieved using a playback feature of forensics module . At block a first set of rules is received. In various embodiments a first set of rules can include rules associated with and defined by a user via user interface and communicated to rules manager . In various embodiments the first set of rules can be stored in a rules database of rules manager associated with a user. At block the plurality of candidate data is retrieved from the stored plurality of candidate data for example in the database associated with forensics module . At block spatial temporal and or contextual elements of the retrieved candidate data is indexed in memory e.g. placed in a data structure in distributed working memory as a function of the one or more rules. At block the indexed data is analyzed to identify an event as satisfying one or more of the identified rule and determine whether one or more rules of the first set of rules is satisfied. In various embodiments rules manager in communication with rules decision engine module and or forensics module can provide a rule suggestion e.g. to modify an existing rule based on this stored plurality of data. In various embodiments the identified event can be indexed in memory by its spatial temporal and or contextual elements. In various embodiments the identified event can be stored in persistent storage. In various embodiments rules can be evaluated to determine whether they are satisfied using the indexed event.

Referring now to a computer implemented method of enabling predictive decision making is provided. At block a request for a new rule defining a relationship between spatial temporal and contextual elements is received. For example rules manager can receive a request such as a request provided via user interface e.g. to create a new rule having one or more definitions for various fields including spatial temporal and contextual elements. At block an existing rule having a defined relationship between spatial temporal and contextual elements is identified. For example rules manager can identify an existing rule e.g. from a rules database having a defined relationship between spatial temporal and contextual elements. At block a modification to the new rule request is recommended based on the identified existing rule. For example rules manager can recommend a modification to the request e.g. request provided via user interface e.g. to create a new rule based on the existing rule e.g. from a rules database it identified that had a defined relationship between spatial temporal and contextual elements.

For example a user can define a rule to manage for predicting when to carry his or her inhaler based on his travel plans and define fields such as within 10 miles of his projected itinerary including hotel office locations of public transit routes in vicinity of his or her itinerary etc. air quality index of greater than 100 and time of day that he or she expects to be outside e.g. between 7 am and 9 am and between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. . Rules manager can search a rules database associated with various users and identify one or more existing rules for one or more users that are similar e.g. are directed to predicting when to carry an inhaler . Additionally rules manager can communicate with rules decision engine module and determine whether rules decision engine module has created one or more relationships between one or more respective spatial temporal or contextual elements of data determined to be a candidate for one or more of those identified rules e.g. between a similar location as the new projected itinerary and an air quality index amount of 80 between a location substantially similar to user s current location and air temperature changes of greater than 20 degrees in a five hour period etc. Rules manager and or rules decision engine module in communication with rules manager can suggest a modification to the user s rule on predicting when to carry his or her inhaler based on one or more of these created relationships of these other rules to improve the user s rule or the user s definitions for fields of the rule. For example rules decision engine module in communication with rules manager can suggest adding the user s current location and air temperature changes of greater than 20 degrees in a five hour period as definitions for fields in the user s rule or can suggest lowering the user s defined air quality index amount from to based on the user s defined location for his or her projected itinerary.

Referring back to at block a modification to the new rule request can be received based on the recommendation. For example a user may receive a modification to the new rule request add current location add air temperature changes of greater than 20 degrees in a five hour period lower defined air quality index amount from to etc. via user interface based on the recommendation. In some embodiments the user may request a modification to the new rule request to rules manager via user interface based on a recommendation received from rules manager . In other embodiments rules manager may automatically update the new rule request based on a recommendation from itself and or rules decision engine module . At block a new rule is created based on the modified new rule request. In various embodiments a new rule is created by rules manager when a user provides a modified new rule request via user interface . In some embodiments a new rule is created automatically by rules manager when a modified new rule request is received from rules decision engine module . In various embodiments the new rule is stored. For example the new rule can be stored in a rules database restricted to the user. In various embodiments the new rule can be stored in a rules database in memory.

In various embodiments the new rule can be stored in a rules database that is open to more system or human users than the respective user who initiated the new rule request. In various embodiments the new rule includes one or more fields associated with spatial temporal or contextual elements e.g. . In various embodiments the modification includes one or more additional fields. For example the modification includes one or more fields not defined or identified in the original new rule request e.g. within 10 miles of current location air temperature changes of greater than 20 degrees in a five hour period etc. In various embodiments the new rule includes one or more fields and values associated with the one or more fields and the modification includes a modified value associated with the one or more fields. For example the new rule includes an air quality index field defined with a value of 100 and the modification includes a modified value of 80 associated with the air quality index field.

Referring now to a computer implemented method of enabling predictive decision making is provided. At blocks and first received data and second received data determined to be a candidate for one or more rules of a first set of rules e.g. is indexed in memory by its respective spatial temporal or contextual elements as a function of the one or more rules. At block where rule N is one of the rules for which the received first data and received second data is identified as being a candidate the indexed first and second data elements are evaluated in memory to determine if rule N is satisfied i.e. identify an event as satisfying rule N . For example rules decision engine module can evaluate the indexed first and second data elements in memory to determine if the respective rule is satisfied. At block if no events are identified as satisfying rule N the evaluation of indexed data continues. At block a rule suggestion is provided based on an identified event that satisfies one or more of the one or more rules e.g. Rule N . For example rules manager can suggest a modification to one or more of the rules of the first set e.g. Rule N based on the identified event. In some embodiments if rules decision engine module determines that a rule e.g. rule N is satisfied based on an identified event rules decision engine module and communications interface module can communicate a rule suggestion to the user e.g. via user interface .

For example one rule in a set of rules can include the defined rule for a user to predict when to carry his or her inhaler based on his travel plans and define fields such as within 10 miles of his projected itinerary including hotel office locations of public transit routes in vicinity of his or her itinerary etc. air quality index of greater than 100 and time of day that he or she expects to be outside e.g. between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. and between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. . Rules manager can search a rules database associated with various users and identify one or more additional rules for one or more users that are similar e.g. are directed to predicting when to carry an inhaler . Additionally rules decision engine module can communicate with rules manager when it determines that one or more of such rules are satisfied e.g. in a similar location to the user s projected itinerary location and can communicate spatial temporal and contextual elements of data satisfying the rule and or attributes of an event identified as satisfying the rule. Rules manager and or rules decision engine module in communication with rules manager can suggest a modification to the user s rule on predicting when to carry his or her inhaler based on the identified event. For example rules decision engine module in communication with rules manager can suggest modifying the time of day fields defined in the rule based on the time of day of the identified event. In various embodiments a user can provide an input via user interface to rules manager e.g. by defining rule suggestion notification fields that a rule is automatically modified based on rule suggestions made via rules decision engine module communicating with rules manager . In some embodiments a user can manually select whether to accept decline or modify a rule suggestion communicated to the user e.g. via user interface from rules manager . In various embodiments 

At block one or more rules e.g. Rule N is modified based on the rule suggestion. In various embodiments the modified one or more rules is stored in a rules database of rules manager associated with the first set of rules for the user or a group of users such that the first set of rules is modified. At block the third data is evaluated e.g. via rules decision engine module and each rule of the modified first set including the modified Rule N for which the received third data is determined to be a candidate is identified. At block if third received data is not determined to be a candidate for any rule of the modified first set of rules it is disregarded. In various embodiments spatial temporal or contextual elements of the third received data that is identified as being a candidate for one or more rules of the modified first set is indexed in memory as a function of each identified rule for which the third received data is determined to be a candidate. At block if the third received data is determined to be a candidate for one or more rules of the modified first set the third received data is indexed by its temporal spatial and contextual elements as a function of the identified one or more rules.

In some embodiments one or more steps of the method can be implemented by a general purpose computer programmed in accordance with the principals discussed herein. In various embodiments the general computer processor programmed in accordance with the principles described herein is provided in the cloud of a cloud computing environment. In some embodiments the general computer processor programmed in accordance with the principles described herein is provided at one or more processing servers of predictive service core N and or at an administrator of the cloud based services . Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features can be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination can be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing can be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that certain of the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product being executed in the cloud or packaged into multiple software products for execution in the cloud.

One or more steps of the processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. One or more steps of the processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Various embodiments can be implemented in a cloud computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a computer having a GUI or a Web browser through which an operator can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described is this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

While various embodiments have been described it is to be understood that the embodiments described are illustrative only and that the scope of the subject matter is to be accorded a full range of equivalents many variations and modifications naturally occurring to those of skill in the art from a perusal hereof.

