---

title: Systems and methods for reducing narrow bandwidth interference contained in broad bandwidth signals
abstract: Under one aspect of the present invention, a system for processing a group of signals and interference includes (a) an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter for digitizing the group of signals and the interference; (b) a Fourier transform circuit for obtaining a Fourier transform of the digitized group of signals and the interference and to provide as output spectral bins, at least one of which contains the interference; (c) a power analysis circuit for comparing the collective power level of the spectral bins to a predetermined threshold, and if the collective power level exceeds the predetermined threshold, and for excising at least one bin that contains the interference; and (d) an inverse Fourier transform circuit for obtaining an inverse Fourier transform of the remaining spectral bins and outputting a digitized group of signals less the interference in any excised spectral bin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08711675&OS=08711675&RS=08711675
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08711675
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130826
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 676 645 filed Nov. 14 2012 and entitled Systems and Methods for Reducing Narrow Bandwidth Interference Contained in Broad Bandwidth Signals the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8802 09 C 0001 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application generally relates to systems and methods for reducing interference contained in signals.

A receiver may be configured to receive and process signals that have broad bandwidth spectra and powers within a certain expected range. For example a receiver on a satellite may be configured to receive a group of signals that share a common region of the electromagnetic spectrum and are multiplexed with one another using techniques known in the art. In the multiplexing technique known as code division multiple access CDMA each signal of the group is encoded with a unique code and spread over the same selected portion of the spectrum as the other signals in the group. The receiver receives the group of signals and then decodes one or more of the signals from others in the group using a priori knowledge about the unique code s of those signals. Alternatively in the multiplexing technique known as frequency division multiple access FDMA each signal of the group is assigned a different sub portion of the region of the spectrum than the other signals in the group. The receiver receives and processes the group of signals and then differentiates one or more of the signals from others in the group using a priori knowledge about the spectral sub portion s of those signals. The groups of signals received in both CDMA and FDMA may be considered broad bandwidth signals because the groups of signals occupy a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is significantly broader than normally would be used for a single non multiplexed signal that is a narrow bandwidth signal.

In both CDMA and FDMA the overall power of the group of signals received by the receiver preferably is sufficiently higher than any noise sources that may be present to yield a sufficient signal to noise ratio SNR to communicate signals with adequate fidelity as measured by BER Bit Error Rate values. At the same time the overall power of the group of signals also preferably is sufficiently low that the receiver may process the signals without distortion. Specifically as is known in the art receivers have a linear range of operation and a nonlinear range of operation. If a signal input to the receiver has a power that falls within the linear range of the receiver then the receiver processes the received signal collection without distortion. However if a signal input to the receiver has a power that falls within the nonlinear range of the receiver then the received signal collection is distorted and communication performance is degraded.

Signals other than the desired group of signals that the receiver receives may be referred to as interference may be intentional or unintentional and may have a broad bandwidth or a narrow bandwidth. If the receiver receives interference that falls within the same portion of the electromagnetic spectrum as the desired group of signals then the receiver may not distinguish the interference from the group of signals again degrading communication performance. However if the power of the interference is sufficiently high that nonlinear receiver operation occurs not only may the interference obscure desired spectral components but also cause additional signal distortion. This additional receiver distortion may include suppression of desired signals and generation of intermodulation products between design signal components and the interference resulting in additional degradation in receiver performance.

A receiver may have features intended to reduce the effects of such interference. For example the receiver may be designed so as to increase its linear range and thus reduce the risk that interference may cause distortion e.g. by providing circuitry that remains linear at higher input power levels. However increasing the linear range of the receiver may be expensive and also may require a larger power supply to operate the modified circuitry.

Another known approach for reducing the effect of narrow bandwidth interference on reception of a broad bandwidth desired signal uses adaptive notch filter techniques. Specifically a notch filter may be applied to the received signal prior to amplification so as to block the region of the spectrum where the interference is located. The amplitude width and spectral location of the notch filter may be adaptively modified over time by varying weighting coefficients which may be iteratively derived using a gradient process based on an optimization criterion such as maximum signal to noise plus interference ratio SNIR . Such adaptive notch filter techniques have been widely applied. However its iterative nature makes this approach is relatively slow and thus less able to respond to rapidly changing interference.

The CDMA signal format is an example of spread spectrum modulation wherein user signals are spread over a much wider bandwidth than needed to convey the information in the user s signal. One advantage of spread spectrum modulation is protection from interference achieved by processing the user unique codes. Similar interference protection may be achieved in FDMA formats by frequency hopping the user assigned frequency slots over a wide bandwidth in a pseudorandom sequence of frequency hop codes known to both the sender and receiver. Signal error correcting coding and interleaving techniques further add to the interference protection and are commonly used. These interference protection techniques are known in the art but their benefits depend on linear receiver operation. The effectiveness of these techniques is significantly degraded by receiver nonlinearities.

Thus what is needed is a method of reducing the effects of interference with broad bandwidth signals while maintaining linear receiver operation.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for reducing narrow bandwidth interference contained in broad bandwidth signals. Specifically embodiments of the present invention remove relatively high power narrow bandwidth interference contained in a broad bandwidth desired signal after the composite of the two are received for example by obtaining a Fourier transform of the composite signal and then identifying and excising spectral regions that have particularly high power levels. Following such excision an inverse Fourier transform may be obtained the result of which is a signal having reduced interference. Preferably the spectral regions to be excised are selected based on the overall power levels of the broad bandwidth desired signal so as to maintain such power levels within the linear operating range of electronic components to which the processed signal subsequently may be provided.

Under one aspect of the present invention a system for processing a group of signals and interference includes a an analog to digital A D converter configured to digitize the group of signals and the interference b a Fourier transform circuit coupled to the A D converter and configured to obtain a Fourier transform of the digitized group of signals and the interference and to provide as output spectral bins each bin having a power level at least some of the bins respectively containing portions of the digitized group of signals and at least one of the bins containing the interference c a power analysis circuit configured to compare the collective power level of the spectral bins output by the Fourier transform circuit to a predetermined threshold and if the collective power level exceeds the predetermined threshold and to excise at least one bin that contains the interference and d an inverse Fourier transform circuit configured to obtain an inverse Fourier transform of the remaining spectral bins and to provide as output a digitized group of signals in the time domain less the interference in any excised spectral bin.

In some embodiments the A D converter and Fourier transform circuit are configured to ensure that the group of signals and the interference are within the linear range of these components e.g. fall within the A D converter s digital quantization level. In some embodiments the system also includes an analog conditioner circuit configured to ensure that the group of signals and the interference are within the conditioner s linear range.

In some embodiments the power analysis circuit is configured to obtain a dynamically defined threshold having a value that if spectral bins having power levels exceeding that threshold are excised would reduce the collective power to or below the predetermined threshold. The power analysis circuit may be configured to excise spectral bins having power levels that exceed the dynamically defined threshold. For example the power analysis circuit may include a first arithmetic circuit configured to obtain the collective power level a storage medium configured to store the predetermined threshold and a first comparator configured to compare the collective power level to the stored predetermined threshold. The power analysis circuit further may include a second arithmetic circuit configured to obtain the dynamically defined threshold and a second comparator configured to compare the power level of each bin to the dynamically defined threshold and to excise any bin whose power level exceeds that threshold. In some embodiments the power analysis circuit includes a field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific integrated circuit ASIC suitably programmed so as to include the first and second arithmetic circuits the storage medium and the first and second comparators.

The power analysis circuit may be configured to excise the spectral bins having power levels that exceed the dynamically defined threshold by setting the power levels of those bins to zero.

In some embodiments the power analysis circuit further also may be configured to compare the power level of each spectral bin to an empty bin threshold and if the power level of a bin is less than the empty bin threshold excising that bin.

The group of signals may include code division multiple access CDMA or frequency division multiple access FDMA based signals for example.

Some embodiments further include a multiplexer configured to multiplex the digitized group of signals output by at least one antenna and at least one router configured to route the multiplexed signals to the at least one antenna based on the intended destination thereof. In this case the receiver may be a part of a transponder that relays a group of signals to another location s e.g. such as the transponder in a communication satellite or wireless network. In other embodiments the receiver may be equipped with demodulator s to obtain the information contained in one or more signals e.g. as would be the case where individual system users demodulate signals of interest for their own purposes.

Under another aspect of the present invention a method of processing a received group of signals and interference includes a digitizing the received group of signals and the interference b obtaining a Fourier transform of the digitized group of signals and the interference to output spectral bins each bin having a power level at least some of the bins respectively containing portions of the digitized group of signals and at least one of the bins containing the interference c comparing the collective power level of the spectral bins to a predetermined threshold and if the collective power level exceeds the predetermined threshold excising at least one bin that contains the interference and d obtaining an inverse Fourier transform of the remaining spectral bins and providing as output a digitized group of signals less the interference in any excised spectral bin.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for reducing narrow bandwidth interference with broad bandwidth signals such as a group of signals that are multiplexed with each other and that share a common portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. As described above if a receiver receives both desired broad bandwidth signals and high level narrow bandwidth interference the composite of the signals and interference may result in nonlinear receiver operation distorting the desired broad bandwidth signals thus reducing the receiver s ability to retrieve information from the desired signals e.g. to distinguish the multiplexed signals from one another. The present invention reduces the effect of such interference by removing spectral components of such interference in real time. Specifically the present invention digitizes the received signal collection and any interference into quantized levels and then Fourier transforms these digitized signals to obtain a plurality of spectral bins. Each frequency bin has an intensity that corresponds to the composite power of any signal or interference components that fall within the frequency bin. Some if not all of the spectral bins contain spectrally resolved portions of the digitized group of signals. Additionally at least one spectral bin contains the interference and indeed multiple bins may contain interference depending on the spectral content of the interference.

The present invention provides that any spectral bins that contain interference may be excised if such bins contain a particularly high power and if the collective power level of all of the bins together exceeds a predetermined threshold. Excising interference containing bins when both of such conditions are met may be useful because if the collective power level of all of the bins is sufficiently low that the receiver operates within its linear range then any interference present may not necessarily cause additional distortion of the desired signals. In contrast if the collective power of all of the bins is relatively high running the risk that the receiver may operate within its nonlinear range then such power level may be used as a signal that interference is present. Appropriate circuitry within the receiver may identify any interference present based on its power level which may be relatively high as compared to the desired group of signals. Any bins so identified as having interference may be excised e.g. set to zero and the remaining bins then inverse Fourier transformed to obtain the digitized signals less at least some of the interference in the time domain. After high level interference is excised the dynamic range of the remaining signal collection is reduced from its previous value when high level interference was present. This reduced dynamic range after interference excision of high level interference advantageously reduces the power consumption of the electronics following the interference excision. The present invention thus may in some circumstances be viewed as a dynamic digital prefilter to maintain linear receiver operation.

First an overview of the inventive system and components therein will be provided. Then methods of using such a system and signals processed thereby will be described. Lastly some alternative embodiments and exemplary applications of the present invention will be described.

Antenna analog conditioner illustrated in may be configured to wirelessly receive a group of signals within a particular frequency band or bands. For example antenna analog conditioner may be configured to receive analog CDMA or FDMA signals that fall within a pre defined spectral band and may include one or more filters configured to block signals having frequencies that fall outside of this band. Appropriate antenna designs for a variety of signals in a variety of contexts e.g. terrestrial aircraft or space based antennas are known in the art. In some embodiments antenna analog conditioner may be a pre existing structure to which inventive system may be coupled.

Antenna analog conditioner also may include an input RF filter to select the bandwidth containing desired signal components and reject other signals at frequencies outside of that bandwidth a low noise amplifier to establish the system noise level and may contain one or more downconverters to translate the RF bandwidth containing the user signals into the bandwidth over which the A D operates. Such components may be considered together to constitute analog conditioning circuitry.

A D converter may include input port configured to be coupled to antenna analog conditioner via conductive element such that A D converter receives any analog signals received by antenna analog conditioner . Conductive element may include for example a coaxial cable a transmission line or any other suitable conductor configured to transmit signals within the pre defined spectral band from antenna analog conditioner to A D converter via input port . A D converter is configured to digitize and quantize the signals that it receives from antenna analog conditioner . As known to those of skill in the art of digital signal processing A D converters are commercially available devices that generate a digital version of an analog signal by sampling that signal at a specified rate and mapping the power levels of that analog signal onto quantization levels in a digital data stream. A D converters may have a fixed resolution that is may have a fixed number of quantization levels onto which it may map the power levels of the analog signal. For example A D converters with an 8 bit resolution may be configured to map analog power levels onto 255 quantization levels. Note that in some embodiments antenna analog conditioner may include its own A D converter configured to digitize the received signals or even may receive the desired group of signals in a digital format in which circumstances A D converter may be omitted from system and antenna analog conditioner instead may be directly coupled to FFT circuit . In embodiments including A D converter the converter provides as output to FFT circuit via input port of FFT circuit and conductive element a digitized quantized version of the desired group of signals and a digitized quantized version of any interference that shares the same spectral band as the desired group of signals e.g. that was not filtered out by antenna analog conditioner nor removed as a product of digitization or quantization .

As is known in the art a discrete Fourier transform DFT may be used to determine the frequency components of a signal that varies in time. An FFT is a particular variant of DFT in which the input signal has a number of points N that is a power of two and is Fourier transformed using an algorithm that is particularly efficient at obtaining a DFT of an input signal having a number of points that is a power of two such as the Cooley Tukey algorithms known in the art. The output of a DFT is a spectrally resolved version of the input signal in which different spectral components of the incoming signal are mapped onto a predefined number e.g. for an FFT a power of two of spectral bins. In some embodiments the signal output by A D converter has a number of points N that is a power of two and FFT circuit is configured to perform an FFT on that signal. Circuits for performing FFTs as well as other types of Fourier transformations of digital signals are known in the art and are commercially available. In some embodiments FFT circuit provides as output a plurality of spectral bins at least some of which contain portions of the digitized group of signals and at least one of which contains interference. Each bin has a power level corresponding to the summed power levels of any spectral components be they based on the desired group of signals or based on the interference that have been mapped to that bin. FFT circuit provides such spectral bins to input port of power analysis circuit via conductive element .

Preferably antenna analog conditioner A D converter and FFT circuitry are configured so as to ensure that linear operation is maintained prior to interference excision for the highest anticipated interference level. Preferably the analog components e.g. antenna analog conditioner have a suffficently high 1 dB compression value relative to the input to maintain linear operation. In practice the gain distribution may be examined and in some cases the receiver noise temperature may be increased somewhat by reducing the analog gain values to achieve the required linearity. The clipping levels and quantization used in the digital technology e.g. A D converter and FFT circuitry likewise may be selected to avoid digital overflow or nonlinear operation in the digital technology used prior to interference excision.

Power analysis circuit is configured to excise one or more of the spectral bins that it receives from FFT circuit based both on the collective power of all of the bins and based on the power of each bin individually. By excise it is meant that power analysis circuit reduces the power levels of such spectral bins to about zero in some embodiments or to a predetermined non zero level in other embodiments. Specifically power analysis circuit is configured to compare the collective power of all of the bins to a predefined threshold which preferably is based on the linear range of operation of one or more demodulators . In one illustrative example if the demodulator is limited to a maximum input signal level to achieve the required demodulation linearity then the predefined threshold may be established to limit the signal power output from iFFT circuit to demodulator s to somewhat less than the maximum demodulator input level e.g. to 95 or less or 90 or less or 85 of less than the maximum demodulator input level. If power analysis circuit determines that the collective power level of all of the bins exceeds the predetermined threshold then the circuit establishes a dynamically defined threshold selected to facilitate identification and excision of interference that may be present while reducing the risk that the desired group of signals also may be excised. To do so power analysis circuit may determine the amount by which the collective power level of all of the bins must be reduced to satisfy the predetermined threshold and then may establish the dynamically defined threshold at such a value that if bins having powers exceeding that threshold are excised it would reduce the collective power to or below the predetermined threshold. Power analysis circuit then may excise any bins that exceed the dynamically defined threshold e.g. by setting the power levels of such bins to zero.

Power analysis circuit may include any suitable circuitry configured to store the predefined threshold to compare the collective power of the spectral bins to the predefined threshold to establish the dynamically defined threshold and to excise any bins that exceed the dynamically defined threshold. For example in the embodiment illustrated in power analysis circuit may include arithmetic circuit A storage medium comparator A arithmetic circuit B and comparator B . Arithmetic circuit A may be configured to obtain the spectral bins output by FFT circuit e.g. via conductive element and any other suitable conductors and to sum the power levels of the spectral bins so as to obtain a collective power level of the bins. Storage medium may be configured to store the predefined threshold. In some embodiments the predefined threshold is based on the known linearity characteristics of circuitry in demodulator s which may be established at the time receiver is designed and constructed. Comparator A may be coupled e.g. via appropriate conductive elements to storage medium from which it receives the predefined threshold and to arithmetic circuit A from which it receives the spectral bins as well as the collective power level of the spectral bins. Comparator A may be configured to compare the collective power of the spectral bins to the predefined threshold.

Comparator A also may be coupled to arithmetic circuit B e.g. via an appropriate conductive element so as to provide to arithmetic circuit B with the spectral bins as well as a signal indicating the amount if any by which the collective power of the spectral bins exceeds the predefined threshold. Arithmetic circuit B also may receive the predefined threshold either from comparator A or from storage medium as is illustrated in . Arithmetic circuit B is configured to obtain a dynamically defined threshold having a value such that if bins having powers exceeding that threshold are excised it would reduce the collective power to or below the predetermined threshold. Arithmetic circuit B is coupled to comparator B e.g. via an appropriate conductive element. Comparator B receives the spectral bins as well as the dynamically defined threshold from arithmetic circuit B . Comparator B is configured to set to excise e.g. set to zero any spectral bins that exceed the dynamically defined threshold.

Note that arithmetic circuits A and B comparators A and B and storage medium may be implemented using any suitable logic circuits known in the art. For example arithmetic circuits are known in the art and are commercially available as are comparators and storage media and suitably may be coupled together with conductive elements. In other embodiments the functionalities of one or more of arithmetic circuits A and B comparators A and B and or storage medium may be provided by a suitably programmed field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific integrated circuit ASIC . FPGAs and ASICs are commercially available and methods of programming same to achieve desired logical programming are known in the art. In still other embodiments the functionalities of one or more of arithmetic circuits A and B comparators A and B and storage medium may be provided by a suitably programmed computer e.g. a personal computer. Additionally note that circuitry other than arithmetic circuits A and B comparators A and B and storage medium may be used to provide power analysis circuit with functionality analogous to that described herein.

Inverse FFT iFFT circuit is configured to receive the spectral bins output by power analysis circuit e.g. by comparator B via iFFT circuit input port and conductive element . iFFT circuit which may include any suitable commercially available circuitry then performs an inverse function to that of FFT circuit that is to determine the time components of a signal that varies in frequency and as such to provide as output a signal that resembles the combination of the desired group of signals plus interference initially received by antenna but less the interference in any bin whose power was excised by power analysis circuit e.g. whose power was set to zero. iFFT circuit provides such output to demodulator s via amplifier input port and conductive element . Because interference reduction system reduces the amount of interference that amplifier receives demodulator s are more likely to operate within their linear range s and thus less likely to distort the desired group of signals. As such receiver may more readily distinguish and obtain information from the different multiplexed signal components of the desired group of signals from one another than may otherwise be possible without the interference reduction.

In an alternative embodiment transponder illustrated in is configured similarly to receiver illustrated in but is configured to transmit the inversely Fourier transformed signals to a remote user for remote demodulation rather than locally demodulating the signals. In transponder iFFT circuit is configured to provide its output to amplifier and transmit antenna s e.g. via amplifier input port and conductive element . Amplifier and transmit antenna s then amplify and transmit the received signal to one or more individual user s each of whom has their own demodulator s . In such embodiments the predetermined threshold used by power analysis circuit is based on the linear range of operation of amplifier and transmit antenna s . For example if the amplifier and transmit antenna s are limited to a total power of 50 Watts or less to achieve linearity then the predefined threshold may be established to limit the signal power output from iFFT circuit to amplifier and transmit antenna s 13 to 50 Watts.

The operation of system illustrated in now will be described in greater detail with reference to method illustrated in and exemplary signals illustrated in . Method includes digitizing a group of signals and interference received from an antenna and analog conditioning circuitry of a receiver step . For example as described above with reference to A D converter may receive and digitize signals from antenna analog conditioner . Such signals may include the desired group of signals and any interference that occurs within the same bandwidth as does the group of signals. For example as illustrated in exemplary code division multiple access CDMA signal received by antenna analog conditioner sampled at a given period of time and provided to A D converter may include several different portions a f having power levels that vary over time. In the example of signal may include portions a d and f having a relatively low power level as well as portion e having a higher power level. Portions a d and f contain a desired group of signals and perhaps low level interference components. The relatively small variation in their relative power levels may result from users accessing and leaving the system and perhaps some variation in low level interference which typically persists a prolonged period of time in the normal course of system operation. However signal also includes portion e which includes high level interference added to the desired group of signals and perhaps some low level interference as well.

As noted above during step of A D converter digitizes the received signals into quantized levels forming a digital data stream which include the desired group of signals and interference. Following transforming the received signal collection into the digital domain an FFT is performed step that transforms the received signal collection at a given instant of time into frequency bins spanning the spectrum of the signal at that instant. In one illustrative embodiment received signal has a bandwidth of approximately 10 MHz and is mapped by FFT circuit onto 64 bins in which case the frequency resolution the width of each bin is about 156 kHz.

In one illustrative example if the instant of time when the FFT is performed lies within the portion e in e.g. when strong interference is present a distribution of the power levels in the frequency bins in may be obtained. The actual signals in the FFT bins are contained in a digital data stream and the illustration in indicates the power levels in those bins at a given instant of time. If the input signal collection consisted exclusively CDMA signals the power levels in the FFT bins would be relatively constant. However the distribution of power levels in the frequency bins illustrated in contains two bins B and D that contain higher power levels than the remaining bins A C E and F. These bins with the discernably higher power levels contain not only the spectral components of the desired CDMA signal collection but also the spectral components of two interfering signals. The illustration in also includes the dynamically predefined threshold level established by the power analysis circuit as described further below. In the power level of bin B exceeds threshold while the power level of bin D does not.

Method of also includes obtaining the collective power of the spectral bins and comparing the collective power level of those bins to a predefined threshold step . For example power analysis circuit described above with reference to may receive the spectral bins from FFT circuit and may include circuitry such as arithmetic circuit A storage medium and comparator A that together are configured to obtain the collective power of the received spectral bins and to compare the collective power level of those bins to a predefined threshold so as to assess whether the desired group of signals and the interference together may have a power that exceeds the linear range of demodulator s . For the exemplary signal illustrated in arithmetic circuit A may obtain a sum of the power levels in bins A F storage medium may store a value representative of the maximum power level at which demodulator s may demodulate the signal s with adequate linearity and comparator A may be configured to compare the sum from arithmetic circuit A to the value from storage medium .

Method of also includes if the collective power of the spectral bins exceeds the predetermined threshold establishing a dynamically defined threshold step . Preferably the dynamically defined threshold has a value that if the bins having powers exceeding that threshold are excised the collective power would be reduced to or below the predetermined threshold. For example as noted above with reference to power analysis circuit may include arithmetic circuit B that is configured to establish the dynamically defined threshold in such a manner. For the exemplary spectral bins illustrated in bin B has a power level that exceeds dynamically defined threshold while the power level of bin D is less than threshold .

Method of also includes excising any bins that exceed the dynamically defined threshold step such as by setting the power level of such bins to zero. For example power analysis circuit illustrated in may include comparator B configured to compare the power level of each spectral bin to the dynamically defined threshold and to reduced to zero the power level of any spectral bin that exceeds the dynamically defined threshold. Referring to it may be seen that the power level of spectral bin B which exceeded dynamically defined threshold in has been set to zero thus excising that bin and resulting in modified bin B . However although the power level of spectral bin D exceeds that of the remaining bins bin D in has not been excised because its power does not exceed dynamically defined threshold . The signals at this time instant are contained in a digital data stream that differs from the digital data stream after the A D by excluding the spectral distribution of the high level interference in frequency bin B but containing the spectral distribution of the interference below the threshold in frequency bin D. The power levels after excision in represent the spectral components in the data stream after excision. It should be noted that bin D may contain usable signal information because the power level of the interference is not significantly greater than that of the desired signal component to which it is added. In this case the CDMA processing gain mitigates the lower level interference as is known in the art. Preferably following the excision of any bins that exceed the dynamically defined threshold the collective power of the remaining bins is at or below the predetermined threshold that is is within the linear range of operation of demodulator s .

Method of further includes performing an inverse Fourier transform on the remaining spectral bins so as to obtain a digitized group of signals less any signal contributions and interference that was in the excised bins step . For example as noted above with reference to iFFT circuit may perform an iFFT on the output of power analysis circuit e.g. on the output of comparator B and may provide the output of such iFFT to demodulator s . The iFFT output includes a digital data stream containing the information describing the wide bandwidth CDMA spectrum illustrated in at a given instant of time occurring during portion e illustrated in . The resulting spectrum after iFFT operations is again a digital data stream that at a given instant of time may have the power spectral distribution illustrated in during the instant of time these operations were performed within the time interval e in . Each frequency bin after iFFT operations may follow the time domain signal variation during subsequent time periods.

Note that the spectrum after excision in has reduced desired CDMA signal power that results from the excision. This signal loss is small as the high level interference power has a narrow bandwidth that occupies a small fraction of the frequency bins. Wide bandwidth high level interference occupies a larger number of frequency bins that results in more desired CDMA signal power loss. The tolerable amount of signal loss depends on the link margin and amount of signal energy needed for acceptable signal performance. However excising high level signal components that result in nonlinear receiver operation is required to avoid the additional degradation to communication performance. When linear receiver operation is maintained the loss in communication performance is limited to desired signal loss resulting from excision. In addition the spectral components of the interference whose levels do not exceed the excision threshold are also present. The processing gain of the CDMA waveform inherently provides interference protection from low level interference. These issues are known in the art.

Following steps illustrated in the resulting signals then may be distinguished from one another e.g. demultiplexed and decoded using a priori knowledge of the CDMA codes initially used to multiplex the signals with one another. Receiver s power requirements for performing such processing may be significantly reduced relative to those for processing otherwise similar signals from which interference had not been excised particularly in the case where interference excision is applied to transponder architectures where the transponder s transmitter level must be increased to maintain a linear output.

Note that excising a given bin during step of method illustrated in not only removes any interference within that bin but also any spectral components of the desired group of signals within that bin. However for CDMA based signals such excision of desired signal components may have little impact on the receiver s ability later to demultiplex and decode the signal components in the remaining bins. Specifically as mentioned above and as known in the art CDMA spreads each signal of the group over the same selected portion of the spectrum as the other signals in the group. As such excising a subset of that selected portion of the spectrum the subset being within the excised bin reduces the overall signal strength of all of the signals in the group but substantially without reducing the information content of the signals in the group. For example even if 20 of the selected portion of the selected portion of the spectrum is excised the overall power of the desired group of signals may be reduced by approximately 1 dB which may not significantly impact the receiver s ability to demultiplex and decode the signal components in the remaining bins. However if the excised interference has sufficiently large bandwidth relative to that of the desired group of signals then the overall power of the desired group of signals may be reduced to an extent that may make it difficult to demultiplex and decode the signal components in the remaining bins thus degrading communication performance. Thus the interference preferably has a relatively narrow bandwidth relative to the desired group of signals.

Additionally note that CDMA is only one example of a technique that may be used to multiplex a group of signals with one another in a broad bandwidth manner from which interference may be excised using system illustrated in and method illustrated in . Another such technique is FDMA which as mentioned above assigns different signals in the group to different portions of the spectrum than one another. illustrate exemplary signals that may be generated using system illustrated in and method illustrated in to excise interference from an FDMA signal.

Specifically illustrates exemplary FDMA signal which may be received by antenna and provided to A D converter as illustrated in step of method illustrated in . FDMA signal may include several different portions a i that vary relative to one another over time and differ from one another depending on the particular power level for each signal within the frequency bins Signal also may include interference as denoted by higher power level portion f.

In addition some of the frequency bins may be unpopulated with signal components and be occupied by only noise components that have no communication value. The example in contains desired FDMA signal components in bins B D F G I K L and N and may or may not have desired signal components in bins J and M that are masked by interference. Bins A C E and H illustrated in contain noise components but substantially no desired FDMA signal components and thus are denoted as empty bins. The distribution of signal components is illustrated for a given instant of time and varies with operation.

FDMA based systems may provide communications to a number of users through a transponder architecture and the illustration in depicts the distribution within the transponder s IF intermediate frequency bandwidth. Individual users may receive the entire signal collection communicated by the transponder and select the pre assigned frequency slot s to receive the communications intended for their own use. As discussed above the transponder s transmitter preferably remains linear and if high level interference is not excised the transmitter power output may be increased to remain linear for the highest anticipated interference level thus incurring a significant increase in power consumption. In cases where interference protection is desired frequency hopped spread spectrum techniques may be used where the carrier frequency is hopped in a pseudo random pattern known to the transponder s transmitter and system users but not to the interference source. In such cases the interference source may dilute its resources by distributing the interference over the wider spread spectrum bandwidth or cover a limited portion of that bandwidth and interfere with user communications only part of the time. The distribution in the frequency bins illustrated in again pertains for an instant of time and preferably covers the hop bandwidth and interference at other times may be outside the hop bandwidth because the pseudo random hopping sequence is unknown to the interference source. The degradation to system users when the interference coincides with the hopped bandwidth may be mitigated by error correction coding and interleaving as is known in the art.

As described further above with reference to and power analysis circuitry may obtain the collective power of the spectral bins compare that power level to a predefined threshold and if the collective power exceeds that predefined threshold dynamically establishe an interference threshold to determine potential frequency bins having sufficient power to result in nonlinear operation steps . Thus in the illustrative example in FIG. B frequency bin M containing strong interference e.g. having a power level greater than dynamically defined threshold would be excised while frequency bin J having a power level less than the dynamically defined threshold would not be excised. As in the spectral information in the signal collection illustrated in is a digital bit stream and the power levels in the frequency bins is used for illustration purposes.

Optionally additional benefits may be obtained by excising certain spectral bins in addition to those that exceed dynamically defined threshold . For example turning back to it may be seen that the power levels of bins B D F G and I N are greater than empty bin threshold which designates a power level below which a bin may be considered to carry insufficient information to distinguish and thus is empty . Empty bin threshold may be defined for example based on a priori knowledge about the system noise level and the variance of its value. That is each of bins B D F G and I N has sufficient power as to permit communications noting of course that bin M also includes high power interference . By comparison bins A C E and H have power levels that are below empty bin threshold and may be excised by setting their values to zero such as illustrated in resulting in modified bins A C E and H . After excision of the high level interference and empty bins that have no communication value the overall quantization level of the desired group of signals may be reduced allowing communication of the useful information content thereof.

Thus method illustrated in optionally includes steps of comparing the power levels of the spectral bins to an empty bin threshold and excising any bins having power levels that are lower than that threshold. Such steps may be executed e.g. using a comparator to compare the bins power levels to a threshold stored in a suitable storage medium and to excise any bins having power levels that are lower than that threshold. Such comparator and storage medium may be included in system illustrated in e.g. by providing dedicated circuitry configured to provide the above described functionality or by providing a suitably programmed FPGA ASIC or computer such as described above with reference to .

Following excision of any spectral bins having power levels that exceed dynamically defined threshold and optionally of any spectral bins having power levels that are less than empty bin threshold as well as optionally identifying bins having power levels that are higher or lower than desired user power level an inverse Fourier transform may be performed on the remaining spectral bins so as to obtain a digitized group of signals less any signal contributions and interference that was in the excised bins step of . An iFFT circuit such as described above with reference to may be employed to perform such an inverse Fourier transformation and may provide the output of such transformation to demodulator s . However the power levels of interference portion M and the empty bins A C E and H illustrated in which have no communication value have been reduced significantly relative to their power levels in . The overall quantization level of the remaining group of signals including empty bins and remaining interference is significantly lower than in and preferably is within the linear range of demodulator . As such system may process the desired group of signals and any remaining interference which may be of a sufficiently low level as to inhibit distortion of the desired group of signals during amplification.

The signals of the group then may be distinguished from one another e.g. demultiplexed using a priori knowledge of the spectral regions to which each of the signals has been assigned. Receiver s power requirements for performing such processing may be significantly reduced relative to those for processing otherwise similar signals from which interference had not been excised particularly in transponder architectures.

As compared to the CDMA example described above with reference to in which excising bins resulted in an overall reduction in CDMA signal strength but without loss of information it should be noted that excising interference containing bins in FDMA based signals also may excise any desired signals assigned to spectral regions that fall within the excised bins. However in such bins the interference may be sufficiently strong that even without excision it may not necessarily be possible to obtain information from the desired signals and as such the excision may not necessarily reduce the amount of information that practicably may be obtained from the group of signals. The tolerable interference level depends on the error correction coding and interleaving commonly practiced in the art.

Note that the operation of interference reduction system illustrated in e.g. the implementation of method illustrated in to produce signals as exemplified in and A D preferably occurs in real time. That is the components of system preferably reduce interference with broad bandwidth signals as those signals arrive based on the relative power levels of the different spectral components of the signal and immediately thereafter provide the resulting signals to demodulator s for processing as illustrated in or to transmit antenna s for transmission to a uwer as illustrated in . By comparison adaptive notch filters such as mentioned above rely on iterative spectral analysis of the interference to derive the adaptive filter s weighting coefficients potentially resulting in time delays in adjusting to changes when the interference spectrum dynamically varies over time in an unpredictable manner.

Note that for FDMA based signals system may be adapted to provide enhanced functionality in routing signals to various destinations e.g. analogously to a digital channelizer. For example communication satellites and terrestrial transponders may use multiple beams signals to increase link performance and communication throughput in communicating to an overall coverage area. In such designs frequency reuse plans wherein adjacent antenna beams are assigned a subband of the overall frequency allocation and groups of FDMA users populate those subbands may be used to reduce mutual interference between adjacent beams. The investment in digital technology in system together with digital routers and multiplexers advantageously provides operational flexibility to provide connectivity between users distributed over the collection of antenna beams accessing system units connected to each receiving beam to their destination beams that may or may not be in beam locations where the signal originates. However the demands for communication throughput often are not uniformly distributed over the collection of beams and users at one beam destination may desire communication to other beam destination s .

In other embodiments system usefully may be employed in digital channelizer such as illustrated in so as to provide enhanced communication flexibility. Digital channelizer may include receive antenna analog conditioner configured to receive a group of multiplexed signals e.g. FDMA based signals as well as interference reduction system configured to excise interference and empty bins therein using method described above with reference to and optional modifications thereof e.g. A D converter FFT circuit power analysis circuit and iFFT circuit which may be similar to those described above with reference to . Analogously as noted above with reference to FFT circuit is configured to demultiplex the signals of the group from one another e.g. based on the different sub portions of the spectral region to which the signals respectively have been assigned. Digital channelizer further includes one or more routers that are configured to route the signals to one or more multiplexer s based on the intended destinations of the different signals. That is router s group together signals that are intended for a common destination as one another and provide those signals as a group to a corresponding multiplexer which multiplexes the signals of the group together and provides the resulting group of signals to a corresponding D A converter and then to a corresponding amplifier and transmit antenna . In some embodiments digital channelizer includes as many router s multiplexer s D A converters and amplifiers and transmit antennas as there are intended signal destinations.

In some cases signal components after interference excision from adjacent beam positions can advantageously be combined to produce an additional beam position located within the coverage of the adjacent beams e.g. digital beamforming to provide the capability to increase antenna gain levels within the coverage area compared to the fixed beam positions. Such digital beamforming can be implemented by using a priori selected fixed beam combining coefficients dynamically determined beam combining coefficients to track system uses or dynamically determined coefficients to adaptively produce pattern nulls in the direction of residual interference sources as known in the art. Because high level interference sources may be excised using system these digital beamforming techniques may be implemented without degradation from nonlinear receiver operation.

In other embodiments the signals received by multiple beams may be demodulated and remodulated into a transmitted fog mat in a processing transponder architecture. In these embodiments the demodulator circuitry may be configured to simultaneously demodulate groups of individual FDMA signal components. The capabilities of such demodulators are not fully utilized for individual beams that are lightly populated with FDMA user signals In such cases multiplexing individual FDMA signals received from different antenna elements would be advantageous by utilizing the demodulators more effectively. This approach may also reduce the cost and complexity of the system by reducing the number of demodulators required. Thus system usefully may be employed to enhance transmission efficiency by facilitating combination of multiple lightly populated groups of signals with one another prior to demodulation remodulation and transmission.

For example illustrates digital combiner for FDMA signals that may include analog conditioned antenna inputs configured to receive signals from one or more receive antenna s not illustrated respectively configured to receive groups of signals from different destinations. Digital combiner also includes A D converter FFT circuit and power analysis circui which may be the same as described above with reference to which may be configured to excise empty bins and interference and to demultiplex signals in the manner described above. Digital combiner also includes a router multiplexer iFFT circuit configured to select individual frequency bins from the collection of demultiplexed antenna outputs multiplex then into a signal data stream and process them with an iFFT to form a single digital input data stream that is provided to demodulator remodulator . After remodulation the remodulated data stream in its converted modulation format can be demultiplexed into separated signal components and routed by demultiplexer router to destination antennas for transmissions. The remodulated data stream signals at each transmitting antenna are processed by a D A converter analog conditioned into the transmitted frequency amplified by the transmitter and radiated by the antenna. In operation the individual signal components in the received antenna signals may be assigned to different non conflicting frequency slots by a resource allocator to avoid mutual interference. The assignments of the frequency slots illustrated in provides an illustrative example for three beams i j and k where five frequency slots distributed among the three beams are multiplexed into a single data stream without conflicting with one another. Additionally embodiments of system and method described above suitably may be modified to provide adaptive transmission bandwidth. Previously known system designs are configured to uniformly assign fixed bandwidth subbands to individual beam positions as illustrated in Specifically the spectral sub regions to which different signals of a group are assigned typically is fixed based on the overall bandwidth available for the group of signals e.g. each signal may be assigned to a sub region of fixed width regardless of the throughput requirements of the signal. In situation where individual signals may have varying needs for communication throughput it may be desirable to provide greater bandwidth to signals having heavy demands for throughput and less bandwidth to signals with lesser demands for throughput. The bandwidth in this case may be established by the bandwidth of the multiplexed signal components. For example transponder illustrated in digital channelizer illustrated in and digital combiner illustrated in suitably may be configured to assign different signals to spectral sub portions having widths that vary relative to one another based on the throughput requirements of the respective signals as illustrated in . Such a configuration may provide enhanced operational flexibility to vary the transmission bandwidth in accordance with the time varying throughput demands of the individual signals.

Potential performance characteristics of system were characterized by measuring a CDMA signal having interference excising that interference and determining the bit error rate BER of the signal before and after the interference was excised as well as for a comparable signal having no interference. Specifically illustrates a measured wideband CDMA signal centered at 0 MHz and having a relative amplitude of approximately 15 dB between about 2.5 MHz and 2.5 MHz and a noise level with a relative amplitude of 5 dB. This spectral plot was obtained by transforming the digital data stream with a D A converter to obtain the analog spectral distribution. Dividing this spectral distribution into frequency bins and obtaining the power in each bin would result in the spectral plots analogous to the exemplary plots in . Interference in the form of two components each having a bandwidth of 25 kHz and an spectral power density approximately 30 dB higher in the 25 KHz bandwidth was added to the CDMA signal at spectral locations of about 0.5 MHz and 1.0 MHz. illustrates a second measured signal spectrum again obtained by processing the measured digital data stream with a D A converter to obtain the analog spectral plot that included the CDMA signal after the interference was excised by setting the signal amplitude to zero in regions that previously contained the interference. A third signal not illustrated was simulated that was analogous to the CDMA signal illustrated in but lacked interference. Each of the three types of signals were measured for different values of energy per chip noise spectral density Ec No to obtain bit error rate and block error rate values to evaluate the effectiveness of excising the two interfering tone interferers.

The bit error rate BER of the three types of simulated signals for the different values of energy per chip noise spectral density Ec No is illustrated in . As is known in the art BER is reflective of the proportion of incorrect bits in a signal a BER of 10means that one bit in a thousand is incorrect. It may be seen that the CDMA signal without interference closed squares had the lowest BER at a given Ec No but that the CDMA signal with interference excised closed diamonds had a BER that was not significantly higher than that of the CDMA signal without interference. By comparison the CDMA signal with interference present had a significantly higher BER than either of the other two signals that lacked interference having a BER of 0.1 at an Ec No of about 20 dB while the other two signals had a BER of 0.1 at an Ec No of about 22 dB. Thus the excision of the two interfering tones closely restored the system performance to the performance without interference. In addition to these measurements simulation results yielded the same conclusion.

The measurements and simulations used interference values that were within the linear operating range of the measurement instrumentation so that the additional impacts of nonlinear operation were not observed. The CDMA signal used in these measurements contained a spreading code to broaden its response but did not use error correction coding to reduce the interference effects as observed by the BER measurements. Normally such coding would have restored the BER performance and the effect of the interference would not be noticeable. The present invention has emphasized the need to excise high level interference to maintain linear system operation and described a method to determine an interference threshold for that purpose. In some CDMA applications where the processing gain of the CDMA waveform is not adequate to restore the BER performance without interference reducing the interference threshold level to excise additional interference components may be advantageous.

Thus it may be seen that excising interference in the manner described herein e.g. using system illustrated in to implement method illustrated in may substantially reduce the BER of broad bandwidth multiplexed signals and thus may facilitate transmission reception demultiplexing and decoding of such signals.

While various illustrative embodiments of the invention are described above it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the invention. For example interference reduction system may be configured to work with and to be coupled to a pre existing receiver or transponder but need not necessarily be considered to be an integral part of such a receiver or transponder and indeed suitably may be used with any circuitry that would benefit from interference reduction. The appended claims are intended to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

