---

title: Pyrrolidine-1,2-dicarboxamide derivatives
abstract: 

or a salt thereof, wherein the substituents are as defined in the description, to compositions and use of the compounds in the treatment of diseases ameloriated by inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08710085&OS=08710085&RS=08710085
owner: Novartis AG
number: 08710085
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20130524
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 488 589 filed 5 Jun. 2012 which is a Continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 227 462 granted on 24 Jul. 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 096 674 filed 12 Sep. 2008 and to EP Application Serial No. 08164104.5 filed 10 Sep. 2008 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to specific 2 carboxamide cycloamino urea derivatives as new alpha selective phosphatidylinositol PI 3 kinase inhibitor compounds their pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs thereof and processes for their production. This invention also relates to compositions of these compounds either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent and optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. This invention still further relates to methods of use of these compounds either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent in the treatment of a number of diseases in particular those mediated by one or more of abnormal activity of growth factors receptor tyrosine kinases protein serine heroine kinases G protein coupled receptors and phospholipid kinases and phosphatases.

Phosphatidylinositol 3 kinases PI3Ks comprise a family of lipid kinases that catalyze the transfer of phosphate to the D 3 position of inositol lipids to produce phosphoinositol 3 phosphate PIP phosphoinositol 3 4 diphosphate PIP and phosphoinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate PIP that in turn act as second messengers in signaling cascades by docking proteins containing pleckstrin homology FYVE Phox and other phospholipid binding domains into a variety of signaling complexes often at the plasma membrane Vanhaesebroeck et al. 70 535 2001 Katso et al. 17 615 2001 . Of the two Class 1 PI3Ks Class 1A PI3Ks are heterodimers composed of a catalytic p110 subunit isoforms constitutively associated with a regulatory subunit that can be p85 p55 p50 p85 or p55 . The Class 1B sub class has one family member a heterodimer composed of a catalytic p110 subunit associated with one of two regulatory subunits p101 or p84 Fruman et al. 67 481 1998 Suire et al. 15 566 2005 . The modular domains of the p85 55 50 subunits include Src Homology SH2 domains that bind phosphotyrosine residues in a specific sequence context on activated receptor and cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases resulting in activation and localization of Class 1A PI3Ks. Class 1B PI3K is activated directly by G protein coupled receptors that bind a diverse repertoire of peptide and non peptide ligands Stephens et al. 89 105 1997 Katso et al. 17 615 675 2001 . Consequently the resultant phospholipid products of class I PI3K link upstream receptors with downstream cellular activities including proliferation survival chemotaxis cellular trafficking motility metabolism inflammatory and allergic responses transcription and translation Cantley et al. 64 281 1991 Escobedo and Williams 335 85 1988 Fantl et al. 69 413 1992 .

In many cases PIP2 and PIP3 recruit Aid the product of the human homologue of the viral oncogene v Akt to the plasma membrane where it acts as a nodal point for many intracellular signaling pathways important for growth and survival Fantl et al. 69 413 423 1992 Bader et al. 5 921 2005 Vivanco and Sawyer 2 489 2002 . Aberrant regulation of PI3K which often increases survival through Aid activation is one of the most prevalent events in human cancer and has been shown to occur at multiple levels. The tumor suppressor gene PTEN which dephosphorylates phosphoinositides at the 3 position of the inositol ring and in so doing antagonizes PI3K activity is functionally deleted in a variety of tumors. In other tumors the genes for the p110 isoform PIK3CA and for Akt are amplified and increased protein expression of their gene products has been demonstrated in several human cancers. Furthermore mutations and translocation of p85 that serve to up regulate the p85 p110 complex have been described in human cancers. Finally somatic missense mutations in PIK3CA that activate downstream signaling pathways have been described at significant frequencies in a wide diversity of human cancers Kang at el. 102 802 2005 Samuels et al. 304 554 2004 Samuels et al. 7 561 573 2005 . These observations show that deregulation of phosphoinositol 3 kinase and the upstream and downstream components of this signaling pathway is one of the most common deregulations associated with human cancers and proliferative diseases Parsons et al. 436 792 2005 Hennessey at el. 4 988 1004 2005 .

In view of the above inhibitors of PI3K alpha would be of particular value in the treatment of proliferative disease and other disorders.

WO2004 096797 discloses certain thiazole derivatives as inhibitors of PI3K gamma and their pharmaceutical use particularly for the treatment of inflammatory and allergic conditions.

WO 2005 021519 also discloses certain thiazole derivatives as inhibitors of PI3K gamma and their pharmaceutical use particularly for the treatment of inflammatory and allergic conditions.

WO 2006 051270 also discloses certain thiazole derivatives as inhibitors of PI3K alpha and their pharmaceutical use particularly due to anti tumor activity.

WO 2007 129044 also discloses certain thiazole derivatives as inhibitors of PI3K alpha and their pharmaceutical use particularly due to anti tumor activity.

In view of the prior art there is a need to provide further compounds suitable for treatment of proliferative diseases particularly to provide compounds having improved selectivity and or higher improved activity.

It has now been found that the 2 carboxamide cycloamino urea derivatives of the formula I given below have advantageous pharmacological properties and inhibit for example PI3K phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase . In particular these compounds preferrably show an improved selectivity for PI3K alpha with respect to beta and or delta and or gamma subtypes. Hence the compounds of formula I are suitable for example to be used in the treatment of diseases depending on PI3 kinases in particular PI3K alpha such as those showing overexpression or amplification of PI3K alpha somatic mutation of PIK3CA or germline mutations or somatic mutation of PTEN or mutations and translocation of p85 that serve to up regulate the p85 p110 complex especially proliferative diseases such as tumor diseases and leukaemias. Further these compounds preferably show improved metabolic stability and hence reduced clearance leading to improved pharmacokinetic profiles.

The invention may be more fully appreciated by reference to the following description including the following glossary of terms and the concluding examples. For the sake of brevity the disclosures of the publications cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference. As used herein the terms including containing and comprising are used herein in their open non limiting sense.

Any formula given herein is intended to represent compounds having structures depicted by the structural formula as well as certain variations or forms. In particular compounds of any formula given herein may have asymmetric centers and therefore exist in different enantiomeric forms. If at least one asymmetrical carbon atom is present in a compound of the formula I such a compound may exist in optically active form or in the form of a mixture of optical isomers e.g. in the form of a racemic mixture. All optical isomers and their mixtures including the racemic mixtures are part of the present invention. Thus any given formula given herein is intended to represent a racemate one or more enantiomeric forms one or more diastereomeric forms one or more atropisomeric forms and mixtures thereof. Furthermore certain structures may exist as geometric isomers i.e. cis and trans isomers as tautomers or as atropisomers.

Any formula given herein is intended to represent hydrates solvates and polymorphs of such compounds and mixtures thereof.

Any formula given herein is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as well as isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have structures depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N F P P S Cl I respectively. The invention includes various isotopically labeled compounds as defined herein for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H C and C are present. Such isotopically labelled compounds are useful in metabolic studies preferably with C reaction kinetic studies with for example H or H detection or imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography PET or single photon emission computed tomography SPECT including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays or in radioactive treatment of patients. In particular an F or labeled compound may be particularly preferred for PET or SPECT studies. Isotopically labeled compounds of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Further substitution with heavier isotopes particularly deuterium i.e. H or D may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements or an improvement in therapeutic index. It is understood that deuterium in this context is regarded as a substituent of a compound of the formula I . The concentration of such a heavier isotope specifically deuterium may be defined by the isotopic enrichment factor. The term isotopic enrichment factor as used herein means the ratio between the isotopic abundance and the natural abundance of a specified isotope. If a substituent in a compound of this invention is denoted deuterium such compound has an isotopic enrichment factor for each designated deuterium atom of at least 3500 52.5 deuterium incorporation at each designated deuterium atom at least 4000 60 deuterium incorporation at least 4500 67.5 deuterium incorporation at least 5000 75 deuterium incorporation at least 5500 82.5 deuterium incorporation at least 6000 90 deuterium incorporation at least 6333.3 95 deuterium incorporation at least 6466.7 97 deuterium incorporation at least 6600 99 deuterium incorporation or at least 6633.3 99.5 deuterium incorporation . In the compounds of this invention any atom not specifically designated as a particular isotope is meant to represent any stable isotope of that atom. Unless otherwise stated when a position is designated specifically as H or hydrogen the position is understood to have hydrogen at its natural abundance isotopic composition. Accordingly in the compounds of this invention any atom specifically designated as a deuterium D is meant to represent deuterium for example in the ranges given above.

When referring to any formula given herein the selection of a particular moiety from a list of possible species for a specified variable is not intended to define the moiety for the variable appearing elsewhere. In other words where a variable appears more than once the choice of the species from a specified list is independent of the choice of the species for the same variable elsewhere in the formula where one or more up to all more general expressions in embodiments characterized as preferred above or below can be replaced with a more specific definition thus leading to a more preferred embodiment of the invention respectively .

Where the plural form e.g. compounds salts is used this includes the singular e.g. a single compound a single salt . A compound does not exclude that e.g. in a pharmaceutical formulation more than one compound of the formula I or a salt thereof is present.

Halogen or halo denotes fluorine bromine chlorine or iodine in particular fluorine chlorine. Halogen substituted groups and moieties such as alkyl substituted by halogen haloalkyl can be mono poly or per halogenated.

Hetero atoms are atoms other than Carbon and Hydrogen preferably nitrogen N oxygen O or sulfur S in particular nitrogen.

Carbon containing groups moieties or molecules contain 1 to 7 preferably 1 to 6 more preferably 1 to 4 most preferably 1 or 2 carbon atoms. Any non cyclic carbon containing group or moiety with more than 1 carbon atom is straight chain or branched.

The prefix lower or C C denotes a radical having up to and including a maximum of 7 especially up to and including a maximum of 4 carbon atoms the radicals in question being either linear or branched with single or multiple branching.

 Alkyl refers to a straight chain or branched chain alkyl group preferably represents a straight chain or branched chain Calkyl particularly preferably represents a straight chain or branched chain Calkyl for example methyl ethyl n or iso propyl n iso sec or tert butyl n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl n octyl n nonyl n decyl n undecyl n dodecyl with particular preference given to methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl and n butyl and iso butyl. Alkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted. Exemplary substituents include but are not limited to deuterium hydroxy alkoxy halo and amino. An example of a substituted alkyl is trifluoromethyl. Cycloalkyl may also be a substituent to alkyl. An example of such a case is the moiety alkyl cyclopropyl or alkandiyl cycloproyl e.g. CH cyclopropyl. C C alkyl is preferably alkyl with from and including 1 up to and including 7 preferably from and including 1 to and including 4 and is linear or branched preferably lower alkyl is butyl such as n butyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl propyl such as n propyl or isopropyl ethyl or preferably methyl.

Each alkyl part of other groups like alkoxy alkoxyalkyl alkoxycarbonyl alkoxycarbonylalkyl alkylsulfonyl alkylsulfoxyl alkylamino haloalkyl shall have the same meaning as described in the above mentioned definition of alkyl .

 Alkandiyl refers to a straight chain or branched chain alkandiyl group bound by two different Carbon atoms to the moiety it preferably represents a straight chain or branched chain Calkandiyl particularly preferably represents a straight chain or branched chain Calkandiyl for example methandiyl CH 1 2 ethanediyl CH CH 1 1 ethanediyl CH CH 1 1 1 2 1 3 propanediyl and 1 1 1 2 1 3 1 4 butanediyl with particular preference given to methandiyl 1 1 ethanediyl 1 2 ethanediyl 1 3 propanediyl 1 4 butanediyl.

 Alkendiyl refers to a straight chain or branched chain alkendiyl group bound by two different Carbon atoms to the molecule it preferably represents a straight chain or branched chain Calkandiyl for example CH CH CH C CH CH CH CH C CH CH CH CH C CH CH CH CH C CH H CH CH CH CH C CH CH CH CH CH C CH CH CH with particular preference given to CH CH CH CH CH CH CH . Alkendiyl may be substituted or unsubstituted

 Cycloalkyl refers to a saturated or partially saturated monocyclic fused polycyclic or Spiro polycyclic carbocycle having from 3 to 12 ring atoms per carbocycle. Illustrative examples of cycloalkyl groups include the following moieties cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclpentyl and cylclohexyl. Cycloalkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted exemplary substituents are provided in the definition for alkyl and also include alkyl itself e.g. methyl . A moiety like CH cyclopropyl is considered substituted cycloalkyl.

 Aryl refers to an aromatic homocyclic ring system i.e. only Carbon as ring forming atoms with 6 or more carbon atoms aryl is preferably an aromatic moiety with 6 to 14 ring carbon atoms more preferably with 6 to 10 ring carbon atoms such as phenyl or naphthyl preferably phenyl. Aryl may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more preferably up to three more preferably up to two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted or substituted heterocyclyl as described below especially pyrrolidinyl such as pyrrolidino oxopyrrolidinyl such as oxopyrrolidino C C alkyl pyrrolidinyl 2 5 di C Calkyl pyrrolidinyl such as 2 5 di C Calkyl pyrrolidino tetrahydrofuranyl thiophenyl C C alkylpyrazolidinyl pyridinyl C C alkylpiperidinyl piperidino piperidino substituted by amino or N mono or N N di lower alkyl phenyl C C alkanoyl and or phenyl lower alkyl amino unsubstituted or N lower alkyl substituted piperidinyl bound via a ring carbon atom piperazino lower alkylpiperazino morpholino thiomorpholino S oxo thiomorpholino or S S dioxothiomorpholino C C alkyl amino C C alkyl N C C alkanoylamino C C alkyl N C C alkanesulfonyl amino C C alkyl carbamoyl C C alkyl N mono or N N di C C alkyl carbamoyl C C alkyl C C alkanesulfinyl C C alkyl C C alkanesulfonyl C C alkyl phenyl naphthyl mono to tri C C alkyl halo and or cyano phenyl or mono to tri C C alkyl halo and or cyano naphthyl C C cycloalkyl mono to tri C C alkyl and or hydroxy C C cycloalkyl halo hydroxy lower alkoxy lower alkoxy lower alkoxy lower alkoxy lower alkoxy lower alkoxy halo C C alkoxy phenoxy naphthyloxy phenyl or naphthyl lower alkoxy amino C C alkoxy lower alkanoyloxy benzoyloxy naphthoyloxy formyl CHO amino N mono or N N di C C alkyl amino C C alkanoylamino C C alkanesulfonylamino carboxy lower alkoxy carbonyl e.g. phenyl or naphthyl lower alkoxycarbonyl such as benzyloxycarbonyl C C alkanoyl such as acetyl benzoyl naphthoyl carbamoyl N mono or N N disubstituted carbamoyl such as N mono or N N di substituted carbamoyl wherein the substitutents are selected from lower alkyl lower alkoxy lower alkyl and hydroxy lower alkyl amidino guanidino ureido mercapto lower alkylthio phenyl or naphthylthio phenyl or naphthyl lower alkylthio lower alkyl phenylthio lower alkyl naphthylthio halo lower alkylmercapto sulfo SOH lower alkanesulfonyl phenyl or naphthyl sulfonyl phenyl or naphthyl lower alkylsulfonyl alkylphenylsulfonyl halo lower alkylsulfonyl such as trifluoromethanesulfonyl sulfonamido benzosulfonamido azido azido C C alkyl especially azidomethyl C C alkanesulfonyl sulfamoyl N mono or N N di C C alkyl sulfannoyl morpholinosulfonyl thiomorpholinosulfonyl cyano and nitro where each phenyl or naphthyl also in phenoxy or naphthoxy mentioned above as substituent or part of a substituent of substituted alkyl or also of substituted aryl heterocyclyl etc. mentioned herein is itself unsubstituted or substituted by one or more e.g. up to three preferably 1 or 2 substituents independently selected from halo halo lower alkyl such as trifluoromethyl hydroxy lower alkoxy azido amino N mono or N N di lower alkyl and or C C alkanoyl amino nitro carboxy lower alkoxycarbonyl carbamoyl cyano and or sulfamoyl.

 Heterocyclyl refers to a heterocyclic radical that is unsaturated carrying the highest possible number of conjugated double bonds in the ring s saturated or partially saturated and is preferably a monocyclic or in a broader aspect of the invention bicyclic tricyclic or spirocyclic ring and has 3 to 24 more preferably 4 to 16 most preferably 5 to 10 and most preferably 5 or 6 ring atoms wherein one or more preferably one to four especially one or two ring atoms are a heteroatom the remaining ring atoms therefore being carbon . The bonding ring i.e. the ring connecting to the molecule preferably has 4 to 12 especially 5 to 7 ring atoms. The term heterocyclyl also includes heteroaryl. The heterocyclic radical heterocyclyl may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more especially 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of the substituents defined above for substituted alkyl and or from one or more of the following substituents oxo O thiocarbonyl imino NH imino lower alkyl. Further heterocyclyl is especially a heterocyclyl radical selected from the group consisting of oxiranyl azirinyl aziridinyl 1 2 oxathiolanyl thienyl thiophenyl furanyl tetrahydrofuryl pyranyl thiopyranyl thianthrenyl isobenzofuranyl benzofuranyl chromenyl 2H pyrrolyl pyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolidinyl benzimidazolyl pyrazolyl pyrazinyl pyrazolidinyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl dithiazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl pyridyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl pyridazinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl S oxo or S S dioxo thiomorpholinyl indolizinyl azepanyl diazepanyl especially 1 4 diazepanyl isoindolyl 3H indolyl indolyl benzimidazolyl cumaryl indazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl purinyl 4H quinolizinyl isoquinolyl quinolyl tetrahydroquinolyl tetrahydroisoquinolyl decahydroquinolyl octahydroisoquinolyl benzofuranyl dibenzofuranyl benzothiophenyl dibenzothiophenyl phthalazinyl naphthyridinyl quinoxalyl quinazolinyl quinazolinyl cinnolinyl pteridinyl carbazolyl beta carbolinyl phenanthridinyl acridinyl perimidinyl phenanthrolinyl furazanyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxazinyl chromenyl isochromanyl chromanyl benzo 1 3 dioxol 5 yl and 2 3 dihydro benzo 1 4 dioxin 6 yl each of these radicals being unsubstituted or substituted by one or more preferably up to three substituents selected from those mentioned above for substituted aryl and or from one or more of the following substituents oxo O thiocarbonyl S imino NH imino lower alkyl.

 Arylalkyl refers to an aryl group bound to the molecule via an alkyl group such as a methyl or ethyl group preferably phenethyl or benzyl in particular benzyl. Similarly cycloalkyl alkyl and heterocyclyl alkyl represents a cycloalkyl group bound to the molecule via an alkyl group or a heterocyclyl group bound to the molecule via an alkyl group. In each instance aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl and alkyl may be substituted as defined above.

 Treatment includes prophylactic preventive and therapeutic treatment as well as the delay of progression of a disease or disorder.

 PI3 kinase mediated diseases especially PI3K alpha mediated diseases or diseases mediated by overexpression or amplification of PI3K alpha somatic mutation of PIK3CA or germline mutations or somatic mutation of PTEN or mutations and translocation of p85 that serve to up regulate the p85 p110 complex are especially such disorders that respond in a beneficial way e.g. amelioration of one or more symptoms delay of the onset of a disease up to temporary or complete cure from a disease to the inhibition of a PI3 kinase especially inhibition of PI3Kalpha or a mutant form thereof where among the diseases to be treated proliferative diseases such as tumor diseases and leukaemias may be especially mentioned .

 Salts which what is meant by or salts thereof or or a salt thereof can be present alone or in mixture with free compound of the formula I and are preferably pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Such salts are formed for example as acid addition salts preferably with organic or inorganic acids from compounds of formula I with a basic nitrogen atom especially the pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Suitable inorganic acids are for example halogen acids such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid or phosphoric acid. Suitable organic acids are e.g. carboxylic acids or sulfonic acids such as fumaric acid or methansulfonic acid. For isolation or purification purposes it is also possible to use pharmaceutically unacceptable salts for example picrates or perchlorates. For therapeutic use only pharmaceutically acceptable salts or free compounds are employed where applicable in the form of pharmaceutical preparations and these are therefore preferred. In view of the close relationship between the novel compounds in free form and those in the form of their salts including those salts that can be used as intermediates for example in the purification or identification of the novel compounds any reference to the free compounds hereinbefore and hereinafter is to be understood as referring also to the corresponding salts as appropriate and expedient. The salts of compounds of formula I are preferably pharmaceutically acceptable salts suitable counter ions forming pharmaceutically acceptable salts are known in the field.

 Combination refers to either a fixed combination in one dosage unit form or a kit of parts for the combined administration where a compound of the formula I and a combination partner e.g. another drug as explained below also referred to as therapeutic agent or co agent may be administered independently at the same time or separately within time intervals especially where these time intervals allow that the combination partners show a cooperative e.g. synergistic effect. The terms co administration or combined administration or the like as utilized herein are meant to encompass administration of the selected combination partner to a single subject in need thereof e.g. a patient and are intended to include treatment regimens in which the agents are not necessarily administered by the same route of administration or at the same time. The term pharmaceutical combination as used herein means a product that results from the mixing or combining of more than one active ingredient and includes both fixed and non fixed combinations of the active ingredients. The term fixed combination means that the active ingredients e.g. a compound of formula I and a combination partner are both administered to a patient simultaneously in the form of a single entity or dosage. The term non fixed combination means that the active ingredients e.g. a compound of formula I and a combination partner are both administered to a patient as separate entities either simultaneously concurrently or sequentially with no specific time limits wherein such administration provides therapeutically effective levels of the two compounds in the body of the patient. The latter also applies to cocktail therapy e.g. the administration of three or more active ingredients.

In preferred embodiments which are preferred independently collectively or in any combination or sub combination the invention relates to a compound of the formula I in free base form or in acid addition salt form wherein the substituents are as defined herein.

Thus a compound of formula I also includes compounds of formula IA and IB . In the context of this invention the following definitions are also applicable.

The invention further relates to a compound of formula I as defined herein with the exception of such compounds where Rand or Rrepresents tert butyl.

The invention further relates to pharmaceutically acceptable metabolites of a compound of formula I .

The invention relates especially to the compounds of the formula I given in the Examples as well as the methods of manufacture described therein.

The present invention also relates to processes for the production of a compound of formula I . In principle all known processes which convert two different amines into a corresponding urea derivative are suitable and may be applied by using the respective starting material.

Thus the invention in particular relates to a process for manufacturing a compound of formula I which comprises reacting a compound of formula II 

The process may be performed according to methods known in the art or as disclosed below in the Examples. For example a compound of formula II may be reacted with a compound of formula III in a solvent e.g. dimethylformamide in the presence of a base e.g. an organic amine e.g. triethylamine.

Where temperatures are given hereinbefore or hereinafter about has to be added as minor deviations from the numeric values given e.g. variations of 10 are tolerable.

All reactions may take place in the presence of one or more diluents and or solvents. The starting materials may be used in equimolar amounts alternatively a compound may be used in excess e.g. to function as a solvent or to shift equilibrium or to generally accelerate reaction rates.

Reaction aids such as acids bases or catalysts may be added in suitable amounts as known in the field required by a reaction and in line with generally known procedures.

If one or more other functional groups for example carboxy hydroxy amino sulfhydryl or the like are or need to be protected in a starting material as described herein or any other precursor because they should not take part in the reaction or disturb the reaction these are such groups as are usually used in the synthesis of peptide compounds and also of cephalosporins and penicillins as well as nucleic acid derivatives and sugars. Protecting groups are such groups that are no longer present in the final compounds once they are removed while groups that remain as substituents are not protecting groups in the sense used here which are groups that are added at a starting material or intermediate stage and removed to obtain a final compound. Also in the case of conversions of a compound of the formula I into a different compound of the formula I protecting groups may be introduced and removed if useful or required.

The protecting groups may already be present in precursors and should protect the functional groups concerned against unwanted secondary reactions such as acylations etherifications esterifications oxidations solvolysis and similar reactions. It is a characteristic of protecting groups that they lend themselves readily i.e. without undesired secondary reactions to removal typically by acetolysis protonolysis solvolysis reduction photolysis or also by enzyme activity for example under conditions analogous to physiological conditions and that they are not present in the end products. The specialist knows or can easily establish which protecting groups are suitable with the reactions mentioned above and below.

The protection of such functional groups by such protecting groups the protecting groups themselves and their removal reactions are described for example in standard reference works such as J. F. W. McOmie Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry Plenum Press London and New York 1973 in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Third edition Wiley New York 1999 in The Peptides Volume 3 editors E. Gross and J. Meienhofer Academic Press London and New York 1981 in Methoden der organischen Chemie Houben Weyl 4th edition Volume 15 l Georg Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974 in H. D. Jakubke and H. Jescheit Aminos uren Peptide Proteine Verlag Chemie Weinheim Deerfield Beach and Basel 1982 and in Jochen Lehmann Chemie der Kohlenhydrate Monosaccharide and Derivate Georg Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974.

In a compound of the formula I wherein Rrepresents fluoro such compound may be obtained by converting the corresponding chlorine derivative into the fluoro compound. Such reactions are known and referred to as substitution reactions. This conversion may take place at the step of the starting material of formula IIIA or B or by converting a corresponding compound of formula I.

In a compound of the formula I wherein a substituent carries an amino or amino C C alkyl substituent the amino can be converted into acylamino e.g. C C alkanoylamino or C C alkanesulfonylamino by reaction with a corresponding C C alkanoylhalogenide or C C alkanesulfonylhalogenide e.g. a corresponding chloride in the presence of a tertiary nitrogen base such as triethylamine or pyridine in the absence or presence of an appropriate solvent such a methylene chloride for example at temperatures in the range from 20 to 50 C. e.g. at about room temperature.

In a compound of the formula I wherein a substituent carries a cyano substituent the cyano may be converted to an aminomethyl group e.g. by hydrogenation in the presence of an appropriate metal catalyst such as Raney Nickel or Raney Cobalt in an appropriate solvent e.g. a lower alkanol such as methanol and or ethanol for example at temperatures in the range from 20 to 50 C. e.g. at about room temperature.

Salts of a compound of formula I with a salt forming group may be prepared in a manner known per se. Acid addition salts of compounds of formula I may thus be obtained by treatment with an acid or with a suitable anion exchange reagent. A salt with two acid molecules for example a dihalogenide of a compound of formula I may also be converted into a salt with one acid molecule per compound for example a monohalogenide this may be done by heating to a melt or for example by heating as a solid under a high vacuum at elevated temperature for example from 130 to 170 C. one molecule of the acid being expelled per molecule of a compound of formula I. Salts can usually be converted to free compounds e.g. by treating with suitable basic compounds for example with alkali metal carbonates alkali metal hydrogencarbonates or alkali metal hydroxides typically potassium carbonate or sodium hydroxide.

Stereoisomeric mixtures e.g. mixtures of diastereomers can be separated into their corresponding isomers in a manner known per se by means of suitable separation methods. Diastereomeric mixtures for example may be separated into their individual diastereomers by means of fractionated crystallization chromatography solvent distribution and similar procedures. This separation may take place either at the level of a starting compound or in a compound of formula I itself. Enantiomers may be separated through the formation of diastereomeric salts for example by salt formation with an enantiomer pure chiral acid or by means of chromatography for example by HPLC using chromatographic substrates with chiral ligands.

It should be emphasized that reactions analogous to the conversions mentioned in this chapter may also take place at the level of appropriate intermediates and are thus useful in the preparation of corresponding starting materials .

The starting materials of the formulae II and III as well as other starting materials mentioned herein e.g. below can be prepared according to or in analogy to methods that are known in the art are known in the art and or are commercially available. Insofar as the production of the starting materials is not particularly described the compounds are either known or may be prepared analogously to methods known in the art e.g. in WO 05 021519 or WO04 096797 or as disclosed hereinafter. Novel starting materials as well as processes for the preparation thereof are likewise an embodiment of the present invention. In the preferred embodiments such starting materials are used and the reaction chosen are selected so as to enable the preferred compounds to be obtained.

In the starting materials including intermediates which may also be used and or obtained as salts where appropriate and expedient the substituents are preferably as defined for a compound of the formula I .

The present invention further relates to processes for the production of a compound of formula IIIA . In principle all known processes which couple two aryl heteroaryl components such as Heck type reactions into a corresponding urea derivative are suitable and may be applied by using the respective starting material. The invention thus also relates to a process for preparing a compound of formula IIIA which comprises

 Step 2 followed by removal of the protective group e.g. under acidic conditions optionally in the presence of a diluent and optionally in the presence of a reaction aid and recovering the resulting compound of formula IIIA in free form or in form of a salt and optionally converting a compound of the formula IIIA obtained into a different compound of the formula IIIA and or converting an obtained salt of a compound of the formula IIIA into a different salt thereof and or converting an obtainable free compound of the formula IIIA into a salt thereof and or separating an obtainable isomer of a compound of the formula IIIA from one or more different obtained isomers of the formula IIIA .

The present invention further relates to processes for the production of a compound of formula IIIB . In principle all known processes which convert an amine or salt thereof into a corresponding activated derivative are suitable and may be applied by using the respective starting material. The invention thus also relates to a process for preparing a compound of formula IIIB which comprises reacting a compound of formula IIIA 

The present invention further relates to processes for the production of a compound of formula IIIC . In principle all ring closing reactions are suitable and may be applied by using the respective starting material. The invention thus also relates to a process for preparing a compound of formula IIIC which comprises reacting a compound of formula VI 

The present invention further relates to processes for the production of a compound of formula IIID . In principle all known processes which convert an amine or salt thereof into a corresponding activated derivative are suitable and may be applied by using the respective starting material. The invention thus also relates to a process for preparing a compound of formula IIID which comprises reacting a compound of formula IIIC 

The present invention further relates to processes for the production of a compound of formula VI . In principle all known processes suitable for such a conversion may be applied by using the respective starting material. The invention thus also relates to a process for preparing a compound of formula IIID which comprises reacting a compound of formula IIX 

In one embodiment the invention relates to the treatment of cellular proliferative diseases such as tumor and or cancerous cell growth mediated by PI3K. Diseases may include those showing overexpression or amplification of PI3K alpha somatic mutation of PIK3CA or germline mutations or somatic mutation of PTEN or mutations and translocation of p85 that serve to up regulate the p85 p110 complex. In particular the compounds are useful in the treatment of human or animal e.g. murine cancers including for example sarcoma lung bronchus prostate breast including sporadic breast cancers and sufferers of Cowden disease pancreas gastrointestinal cancer colon rectum colon carcinoma colorectal adenoma thyroid liver intrahepatic bile duct hepatocellular adrenal gland stomach gastric glioma glioblastoma endometrial melanoma kidney renal pelvis urinary bladder uterine corpus uterine cervix vagina ovary multiple myeloma esophagus a leukaemia acute myelogenous leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia lymphocytic leukemia myeloid leukemia brain a carcinoma of the brain oral cavity and pharynx larynx small intestine non Hodgkin lymphoma melanoma villous colon adenoma a neoplasia a neoplasia of epithelial character lymphomas a mammary carcinoma basal cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma actinic keratosis tumor diseases including solid tumors a tumor of the neck or head polycythemia vera essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia and Walden stroem disease.

In other embodiments the condition or disorder e.g. PI3K mediated is selected from the group consisting of polycythemia vera essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia asthma COPD ARDS Loffler s syndrome eosinophilic pneumonia parasitic in particular metazoan infestation including tropical eosinophilia bronchopulmonary aspergillosis polyarteritis nodosa including Churg Strauss syndrome eosinophilic granuloma eosinophil related disorders affecting the airways occasioned by drug reaction psoriasis contact dermatitis atopic dermatitis alopecia areata erythema multiforme dermatitis herpetiformis scleroderma vitiligo hypersensitivity angiitis urticaria bullous pemphigoid lupus erythematosus pemphisus epidermolysis bullosa acquisita autoimmune haematogical disorders e.g. haemolytic anaemia aplastic anaemia pure red cell anaemia and idiopathic thrombocytopenia systemic lupus erythematosus polychondritis scleroderma Wegener granulomatosis dermatomyositis chronic active hepatitis myasthenia gravis Steven Johnson syndrome idiopathic sprue autoimmune inflammatory bowel disease e.g. ulcerative colitis and Crohn s disease endocrine ophthalmopathy Grave s disease sarcoidosis alveolitis chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis multiple sclerosis primary biliary cirrhosis uveitis anterior and posterior interstitial lung fibrosis psoriatic arthritis glomerulonephritis cardiovascular diseases atherosclerosis hypertension deep venous thrombosis stroke myocardial infarction unstable angina thromboembolism pulmonary embolism thrombolytic diseases acute arterial ischemia peripheral thrombotic occlusions and coronary artery disease reperfusion injuries retinopathy such as diabetic retinopathy or hyperbaric oxygen induced retinopathy and conditions characterized by elevated intraocular pressure or secretion of ocular aqueous humor such as glaucoma.

For the above uses the required dosage will of course vary depending on the mode of administration the particular condition to be treated and the effect desired. In general satisfactory results are indicated to be obtained systemically at daily dosages of from about 0.03 to about 100.0 mg kg per body weight e.g. about 0.03 to about 10.0 mg kg per body weight. An indicated daily dosage in the larger mammal e.g. humans is in the range from about 0.5 mg to about 3 g e.g. about 5 mg to about 1.5 g conveniently administered for example in divided doses up to four times a day or in retard form. Suitable unit dosage forms for oral administration comprise from ca. 0.1 to about 500 mg e.g. about 1.0 to about 500 mg active ingredient.

The compounds of formula I may be administered by any conventional route in particular enterally e.g. orally e.g. in the form of tablets or capsules or parenterally e.g. in the form of injectable solutions or suspensions topically e.g. in the form of lotions gels ointments or creams by inhalation intranasally or in a suppository form.

The compounds of formula I may be administered in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form e.g. as indicated above. Such salts may be prepared in conventional manner and exhibit the same order of activity as the free compounds.

PI3K serves as a second messenger node that integrates parallel signaling pathways evidence is emerging that the combination of a PI3K inhibitor with inhibitors of other pathways will be useful in treating cancer and proliferative diseases in humans.

Approximately 20 30 of human breast cancers overexpress Her 2 neu ErbB2 the target for the drug trastuzumab. Although trastuzumab has demonstrated durable responses in some patients expressing Her2 neu ErbB2 only a subset of these patients respond. Recent work has indicated that this limited response rate can be substantially improved by the combination of trastuzumab with inhibitors of PI3K or the PI3K AKT pathway Chan et al. Breast Can. Res. Treat. 91 187 2005 Woods Ignatoski et al. Brit. J. Cancer 82 666 2000 Nagata et al. Cancer Cell 6 117 2004 .

A variety of human malignancies express activating mutations or increased levels of Her1 EGFR and a number of antibody and small molecule inhibitors have been developed against this receptor tyrosine kinase including tarceva gefitinib and erbitux. However while EGFR inhibitors demonstrate anti tumor activity in certain human tumors e.g. NSCLC they fail to increase overall patient survival in all patients with EGFR expressing tumors. This may be rationalized by the fact that many downstream targets of Her1 EGFR are mutated or deregulated at high frequencies in a variety of malignancies including the PI3K Akt pathway. For example gefitinib inhibits the growth of an adenocarcinoma cell line in in vitro assays. Nonetheless sub clones of these cell lines can be selected that are resistant to gefitinib that demonstrate increased activation of the PI3 Akt pathway. Down regulation or inhibition of this pathway renders the resistant sub clones sensitive to gefitinib Kokubo et al. Brit. J. Cancer 92 1711 2005 . Furthermore in an in vitro model of breast cancer with a cell line that harbors a PTEN mutation and over expresses EGFR inhibition of both the PI3K Akt pathway and EGFR produced a synergistic effect She et al. Cancer Cell 8 287 297 2005 . These results indicate that the combination of gefitinib and PI3K Akt pathway inhibitors would be an attractive therapeutic strategy in cancer.

The combination of AEE778 an inhibitor of Her 2 neu ErbB2 VEGFR and EGFR and RAD001 an inhibitor of mTOR a downstream target of Akt produced greater combined efficacy that either agent alone in a glioblastoma xenograft model Goudar et al. Mol. Cancer. Ther. 4 101 112 2005 .

Anti estrogens such as tamoxifen inhibit breast cancer growth through induction of cell cycle arrest that requires the action of the cell cycle inhibitor p27Kip. Recently it has been shown that activation of the Ras Raf MAP Kinase pathway alters the phosphorylation status of p27Kip such that its inhibitory activity in arresting the cell cycle is attenuated thereby contributing to anti estrogen resistance Donovan et al J. Biol. Chem. 276 40888 2001 . As reported by Donovan et al. inhibition of MAPK signaling through treatment with MEK inhibitor reversed the aberrant phosphorylation status of p27 in hormone refractory breast cancer cell lines and in so doing restored hormone sensitivity. Similarly phosphorylation of p27Kip by Aid also abrogates its role to arrest the cell cycle Viglietto et al. Nat. Med. 8 1145 2002 .

Accordingly in a further aspect the compounds of formulas I are used in the treatment of hormone dependent cancers such as breast and prostate cancers. By this use it is aimed to reverse hormone resistance commonly seen in these cancers with conventional anticancer agents.

In hematological cancers such as chronic myelogenous leukemia CML chromosomal translocation is responsible for the constitutively activated BCR Abl tyrosine kinase. The afflicted patients are responsive to imatinib a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor as a result of inhibition of Abl kinase activity. However many patients with advanced stage disease respond to imatinib initially but then relapse later due to resistance conferring mutations in the Abl kinase domain. In vitro studies have demonstrated that BCR Ab1 employs the Ras Raf kinase pathway to elicit its effects. In addition inhibiting more than one kinase in the same pathway provides additional protection against resistance conferring mutations.

Accordingly in another aspect the compounds of formulas I are used in combination with at least one additional agent selected from the group of kinase inhibitors such as Gleevec in the treatment of hematological cancers such as chronic myelogenous leukemia CML . By this use it is aimed to reverse or prevent resistance to said at least one additional agent.

Because activation of the PI3K Akt pathway drives cell survival inhibition of the pathway in combination with therapies that drive apoptosis in cancer cells including radiotherapy and chemotherapy will result in improved responses Ghobrial et al. CA Cancer J. Clin 55 178 194 2005 . As an example combination of PI3 kinase inhibitor with carboplatin demonstrated synergistic effects in both in vitro proliferation and apoptosis assays as well as in in vivo tumor efficacy in a xenograft model of ovarian cancer Westfall and Skinner Mol. Cancer. Ther. 4 1764 1771 2005 .

In addition to cancer and proliferative diseases there is accumulating evidence that inhibitors of Class 1A and 1B PI3 kinases would be therapeutically useful in others disease areas. The inhibition of p110 the PI3K isoform product of the PIK3CB gene has been shown to be involved in shear induced platelet activation Jackson et al. Nature Medicine 11 507 514 2005 . Thus a PI3K inhibitor that inhibits p110 would be useful as a single agent or in combination in anti thrombotic therapy. The isoform p110 the product of the PIK3CD gene is important in B cell function and differentiation Clayton et al. J. Exp. Med. 196 753 763 2002 T cell dependent and independent antigen responses Jou et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 22 8580 8590 2002 and mast cell differentiation Ali et al. Nature 431 1007 1011 2004 . Thus it is expected that p110 inhibitors would be useful in the treatment of B cell driven autoimmune diseases and asthma. Finally the inhibition of p110 the isoform product of the PI3KCG gene results in reduced T but not B cell response Reif et al. J. Immunol. 173 2236 2240 2004 and its inhibition demonstrates efficacy in animal models of autoimmune diseases Camps et al. Nature Medicine 11 936 943 2005 Barber et al. Nature Medicine 11 933 935 2005 .

The invention further provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one compound of formula I together with a pharmaceutically acceptable excepient suitable for administration to a human or animal subject either alone or together with other anticancer agents.

The invention further provides methods of treating human or animal subjects suffering from a cellular proliferative disease such as cancer. The invention thus provides methods of treating a human or animal subject in need of such treatment comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I either alone or in combination with one or more other anticancer agents. In particular compositions will either be formulated together as a combination therapeutic or administered separately. Suitable anticancer agents for use with a compound of formula I include but are not limited to one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of kinase inhibitors anti estrogens anti androgens other inhibitors cancer chemotherapeutic drugs alkylating agents chelating agents biological response modifiers cancer vaccines agents for antisense therapy as set forth below 

Kinase inhibitors for use as anticancer agents in conjunction with the compound of the formula I include inhibitors of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor EGFR kinases such as small molecule quinazolines for example gefitinib U.S. Pat. No. 5 457 105 U.S. Pat. No. 5 616 582 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 770 599 ZD 6474 WO 01 32651 erlotinib Tarceva U.S. Pat. No. 5 747 498 and WO 96 30347 and Iapatinib U.S. Pat. No. 6 727 256 and WO 02 02552 Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor VEGFR kinase inhibitors including SU 11248 WO 01 60814 SU 5416 U.S. Pat. No. 5 883 113 and WO 99 61422 SU 6668 U.S. Pat. No. 5 883 113 and WO 99 61422 CHIR 258 U.S. Pat. No. 6 605 617 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 774 237 vatalanib or PTK 787 U.S. Pat. No. 6 258 812 VEGF Trap WO 02 57423 B43 Genistein WO 09606116 fenretinide retinoic acid p hydroxyphenylamine U.S. Pat. No. 4 323 581 IM 862 WO 02 62826 bevacizumab or Avastin WO 94 10202 KRN 951 3 5 methylsulfonylpiperadine methyl indolyl quinolone AG 13736 and AG 13925 pyrrolo 2 1 t 1 2 4 triazines ZK 304709 Veglin VMDA 3601 EG 004 CEP 701 U.S. Pat. No. 5 621 100 Candy WO 04 09769 Erb2 tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as pertuzumab WO 01 00245 trastuzumab and rituximab Aid protein kinase inhibitors such as RX 0201 Protein Kinase C PKC inhibitors such as LY 317615 WO 95 17182 and perifosine US 2003171303 Raf Map MEK Ras kinase inhibitors including sorafenib BAY 43 9006 ARQ 350RP LErafAON BMS 354825 AMG 548 and others disclosed in WO 03 82272 Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor FGFR kinase inhibitors Cell Dependent Kinase CDK inhibitors including CYC 202 or roscovitine WO 97 20842 and WO 99 02162 Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptor PDGFR kinase inhibitors such as CHIR 258 3G3 mAb AG 13736 SU 11248 and SU6668 and Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors and fusion proteins such as STI 571 or Gleevec imatinib .

Estrogen targeting agents for use in anticancer therapy in conjunction with the compound of formula I include Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulators SERMs including tamoxifen toremifene raloxifene aromatase inhibitors including Arimidex or anastrozole Estrogen Receptor Downregulators ERDs including Faslodex or fulvestrant.

Androgen targeting agents for use in anticancer therapy in conjunction with the compound of formula I include flutamide bicalutamide finasteride aminoglutethamide ketoconazole and corticosteroids.

Other inhibitors for use as anticancer agents in conjunction with the compound of formula I include protein farnesyl transferase inhibitors including tipifarnib or R 115777 US 2003134846 and WO 97 21701 BMS 214662 AZD 3409 and FTI 277 topoisomerase inhibitors including merbarone and diflomotecan BN 80915 mitotic kinesin spindle protein KSP inhibitors including SB 743921 and MKI 833 proteasome modulators such as bortezomib or Velcade U.S. Pat. No. 5 780 454 XL 784 and cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors including non steroidal antiinflammatory drugs I NSAIDs .

Particular cancer chemotherapeutic agents for use as anticancer agents in conjunction with the compound of formula I include anastrozole Arimidex bicalutamide Casodex bleomycin sulfate Blenoxane busulfan Myleran busulfan injection Busulfex capecitabine Xeloda N4 pentoxycarbonyl 5 deoxy 5 fluorocytidine carboplatin Paraplatin carmustine BiCNU chlorambucil Leukeran cisplatin Platinol cladribine Leustatin cyclophosphamide Cytoxan or Neosar cytarabine cytosine arabinoside Cytosar U cytarabine liposome injection DepoCyt dacarbazine DTIC Dome dactinomycin Actinomycin D Cosmegan daunorubicin hydrochloride Cerubidine daunorubicin citrate liposome injection DaunoXome dexamethasone docetaxel Taxotere doxorubicin hydrochloride Adriamycin Rubex etoposide Vepesid fludarabine phosphate Fludara 5 fluorouracil Adrucil Efudex flutamide Eulexin tezacitibine Gemcitabine difluorodeoxycitidine hydroxyurea Hydrea Idarubicin Idamycin ifosfamide IFEX irinotecan Camptosar L asparaginase ELSPAR leucovorin calcium melphalan Alkeran 6 mercaptopurine Purinethol methotrexate Folex mitoxantrone Novantrone mylotarg paclitaxel Taxol phoenix Yttrium90 MX DTPA pentostatin polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant Gliadel tamoxifen citrate Nolvadex teniposide Vumon 6 thioguanine thiotepa tirapazamine Tirazone topotecan hydrochloride for injection Hycamptin vinblastine Velban vincristine Oncovin and vinorelbine Navelbin .

Alkylating agents for use in conjunction with the compound of formula I include VNP 40101M or cloretizine oxaliplatin U.S. Pat. No. 4 169 846 WO 03 24978 and WO 03 04505 glufosfamide mafosfamide etopophos U.S. Pat. No. 5 041 424 prednimustine treosulfan busulfan irofluven acylfulvene penclomedine pyrazoloacridine PD 115934 O6 benzylguanine decitabine 5 aza 2 deoxycytidine brostallicin mitomycin C MitoExtra TLK 286 Telcyta temozolomide trabectedin U.S. Pat. No. 5 478 932 AP 5280 Platinate formulation of Cisplatin porfiromycin and clearazide meclorethamine .

Chelating agents for use in conjunction with the compound of formula I include tetrathiomolybdate WO 01 60814 RP 697 Chimeric T84.66 cT84.66 gadofosveset Vasovist deferoxamine and bleomycin optionally in combination with electroporation EPT .

Biological response modifiers such as immune modulators for use in conjunction with the compound of formula I include staurosprine and macrocyclic analogs thereof including UCN 01 CEP 701 and midostaurin see WO 02 30941 WO 97 07081 WO 89 07105 U.S. Pat. No. 5 621 100 WO 93 07153 WO 01 04125 WO 02 30941 WO 93 08809 WO 94 06799 WO 00 27422 WO 96 13506 and WO 88 07045 squalamine WO 01 79255 DA 9601 WO 98 04541 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 025 387 alemtuzumab interferons e.g. IFN a IFN b etc. interleukins specifically IL 2 or aldesleukin as well as IL 1 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 9 IL 10 IL 11 IL 12 and active biological variants thereof having amino acid sequences greater than 70 of the native human sequence altretamine Hexylen SU 101 or leflunomide WO 04 06834 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 331 555 imidazoquinolines such as resiquimod and imiquimod U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 689 338 5 389 640 5 268 376 4 929 624 5 266 575 5 352 784 5 494 916 5 482 936 5 346 905 5 395 937 5 238 944 and 5 525 612 and SMIPs including benzazoles anthraquinones thiosemicarbazones and tryptanthrins WO 04 87153 WO 04 64759 and WO 04 60308 .

Anticancer vaccines for use in conjunction with the compound of formula I include Avicine Tetrahedron Lett. 26 2269 70 1974 oregovomab OvaRex Theratope STn KLH Melanoma Vaccines GI 4000 series GI 4014 GI 4015 and GI 4016 which are directed to five mutations in the Ras protein GlioVax 1 MelaVax Advexin or INGN 201 WO 95 12660 Sig E7 LAMP 1 encoding HPV 16 E7 MAGE 3 Vaccine or M3TK WO 94 05304 HER 2VAX ACTIVE which stimulates T cells specific for tumors GM CSF cancer vaccine and Listeria monocytogenes based vaccines.

Anticancer agents for use in conjunction with the compound of formula I also include antisense compositions such as AEG 35156 GEM 640 AP 12009 and AP 11014 TGF beta2 specific antisense oligonucleotides AVI 4126 AVI 4557 AVI 4472 oblimersen Genasense JFS2 aprinocarsen WO 97 29780 GTI 2040 R2 ribonucleotide reductase mRNA antisense oligo WO 98 05769 GTI 2501 VVO 98 05769 liposome encapsulated c Raf antisense oligodeoxynucleotides LErafAON WO 98 43095 and Sirna 027 RNAi based therapeutic targeting VEGFR 1 mRNA .

The compound of formula I can also be combined in a pharmaceutical composition with bronchiodilatory or antihistamine drugs substances. Such bronchiodilatory drugs include anticholinergic or antimuscarinic agents in particular ipratropium bromide oxitropium bromide and tiotropium bromide and 2 adrenoreceptor agonists such as salbutamol terbutaline salmeterol carmoterol milveterol and especially formoterol or indacaterol. Co therapeutic antihistamine drug substances include cetirizine hydrochloride clemastine fumarate promethazine loratadine desloratadine diphenhydramine and fexofenadine hydrochloride.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I and one or more compounds that are useful for the treatment of a thrombolytic disease heart disease stroke etc. Such compounds include aspirin a streptokinase a tissue plasminogen activator a urokinase a anticoagulant antiplatelet drugs e.g PLAVIX clopidogrel bisulfate a statin e.g. LIPITOR or Atorvastatin calcium ZOCOR Simvastatin CRESTOR Rosuvastatin etc. a Beta blocker e.g. Atenolol NORVASC amlodipine besylate and an ACE inhibitor e.g. lisinopril .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I and one or more compounds that are useful for the treatment of antihypertension. Such compounds include ACE inhibitors lipid lowering agents such as statins LIPITOR Atorvastatin calcium calcium channel blockers such as NORVASC amlodipine besylate .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I and one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of fibrates beta blockers NEPI inhibitors Angiotensin 2 receptor antagonists and platelet aggregation inhibitors.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I and a compound suitable for the treatment of inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis. Such compound may be selected from the group consisting of TNF inhibitors such as anti TNF monoclonal antibodies such as REMICADE CDP 870 and D2E7 HUMIRA and TNF receptor immunoglobulin fusion molecules such as ENBREL IL 1 inhibitors receptor antagonists or soluble IL 1R e.g. KINERET or ICE inhibitors nonsterodial anti inflammatory agents NSAIDS piroxicam diclofenac naproxen flurbiprofen fenoprofen ketoprofen ibuprofen fenamates mefenamic acid indomethacin sulindac apazone pyrazolones phenylbutazone aspirin COX 2 inhibitors such as CELEBREX celecoxib PREXIGE lumiracoxib metalloprotease inhibitors preferably MMP 13 selective inhibitors p2x7 inhibitors 2 inhibitors NEUROTIN pregabalin low dose methotrexate leflunomide hydroxyxchloroquine d penicillamine auranofin or parenteral or oral gold.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I and a compound suitable for the treatment of osteoarthritis. Such compound may be selected from the group consisting of standard non steroidal anti inflammatory agents hereinafter NSAID s such as piroxicam diclofenac propionic acids such as naproxen flurbiprofen fenoprofen ketoprofen and ibuprofen fenamates such as mefenamic acid indomethacin sulindac apazone pyrazolones such as phenylbutazone salicylates such as aspirin COX 2 inhibitors such as celecoxib valdecoxib lumiracoxib and etoricoxib analgesics and intraarticular therapies such as corticosteroids and hyaluronic acids such as hyalgan and synvisc.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I and an antiviral agent and or an antisepsis compound. Such antiviral agent may be selected from the group consisting of Viracept AZT acyclovir and famciclovir. Such antisepsis compound may be selected from the group consisting of Valant.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I and one or more agents selected from the group consisting of CNS agents such as antidepressants sertraline anti Parkinsonian drugs such as deprenyl L dopa Requip Mirapex MAOB inhibitors such as selegine and rasagiline comP inhibitors such as Tasmar A 2 inhibitors dopamine reuptake inhibitors NMDA antagonists Nicotine agonists Dopamine agonists and inhibitors of neuronal nitric oxide synthase .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I and one or more anti Alzheimer s drugs. Such anti Alzheimer Drug may be selected from the group consisting of donepezil tacrine 2 inhibitors NEUROTIN pregabalin COX 2 inhibitors propentofylline or metrifonate.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I and anosteoporosis agents and or an immunosuppressant agent. Such osteoporosis agents may be selected from the group consisting of EVISTA raloxifene hydrochloride droloxifene lasofoxifene or fosomax. Such immunosuppressant agents may be selected from the group consisting of FK 506 and rapamycin.

In another aspect of the preferred embodiments kits that include one or more compound of formula I an a combination partner as disclosed herein are provided. Representative kits include a PI3K inhibitor compound e.g. a compound of formula I and a package insert or other labeling including directions for treating a cellular proliferative disease by administering a PI3K inhibitory amount of the compound s .

In general the compounds of formula I will be administered in a therapeutically effective amount by any of the accepted modes of administration for agents that serve similar utilities. The actual amount of the compound of formula I i.e. the active ingredient will depend upon numerous factors such as the severity of the disease to be treated the age and relative health of the subject the potency of the compound used the route and form of administration and other factors. The drug can be administered more than once a day preferably once or twice a day. All of these factors are within the skill of the attending clinician. Therapeutically effective amounts of compounds of formulas I may range from about 0.05 to about 50 mg per kilogram body weight of the recipient per day preferably about 0.1 25 mg kg day more preferably from about 0.5 to 10 mg kg day. Thus for administration to a 70 kg person the dosage range would most preferably be about 35 70 mg per day.

In general compounds of formula I will be administered as pharmaceutical compositions by any one of the following routes oral systemic e.g. transdermal intranasal or by suppository or parenteral e.g. intramuscular intravenous or subcutaneous administration. The preferred manner of administration is oral using a convenient daily dosage regimen that can be adjusted according to the degree of affliction. Compositions can take the form of tablets pills capsules semisolids powders sustained release formulations solutions suspensions elixirs aerosols or any other appropriate compositions. Another preferred manner for administering compounds of the formula I is inhalation. This is an effective method for delivering a therapeutic agent directly to the respiratory tract.

The choice of formulation depends on various factors such as the mode of drug administration and bioavailability of the drug substance. For delivery via inhalation the compound can be formulated as liquid solution suspensions aerosol propellants or dry powder and loaded into a suitable dispenser for administration. There are several types of pharmaceutical inhalation devices nebulizer inhalers metered dose inhalers MDI and dry powder inhalers DPI . Nebulizer devices produce a stream of high velocity air that causes the therapeutic agents which are formulated in a liquid form to spray as a mist that is carried into the patient s respiratory tract. MDI s typically are formulation packaged with a compressed gas. Upon actuation the device discharges a measured amount of therapeutic agent by compressed gas thus affording a reliable method of administering a set amount of agent. DPI dispenses therapeutic agents in the form of a free flowing powder that can be dispersed in the patient s inspiratory air stream during breathing by the device. In order to achieve a free flowing powder the therapeutic agent is formulated with an excipient such as lactose. A measured amount of the therapeutic agent is stored in a capsule form and is dispensed with each actuation.

The invention also relates to formulations wherein the particle size of a compound of formula I between 10 1000 nm preferably 10 400 nm. Such pharmaceutical formulations have been developed especially for drugs that show poor bioavailability based upon the principle that bioavailability can be increased by increasing the surface area i.e. decreasing particle size. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 107 288 describes a pharmaceutical formulation having particles in the size range from 10 to 1 000 nm in which the active material is supported on a crosslinked matrix of macromolecules. U.S. Pat. No. 5 145 684 describes the production of a pharmaceutical formulation in which the drug substance is pulverized to nanoparticles average particle size of 400 nm in the presence of a surface modifier and then dispersed in a liquid medium to give a pharmaceutical formulation that exhibits remarkably high bioavailability. Both documents are included by reference.

In a further aspect the invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. Acceptable excipients are non toxic aid administration and do not adversely affect the therapeutic benefit of the compound of formula I. Such excipient may be any solid liquid semi solid or in the case of an aerosol composition gaseous excipient that is generally available to one of skill in the art.

Solid pharmaceutical excipients include starch cellulose talc glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel magnesium stearate sodium stearate glycerol monostearate sodium chloride dried skim milk and the like.

Liquid and semisolid excipients may be selected from glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and various oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin e.g. peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil etc. Preferred liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions include water saline aqueous dextrose and glycols.

Compressed gases may be used to disperse a compound of the formula I in aerosol form. Inert gases suitable for this purpose are nitrogen carbon dioxide etc. Other suitable pharmaceutical excipients and their formulations are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences edited by E. W. Martin Mack Publishing Company 18th ed. 1990 .

The amount of the compound in a formulation can vary within the full range employed by those skilled in the art. Typically the formulation will contain on a weight percent wt basis from about 0.01 99.99 wt of a compound of formula I based on the total formulation with the balance being one or more suitable pharmaceutical excipients. Preferably the compound is present at a level of about 1 80 wt .

The invention further relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising i.e. containing or consisting of at least one compound of formula I and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of formula I in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form in association with at least one pharmaceutical acceptable excipient such as a carrier and or diluent may be manufactured in conventional manner by mixing the components.

Combined pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of formula I in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form and further comprising a combination partner either in one dosage unit form or as a kit of parts in association with at least one pharmaceutical acceptable carrier and or diluent may be manufactured in conventional manner by mixing with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or diluent with said active ingredients.

The following examples of compounds of formula I illustrate the invention without limiting the scope thereof. Methods for preparing such compounds are described hereinafter.

EtN 1.54 mL 11.1 mmol 3 eq is added to a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 tert butyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide Step 1.1 1.26 g 3.7 mmol and L prolinamide 0.548 g 4.8 mmol 1.3 eq in DMF 25 mL under an argon atmosphere. The reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at rt quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NaHCO and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 1 0 94 6 followed by trituration in EtO to afford 1.22 g of the title compound as an off white solid ESI MS 388.1 M H t 2.35 min System 1 TLC R 0.36 DCM MeOH 9 1 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 ppm 1.32 s 9H 1.75 1.95 m 3H 1.97 2.13 m 1H 2.39 s 3H 3.38 3.50 m 1H 3.52 3.65 m 1H 4.10 4.40 m 1H 6.94 br. s. 1H 7.22 d 1H 7.30 7.48 m 2H 8.49 d 1H 10.87 br. s. 1H 

A mixture of 5 2 tert butyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine Step 1.2 1 g 4.05 mmol and 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 0.984 g 6.07 mmol 1.5 eq in DCM 50 mL is stirred for 4 h at reflux and allowed to cool. The resulting precipitate is collected by filtration to provide 1.26 g of the title compound as white solid ESI MS 340.2 M H t 2.85 min System 1 .

A mixture of N 5 2 tert butyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl acetamide Step 1.3 2 g 7 mmol a 6N aqueous solution of HCl 10 mL and EtOH 50 mL is stirred for 2 h at 85 C. allowed to cool quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with DCM MeOH 9 1 v v . The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 1 0 96 4 to afford 1.21 g of the title compound as a yellow solid ESI MS 248.1 M H TLC R 0.36 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

A mixture of 2 acetamido 4 methylthiazole 1.2 g 7.7 mmol 1.1 eq cesium carbonate 4.55 g 14 mmol 2 eq tri tert butylphosphinium tetrafluoroborate 0.406 g 1.4 mmol 0.2 eq palladium II acetate 0.15 g 0.7 mmol 0.1 eq and 4 bromo 2 tert butyl pyridine Step 1.4 1.5 g 7 mmol in DMF 50 mL is stirred for 1.5 h at 90 C. under an argon atmosphere allowed to cool quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NaHCOand filtered through a pad of celite. The filtrate is extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 1 0 97 3 to afford 2.02 g of the title compound as a yellow solid ESI MS 290.1 M H TLC R 0.35 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

A mixture of 2 tert butyl 1H pyridin 4 one Step 1.5 4.25 g 28 mmol and POBr 8.88 g 31 mmol 1.1 eq is heated to 120 C. stirred for 15 min allowed to cool quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with DCM MeOH 9 1 v v . The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 95 5 to afford 5.18 g of the title compound as a yellow oil ESI MS 214.0 216.0 M H t 2.49 min System 1 TLC R 0.35 Hex EtOAc 1 1 .

A mixture of 2 tert butyl pyran 4 one Step 1.6 5.74 g 37.7 mmol and a 30 aqueous solution of ammonium hydroxide 100 mL is stirred for 1 h at reflux allowed to cool and concentrated. The residue is triturated with MeOH 200 mL and filtered. The filtrate is concentrated and the residue purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH NH 94 5 1 92 7 1 to afford 4.46 g of the title compound as a yellow solid ESI MS 152.0 M H t 1.45 min System 1 TLC R 0.11 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

A mixture of 5 hydroxy 1 methoxy 6 6 dimethyl hepta 1 4 dien 3 one Step 1.7 6.8 g 36.9 mmol and TFA 5.65 mL 74 mmol 2 eq in benzene 250 mL is stirred for 14 h at rt and concentrated. Purification of the residue by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 0 75 25 provides 5.74 g of the title compound as a yellow oil ESI MS 153.1 M H t 3.21 min System 1 TLC R 0.22 Hex EtOAc 1 1 .

LiHMDS 1M in THF 100 mL 2 eq is added dropwise to a cold 78 C. solution of 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one 10 mL 100 mmol 2 eq in THF 400 mL . After a 30 min stirring at 78 C. a solution of pivaloyl chloride 6.12 mL 50 mmol in THF 100 mL is added. The resulting mixture is allowed to warm to it over 2 h and quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NHCl. THF is removed under vacuum. The concentrated mixture is extracted with EtO. The organic phase is washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 0 85 15 to afford 6.83 g of the title compound as a yellow oil ESI MS 185.1 M H TLC R 0.87 Hex EtOAc 1 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 4 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 85 C. In Step 1.3 4 chloro 2 1 methylcyclopropyl pyridine Step 2.1 is used and the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 150 C. Title compound ESI MS 372.1 M H TLC R 0.35 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared according to a modification of a procedure described in the literature Comins D. L. Mantlo N. B. Journal of Organic Chemistry 1985 50 4410 4411 .

Cyclopropylmagnesium bromide 0.5M in THF 100 mL 50 mmol 2.2 eq is added in one portion to a cold 78 C. suspension of 4 chloropyridine hydrochloride 3.4 g 22 mmol in THF 68 mL . After a 10 min stirring at 78 C. phenyl chloroformate 2.76 mL 22 mmol is added dropwise. The reaction mixture is stirred at 78 C. for 15 min allowed to warm to rt quenched by addition of a 20 aqueous solution of NHCl and extracted with EtO 2 100 mL . The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO 50 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. To the residue dissolved in toluene 100 mL a solution of o chloranil 6 g 24.2 mmol 1.1 eq in glacial AcOH 50 mL is added. The reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at rt cooled to 0 C. basified by addition of a 10 aqueous solution of NaOH and filtered through a pad of celite. The organic layer from the filtrate is washed with HO 20 mL and extracted with a 10 aqueous solution of HCl 3 25 mL . The combined acidic layers are basified by addition of 20 aqueous solution of NaOH and extracted with DCM 3 25 mL . The organic phase is washed with HO 50 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 1 0 99 1 to afford 0.951 g of the title compound as a colorless oil ESI MS 154.1 M H t 1.41 min System 1 TLC R 0.85 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but using 4 chloro 2 2 fluoro phenyl pyridine Step 3.1 and stirring the corresponding mixture for 2 h at 150 C. in Step 1.3 ESI MS 426.1 M H t 2.60 min System 1 TLC R 0.40 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

A mixture of 2 fluorophenylboronic acid 141 mg 1 mmol 1.2 eq in EtOH 1 mL is added to a mixture of 4 chloro 2 iodo pyridine Choppin S. Gros P. Fort Y. European Journal of Organic Chemistry 2001 3 603 606 200 mg 0.84 mmol PdCl dppf 18 mg 0.025 mmol 0.03 equiv and NaCO 2 M solution in HO 1.68 mL 3.36 mmol 4 equiv in toluene 2 mL at 105 C. under an argon atmosphere. The reaction mixture is stirred at 105 C. for 1 h allowed to cool to rt quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 0 97 3 to afford 127 mg of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 208.1 M H t 4.66 min System 1 TLC R 0.27 Hex EtOAc 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 4 h at rt diluted with EtOAc and HO and extracted with EtOAc. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by trituration in DCM. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 120 C. cooled diluted with EtOAc and HO filtered through a pad of celite and extracted with EtOAc. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by trituration in EtO. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min cyclobutylcarbonyl chloride in THF is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach it over 18 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 85 C. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 120 C. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 70 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 1 methyl cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride Step 5.1 is used.

Title compound ESI MS 386.1 M H TLC R 0.40 DCM MeOH 9 1 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 ppm 0.71 0.87 m 2H 1.11 1.26 m 2H 1.47 s 3H 1.74 1.96 m 3H 2.00 2.15 m 1H 2.39 s 3H 3.35 3.52 m 1H 3.52 3.73 m 1H 4.10 4.40 m 1H 6.93 br. s. 1H 7.15 dd 1H 7.27 s 1H 7.35 s 1H 8.40 d 1H 10.99 br. s. 1H 

A mixture of 1 methyl cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 10 g 100 mmol and oxalyl chloride 10.49 ml 120 mmol 1.2 eq in CHCl 80 ml is stirred for 4 h at 70 C. The reaction mixture is concentrated to afford 11.8 g of the title compound as a yellow oil which is used without further purification.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is quenched by dilution with EtOAc and HO and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 100 C. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 100 C. diluted with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 4 . In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one 50 mmol in THF 100 mL is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS 1M in THF 100 mL in THF 200 mL . After 30 min 1 methyl cyclobutane chloride Step 6.1 is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach rt over 18 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 5.1 but using 1 methyl cyclobutanecarboxylic acid Cowling S. J. Goodby J. W. Chemical Communications 2006 39 4107 4109 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 16 h at rt quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 100 C. In Step 1.3 N thiazol 2 yl acetamide is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 120 C. diluted with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 1 followed by trituration in EtO.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 16 h at rt quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 100 C. In Step 1.3 4 chloro 2 isopropyl pyridine Step 8.1 is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 150 C. diluted with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 25 75 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 2.1 but using isopropylmagnesium chloride 2M in THF ESI MS 156.0 M H TLC R 0.32 DCM .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 16 h at rt diluted with DCM HO and extracted with DCM. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 100 C. and the crude product is not purified. In Step 1.3 N thiazol 2 yl acetamide is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 120 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 2 3 . In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one 50 mmol in THF 100 mL is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS 1M in THF 100 mL in THF 200 mL . After 30 min cyclobutylcarbonyl chloride is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach it over 18 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 85 C. In Step 1.3 N thiazol 2 yl acetamide is used and the reaction mixture is stirred for 4 h at 120 C. In Step 1.5 trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 1 methyl cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride Step 5.1 is used.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at reflux. In Step 1.3 N thiazol 2 yl acetamide is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 120 C. In Step 1.4 1 2 dichloroethane 2.55 mL per mmol of pyridin 4 one is used as the solvent. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 83 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 1 trifluoromethyl cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride Step 11.1 is used.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 5.1 but using 1 trifluoromethyl cyclopropanecarboxylic acid.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 5 h at rt. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 N thiazol 2 yl acetamide is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2.5 h at 120 C. In Step 1.4 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 83 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the crude product is not purified. In Step 1.7 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionyl chloride Step 12.1 is used.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 5.1 but using 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt quenched by dilution with DCM HO and extracted with DCM. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 N thiazol 2 yl acetamide is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 5 h at 120 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.4 1 2 dichloroethane 2.26 mL per mmol of pyridin 4 one is used as the solvent. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at rt and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 1 trifluoromethyl cyclobutanecarbonyl chloride Step 13.1 in THF is added. The reaction mixture is allowed to reach rt over 18 h and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 5.1 but using 1 trifluoromethyl cyclobutanecarboxylic acid and stirring the reaction mixture for 2 h at reflux.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 120 C. In Step 1.4 1 2 dichloroethane 2.55 mL per mmol of pyridin 4 one is used as the solvent. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 83 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 1 trifluoromethyl cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride Step 11.1 is used.

Title compound ESI MS 440.0 M H t 2.65 min System 1 TLC R 0.36 DCM MeOH 9 1 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 ppm 1.41 s 4H 1.70 1.90 m 3H 2.00 2.10 m 1H 2.40 s 3H 3.36 3.52 m 1H 3.52 3.65 m 1H 4.10 4.40 m 1H 6.95 br. s. 1H 7.37 d 2H 7.47 s 1H 8.52 d 1H 10.94 br. s. 1H 

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2.5 h at 120 C. In Step 1.4 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 83 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the crude product is not purified. In Step 1.7 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionyl chloride Step 12.1 is used.

Title compound ESI MS 442.0 M H t 3.02 min System 1 TLC R 0.35 DCM MeOH 9 1 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 ppm 1.60 s 6H 1.70 1.95 m 3H 1.99 2.16 m 1H 2.40 s 3H 3.38 3.51 m 1H 3.51 3.69 m 1H 4.10 4.40 m 1H 6.95 br. s. 1H 7.39 d 2H 7.53 s 1H 8.58 d 1H 10.93 br. s. 1H 

In an alternative procedure the title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications N N Dimethylacetamide is used instead of DMF and the mixture is stirred at 65 C. for 2 h. In Step 1.1 phenyl chloroformate added slowly is used instead of 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole and the reaction is carried out in THF in the presence of N N diethyl isopropylamine at room temperature 1.5 h . In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is heated under stirring for 5 h under reflux and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 100 C. In Step 1.4 the reaction is run in toluene using 1.1 equivalents of POBrand 1.1 equivalents of tripropylamine and the mixture is stirred for 2 h at 80 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 toluene is used instead of benzene and the crude product is not purified. In Step 1.7 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionyl chloride Step 12.1 is used.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 72 h at rt quenched by dilution with DCM HO and extracted with DCM. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 6 h at 120 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO filtered through a pad of celite and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.4 1 2 dichloroethane 2.26 mL per mmol of pyridin 4 one is used as the solvent. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at rt and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 1 trifluoromethyl cyclobutanecarbonyl chloride Step 13.1 in THF is added. The reaction mixture is allowed to reach it over 18 h and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 24 h at rt quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 N thiazol 2 yl acetamide is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 100 C. diluted with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 25 75 . In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 1 methyl cyclobutane chloride Step 6.1 in THF is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach it over 18 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 16 h at rt quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.1 1 4 2 amino 4 methyl thiazol 5 yl pyridin 2 yl cyclopropanecarbonitrile Step 18.1 is used and the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at reflux.

Title compound ESI MS 397.0 M H t 2.90 min System 1 TLC R 0.08 DCM MeOH NH 94 5 1 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 ppm 1.69 1.93 m 7H 2.00 2.20 m 1H 2.42 s 3H 3.38 3.50 m 1H 3.50 3.65 m 1H 4.10 4.40 m 1H 6.94 br. s. 1H 7.34 dd 1H 7.37 br. s. 1H 7.47 s 1H 8.47 d 1H 

A mixture of 5 2 1 cyano cyclopropyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester Step 18.2 295 mg DCM 4 mL and TFA 1 mL is stirred for 2 h at rt and then concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH NH 94 5 1 to afford 182 mg of the title compound ESI MS 257.1 M H t 2.54 min System 1 TLC R 0.30 DCM MeOH NH 94 5 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.3 but using 1 4 bromo pyridin 2 yl cyclopropanecarbonitrile Step 18.3 and 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester Step 18.4 . The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 100 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. The crude product is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 1 to afford 122 mg of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 357.1 M H t 4.86 min System 1 TLC R 0.29 Hex EtOAc 1 1 .

LiHMDS 1M in toluene 17.6 mL 17.6 mmol 3.1 eq is added dropwise to a cold 5 C. mixture of 4 bromo 2 fluoro pyridine Marsais F. et al Journal of Organic Chemistry 1992 57 565 573 1 g 5.7 mmol cyclopropanecarbonitrile 1.25 mL 17 mmol 3 eq 4 molecular sieves and toluene 20 mL . The reaction mixture is allowed to warm to rt stirred for 16 h poured into HO and filtered. The filtrate is diluted with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase is washed with HO and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 9 1 to afford 620 mg of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 223.1 225.1 M H t 4.22 min System 1 TLC R 0.25 Hex EtOAc 9 1 .

A solution of di tert butyl dicarbonate 21 g 96.5 mmol 1.1 eq in t BuOH 50 mL is added to a solution of 4 methyl 2 aminothiazole 10 g 87.7 mmol and DMAP 1.1 g 8.8 mmol 0.1 eq in t BuOH 50 mL . The reaction mixture is stirred for 72 h at rt and concentrated. The residue is diluted with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase is washed with HO and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 98 2 to afford 15.2 g of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 215.1 M H t 3.43 min System 1 TLC R 0.30 DCM MeOH 98 2 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 6 h at rt. In Step 1.1 1 4 2 amino 4 methyl thiazol 5 yl pyridin 2 yl cyclobutanecarbonitrile Step 19.1 is used and the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at reflux.

A mixture of 5 2 1 cyano cyclobutyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester Step 19.2 300 mg DCM 5 mL and TFA 1 mL is stirred for 4 h at rt quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NaHCO 50 mL and extracted with DCM 3 75 mL . The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO 2 50 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 1 0 96 4 to afford 181 mg of the title compound as a yellow solid ESI MS 271.1 M H t 2.48 min System 1 TLC R 0.45 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.3 but using 1 4 bromo pyridin 2 yl cyclobutanecarbonitrile Step 19.3 and 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester Step 18.4 . The reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 100 C. Title compound ESI MS 371.1 M H t 4.86 min System 1 TLC R 0.66 Hex EtOAc 1 1 .

LiHMDS 1M in toluene 17.7 mL 17.7 mmol 3.1 eq is added dropwise to a cold 5 C. solution of 4 bromo 2 fluoro pyridine Marsais F. et al Journal of Organic Chemistry 1992 57 565 573 1 g 5.7 mmol and cyclobutanecarbonitrile 1.39 g 17.1 mmol 3 eq in toluene 20 mL . The reaction mixture is allowed to warm to rt stirred for 5 h quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NaHCO 50 mL and filtered through a pad of celite. The filtrate is extracted with EtOAc 3 75 mL . The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO 2 50 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 0 95 5 to afford 933 mg of the title compound as a yellow oil ESI MS 237.0 239.0 M H t 4.27 min System 1 TLC R 0.30 Hex EtOAc 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at rt. In Step 1.1 1 4 2 amino 4 methyl thiazol 5 yl pyridin 2 yl cyclobutanecarboxylic acid amide Step 20.1 is used and the reaction mixture is stirred for 12 h at reflux.

A mixture of 5 2 1 cyano cyclobutyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester Step 19.2 640 mg 1.73 mmol and concentrated sulfuric acid is stirred for 40 min at 0 C. allowed to warm to rt stirred for 1 h quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NaHCO 50 mL and extracted with DCM 3 75 mL . The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO 2 50 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH NH 99 0 1 93 6 1 to afford 35 mg of the title compound as a yellow solid ESI MS 289.1 M H TLC R 0.32 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 5 2 2 dimethylamino 1 1 dimethyl ethyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine Step 21.1 is used and the reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at reflux.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 19.1 but using 5 2 2 dimethylamino 1 1 dimethyl ethyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester Step 21.2 and stirring the reaction mixture for 2 h at rt. Title compound ESI MS 291.1 M H t 2.48 min System 1 TLC R 0.11 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

Formaldehyde 36 in HO 0.144 mL 1.87 mmol 2 eq is added to a mixture of 5 2 2 amino 1 1 dimethyl ethyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester Step 21.3 0.34 g 0.94 mmol and sodium acetoxyborohydride 0.6 g 2.82 mmol 3 eq in 1 2 dichloroetane 10 mL . The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at rt and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH NH 99 0 1 97 2 1 to afford 0.222 g of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 391.2 M H t 4.27 min System 1 TLC R 0.15 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

LiAlH 1M in THF 3.06 mL 3.06 mmol 1.5 eq is added to a solution of 5 2 cyanodimethyl methyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester Step 21.4 0.73 g 2.04 mmol in THF 10 mL under an argon atmosphere. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at rt quenched by addition of HO 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 75 mL . The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO 2 50 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH NH 99 0 1 94 5 1 to afford 318 mg of the title compound as a brown solid ESI MS 363.1 M H TLC R 0.11 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.3 but using 2 4 iodo pyridin 2 yl 2 methyl propionitrile Step 21.5 and 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester Step 18.4 . The reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 100 C. Title compound ESI MS 359.1 M H TLC R 0.47 Hex EtOAc 1 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 19.3 but using 2 fluoro 4 iodopyridine. Title compound ESI MS 273.0 M H t 4.22 min System 1 TLC R 0.36 Hex EtOAc 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt quenched by dilution with DCM HO and extracted with DCM. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 diethyl 4 iodo pyridin 2 yl amine Step 22.1 is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 16 h at 120 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO filtered through a pad of celite and extracted with EtOAc.

A mixture of 2 fluoro 4 iodopyridine 2 g 8.97 mmol diethyl amine 2.77 ml 26.9 mmol 3 eq and KCO 2.48 g 17.94 mmol 2 eq in DMF 20 mL is stirred for 18 h at 100 C. allowed to cool to rt diluted with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase is washed with HO and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtO 98 2 to afford 2.3 g of the title compound as a yellow oil ESI MS 277.1 M H TLC R 0.52 Hex EtO 98 2 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt quenched by dilution with DCM HO and extracted with DCM. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 diethyl 4 iodo pyridin 2 yl amine Step 22.1 and N thiazol 2 yl acetamide are used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 5 h at 120 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO filtered through a pad of celite and extracted with EtOAc.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 5 h at rt. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 6 bromo 1 tert butyl 1H benzoimidazole Step 24.1 and N thiazol 2 yl acetamide are used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 7 h at 120 C.

A mixture of 4 bromo N 2 tert butyl benzene 1 2 diamine Step 24.2 2.14 g 8.80 mmol and triethylortoformate 14.7 mL 88 mmol is stirred for 1 h at 148 C. allowed to cool and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 1 0 99 1 to afford 1.74 g of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 253.0 255.0 M H t 2.88 min System 1 TLC R 0.54 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

A suspension of 5 bromo 2 nitro phenyl tert butyl amine Step 24.3 6 g 21.97 mmol and Raney nickel 2 g in MeOH THF 1 1 v v 600 mL is stirred for 9 h at rt under a hydrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture is filtered through a pad of celite and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 97 3 3 1 to afford 4.4 g of the title compound as a black oil ESI MS 243.0 245.0 M H t 2.75 min System 1 TLC R 0.89 Hex EtOAc 1 1 .

A mixture of 4 bromo 2 fluoro nitrobenzene 4 g 18.2 mmol and tert butylamine 4.78 mL 45.5 mmol 2.5 eq in EtOH 80 mL is stirred for 15 h at 85 C. allowed to cool and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 0 99 1 to afford 4.8 g of the title compound as an orange solid ESI MS 273.0 275.0 M H t 5.68 min System 1 TLC R 0.49 Hex EtOAc 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 6 bromo 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 1H benzoimidazole Step 25.1 and N thiazol 2 yl acetamide are used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 5 h at 120 C.

A mixture of 6 bromo 1 tert butyl 2 ethoxymethyl 2 methyl 2 3 dihydro 1H benzoimidazole Step 25.2 2.04 g 6.51 mmol and TFA 10 ml is stirred at it overnight quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NaHCO 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 150 mL . The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO 2 50 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 1 0 98 2 to afford 1.05 g of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 267.0 269.0 M H t 2.99 min System 1 TLC R 0.58 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

A mixture of 4 bromo N 2 tert butyl benzene 1 2 diamine Step 24.2 2.14 g 8.80 mmol and triethylortoacetate 16.2 mL 88 mmol 10 eq is stirred for 1 h at 142 C. allowed to cool and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 0 95 5 to afford 2.04 g of the title compound as a purple oil ESI MS 313.0 315.0 M H TLC R 0.67 Hex EtOAc 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 15 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 6 bromo 1 ethyl 1H benzoimidazole Step 26.1 and N thiazol 2 yl acetamide are used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 14 h at 120 C.

A mixture of 4 bromo N 2 ethyl benzene 1 2 diamine Step 26.2 2 g 9.3 mmol and triethylortoformate 15.5 mL 93 mmol 10 eq is stirred for 1 h at 148 C. allowed to cool and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 1 0 98 2 to afford 2.05 g of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 225.1 227.1 M H t 2.31 min System 1 TLC R 0.58 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

A suspension of 5 bromo 2 nitro phenyl ethyl amine Step 26.3 6 g 24.48 mmol and Raney nickel 2 g in MeOH THF 1 1 v v 600 mL is stirred for 9 h at rt under a hydrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture is filtered through a pad of celite and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 95 5 85 15 to afford 4.51 g of the title compound as a black oil ESI MS 213.1 215.1 M H t 2.53 min System 1 TLC R 0.57 Hex EtOAc 1 1 .

A mixture of 4 bromo 2 fluoro nitrobenzene 6 g 27.3 mmol methylamine 2M in MeOH 34.1 mL 68.2 mmol 2.5 eq and EtOH 80 mL is stirred for 15 h at 85 C. allowed to cool and concentrated. The residue purified by trituration to afford 6 g of the title compound as an yellow solid t 5.13 min System 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 24 h at rt quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 100 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.4 1 2 dichloroethane 4.3 mL per mmol of pyridin 4 one is used as the solvent. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux poured into a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with DCM. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 23 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the reaction mixture is stirred for 21 h at rt. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 2 4 methoxy phenyl 2 methyl propionyl chloride Step 27.1 in THF is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach it over 16 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 5.1 but using 2 4 methoxy phenyl 2 methyl propionic acid and stirring the reaction mixture for 3 h at reflux.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 16 h at rt quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 N thiazol 2 yl acetamide is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 5 h at 100 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.4 1 2 dichloroethane 4.3 mL per mmol of pyridin 4 one is used as the solvent. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux poured into a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with DCM. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 23 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the reaction mixture is stirred for 21 h at rt. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 2 4 methoxy phenyl 2 methyl propionyl chloride Step 27.1 in THF is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach rt over 16 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 21 h at rt quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 6 h at 100 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.4 1 2 dichloroethane 4.3 mL per mmol of pyridin 4 one is used as the solvent. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux poured into a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with DCM. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 1 4 methoxy phenyl cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride Step 29.1 in THF is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach rt over 16 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 5.1 but using 1 4 methoxy phenyl cyclopropylcarboxylic acid and stirring the reaction mixture for 3 h at reflux.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 16 h at rt quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 N thiazol 2 yl acetamide is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 28 h at 100 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. In Step 1.4 1 2 dichloroethane 4.3 mL per mmol of pyridin 4 one is used as the solvent. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux poured into a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with DCM. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 1 4 methoxy phenyl cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride Step 29.1 in THF is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach rt over 16 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 7 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 3 4 1 4 bromo pyridin 2 yl 1 methyl ethyl phenoxy propyl dimethyl amine Step 31.1 is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 120 C. quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc.

Sodium hydroxide pellets are finely grinded 0.488 g 12.2 mmol 5 eq is added to a solution of 4 1 4 bromo pyridin 2 yl 1 methyl ethyl phenol Step 31.2 0.714 g 2.44 mmol in DMF 5 mL . The mixture is stirred for 20 min at rt. 3 Dimethylamino 1 propylchloride hydrochloride 0.611 g 3.87 mmol 1.6 eq is added. The reaction mixture is heated to 90 C. stirred for 10 h allowed to cool diluted with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase is washed with HO and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH NH 94 5 1 to afford 0.398 g of the title compound as an impure brown oil which is used without further purification ESI MS 377.1 379.0 M H TLC R 0.22 DCM MeOH NH 94 5 1 .

BBr 1M in DCM 23 mmol 8 eq is added dropwise to a cold 0 C. solution of 4 bromo 2 1 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl ethyl pyridine Step 31.3 0.878 g 2.87 mmol in DCM 42 mL under an argon atmosphere. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 0 C. allowed to warm to rt stirred for 18 h cooled to 0 C. and quenched by addition of anhydrous MeOH. The mixture is concentrated diluted with a 6M aqueous solution of HCl stirred for 1 h neutralized to pH 7 and extracted with DCM. The organic phase is dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is used without purification.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Steps 1.4 to 1.7 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.4 1 2 dichloroethane 4.3 mL per mmol of pyridin 4 one is used as the solvent. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux poured into a saturated aqueous solution of NaHCOand extracted with DCM. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 23 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the reaction mixture is stirred for 21 h at rt. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 2 4 methoxy phenyl 2 methyl propionyl chloride Step 27.1 in THF is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach it over 16 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt quenched by dilution with DCM HO and extracted with DCM. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 the palladium catalyst is added to the heated mixture of the remaining reagents and the resulting mixture is stirred for 1 h at 120 C. diluted with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 4 . In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 1 d methyl cyclobutane chloride Step 32.1 in THF is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach it over 16 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 5.1 but using 1 d methyl cyclobutanecarboxylic acid which is prepared according to a described procedure Cowling S. J. Goodby J. W. Chemical Communications 2006 39 4107 4109 but using d methyl iodide.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt quenched by dilution with DCM HO and extracted with DCM. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. In Step 1.3 N thiazol 2 yl acetamide is used. The palladium catalyst is added to the heated mixture of the remaining reagents. The resulting mixture is stirred for 7 h at 120 C. diluted with EtOAc HO filtered through a pad of celite and extracted with EtOAc. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 4 . In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 1 d methyl cyclobutane chloride Step 32.1 in THF is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach it over 16 h.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 8 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 2 acetamido 4 d methyl thiazole Step 34.1 is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 120 C. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 70 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 1 methyl cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride Step 5.1 is used.

A mixture of 1 bromo propan 2 one d Challacombe K. et al Journal of the Chemical Society Perkin Trans. I 1988 2213 2218 1.25 g 8.8 mmol and 1 acetyl 2 thiourea 1 g 8.8 mmol in EtOH 20 mL is stirred for 2 h at 85 C. allowed to cool and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 85 15 1 1 to provide 1.08 g of the title compound as an orange solid ESI MS 160.0 M H TLC R 0.25 Hex EtOAc 1 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 8 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 2 acetamido 4 d methyl thiazole Step 34.1 is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 120 C. In Step 1.4 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 83 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the crude product is not purified. In Step 1.7 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionyl chloride Step 12.1 is used.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt quenched by dilution with DCM HO and extracted with DCM. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 N 4 dimethylaminomethyl 5 2 1 d methylcyclobutyl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl acetamide Step 36.1 is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched.

A mixture of N 4 bromomethyl 5 2 1 d methyl cyclobutyl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl acetamide Step 36.2 150 mg 0.391 mmol dimethylamine hydrochloride 38.3 mg 0.470 mmol 1.2 eq and cesium carbonate 293 mg 0.900 mmol 2.3 eq in DMF 2 mL is stirred for 2 h at rt diluted with EtOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase is washed with HO and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue purified by trituration in EtO to afford 89 mg of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 348.2 M H .

NBS 554 mg 3.06 mmol 1.1 eq is added to a solution of N 4 methyl 5 2 1 d methylcyclobutyl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl acetamide Step 36.3 846 mg 2.78 mmol in CCl 20 mL and CHCl 16 mL . The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at rt washed with HO and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 4 to afford 572 mg of the title compound as a pale yellow solid ESI MS 383.0 385.0 M H t 3.12 min System 1 TLC R 0.45 Hex EtOAc 1 4 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Steps 1.3 to 1.7 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 120 C. and quenched by dilution with EtOAc HO. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 80 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.7 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one in THF is added to a cold 78 C. solution of LiHMDS in THF. After 30 min 1 d methyl cyclobutane chloride Step 32.1 in THF is added and the reaction mixture is allowed to reach it over 16 h.

A mixture of 4 chloro 5 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine Step 37.1 100 mg 0.311 mmol and phosgene 0.164 mL 0.311 mmol in pyridine 2 mL is stirred for 1 h at 105 C. L Prolinamide 106 mg 0.932 mmol 3 eq is added. The resulting mixture is stirred for 30 min at 105 C. allowed to cool quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NaHCO 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 100 mL . The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO 100 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 99 1 94 6 to afford 46 mg of the title compound as a yellow solid ESI MS 461.9 M H t 3.60 min System 1 TLC R 0.28 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Steps 1.2 to 1.7 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 N 4 chloro thiazol 2 yl acetamide Step 37.2 is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 120 C. In Step 1.4 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 83 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the crude product is not purified. In Step 1.7 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionyl chloride Step 12.1 is used.

A mixture of N 4 oxo 4 5 dihydro thiazol 2 yl acetamide Step 37.3 14.8 g 94 mmol and POCl 175 mL 20 eq is heated to 105 C. stirred for 15 min allowed to cool and concentrated. The residue is poured onto ice HO and extracted with EtOAc 2 100 mL . The organic phase is washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO 2 100 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH 99 1 to afford 13.9 g of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 177.0 M H t 2.74 min System 1 TLC R 0.66 DCM MeOH 9 1 .

A mixture of pseudothiohydanthoin 16 g 138 mmol and acetic anhydride 16.9 mL 179 mmol 1.3 eq in pyridine 150 mL is heated to 115 C. stirred for 1 h and allowed to cool. The resulting precipitate is collected by filtration to provide 12.64 g of the title compound as a brown solid ESI MS 159.0 M H .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 18 h at rt quenched by dilution with DCM HO and extracted with DCM. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at reflux concentrated and the resulting crude material is used without purification. In Step 1.2 N 4 fluoromethyl 5 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl acetamide Step 38.1 is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 100 C. and extracted with DCM after being quenched. The crude material is not purified.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Steps 1.3 to 1.7 but with the following modifications. In Step 1.3 N 4 fluoromethyl thiazol 2 yl acetamide Step 38.2 is used. The reaction mixture is stirred for 7 h at 90 C. for 5 h at 100 C. and quenched by dilution with EtOAc and HO. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the crude product is not purified. In Step 1.7 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionyl chloride Step 12.1 is used.

A mixture of 1 chloro 3 fluoro propan 2 one Step 38.3 1.14 g 10.3 mmol and N acetyl 2 thiourea 1.22 g 10.3 mmol in EtOH 10 mL is stirred for 1.5 h at reflux allowed to cool and concentrated. The residue is dissolved in DCM HO and extracted with DCM. The organic phase is dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 1 to afford 0.143 g of the title compound ESI MS 173.1 M H t 1.98 min System 1 TLC R 0.21 Hex EtOAc 1 1 .

1 Fluoro 3 chloroisopropanol 2.7 mL 31.2 mmol is added slowly to a flask containing 30 mL of the Jones reagent prepared by adding 230 mL of concentrated sulfuric acid to 267 g of chromium trioxide in 700 mL of HO and diluting with HO to 1 L cooled to 5 C. The reaction mixture is allowed to warm to rt stirred for 18 h poured into a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with EtO. The organic phase is washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM to afford 1.14 g of the title compound as an impure yellow oil.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.3 but with the following modifications. S Pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 2 amide 1 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide Step 39.2 and N 5 bromo 2 chloro pyridin 3 yl benzenesulfonamide step 39.1 are used. The palladium catalyst is added to the heated mixture of the remaining reagents and the resulting mixture is stirred for 3 h at 135 C. diluted with EtOAc and HO filtered through a pad of celite and extracted with EtOAc. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography and by reverse phase HPLC. Title compound ESI MS 519.0 521.1 M H t 3.33 min System 1 TLC R 0.09 DCM MeOH NH 84 15 1 .

A solution of benzenesulfonyl chloride 1.23 mL 9.62 mmol 2 eq in DCM 50 mL is added dropwise over 15 min to a solution of 3 amino 5 bromo 2 chloropyridine Jouve K. Bergman J. Journal of Heterocyclic Chemistry 2003 40 2 261 268 1 g 4.81 mmol and pyridine 1.94 ml 24 mmol 5 eq in DCM 20 mL under an argon atmosphere. The resulting mixture is stirred for 20 h at rt concentrated diluted with HO and extracted with DCM. The organic phase is washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM to afford 163 mg of the title compound as a white solid ESI MS 346.9 M H t 4.33 min System 1 TLC R 0.23 DCM .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but using imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide Step 39.3 . The reaction mixture is stirred mixture for 18 h at rt and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH NH 94 5 1 followed by trituration in EtO. Title compound ESI MS 253.2 M H TLC R 0.18 DCM MeOH NH84 15 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.1 but using 2 acetamido 4 methylthiazole and stirring the reaction mixture for 5.5 h at reflux.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.3 but with the following modifications. S Pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 2 amide 1 thiazol 2 ylamide Step 40.1 and N 5 bromo 2 chloro pyridin 3 yl benzenesulfonamide step 39.1 are used. The palladium catalyst is added to the heated mixture of the remaining reagents and the resulting mixture is stirred for 6 h at 120 C. concentrated diluted with DCM MeOH filtered through a pad of celite and the filtrate is concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography and by reverse phase HPLC. Title compound ESI MS 506.9 M H t 3.21 min System 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but using imidazole 1 carboxylic acid thiazol 2 ylamide Step 40.2 . The reaction mixture is stirred mixture for 18 h at rt and concentrated. The residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography DCM MeOH NH 94 5 1 followed by trituration in EtOAc. Title compound ESI MS 239.2 M H TLC R 0.11 DCM MeOH NH 84 15 1 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.1 but using N thiazol 2 yl acetamide and stirring the reaction mixture for 5 h at reflux.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.3 but with the following modifications. S Pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 2 amide 1 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide Step 39.2 and 5 bromo 3 trifluoromethyl pyridin 2 ylamine WO2007095588 are used. The palladium catalyst is added to the heated mixture of the remaining reagents and the resulting mixture is stirred for 3 h at 120 C. diluted with DCM HO and extracted with DCM. After drying and concentration of the organic phase the residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography and by reverse phase HPLC. Title compound ESI MS 413.1 M H TLC R 0.27 DCM MeOH NH 89 10 1 .

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide 4.0 g is added to a stirred solution of L proline amide 1.48 g and triethylamine 4.1 ml in DMF 46 ml at room temperature. The reaction mixture is stood at room temperature for 22 hours evaporated and the title compound is obtained as a white solid after crystallization with methanol 60 ml and water 20 ml . HPLC MS retention time 1.24 minutes M H 387.1 and M H 385.2.

Carbonyl diimidazole 4.56 g is added to a solution of 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine 10.5 g and triethylamine 4.28 ml in DMF 26 ml at room temperature and then heated for 2 hours at 80 C. After cooling the title compound is isolated by filtration.

Powdered sodium hydroxide 5.86 g is added to a solution of N 5 3 dimethylamino acryloyl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl N N dimethyl formamidine 13 g prepared as described by S. Wang et al J. Med. Chem. 2004 47 1662 1675. and 1 methyl cyclopropanecarboxamidine hydrochloride 7.2 g prepared as described in EP0227415 in 2 methoxyethanol 98 ml and the mixture heated at 125 C. for 1 hour with stirring. The reaction mixture is cooled water is added and the title compound isolated by filtration. ESI MS M H 247 and M H 245.

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide 50 mg is added to a solution of L proline amide 19 mg and triethylamine 26 l in DMF 152 l A at room temperature. The mixture is stirred for 2 hours at 40 C. and then purified by preparative reversed phase chromatography. Fractions containing the title compound are captured with a 300 mg BondElut SPE SCX cartridge and then released with 7M ammonia in methanol solution 1 ml . The title compound is obtained by evaporation. ESI MS M H 275 and M H 273.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 42 but using 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 benzyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 423 and M H 421.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 ethyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 361 and M H 359.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 methoxymethyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 377 and M H 375.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 2 6 dichloro benzyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 491 493 and M H 489 491.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 isobutyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 389 and M H 387.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 4 methoxy phenoxymethyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 469 and M H 467.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 3 methoxy phenoxymethyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 467.

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 2 fluoro phenyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide 415 mg is added to a solution of L proline amide 137 mg and triethylamine 182 l in DMF 1.1 ml at room temperature. The mixture is stirred for 18 hours at 40 C. evaporated and crystallized from methanol 8 ml and water 2 ml to give the title compound as a white solid. ESI MS M H 427 and M H 425.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 2 fluoro phenyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine.

L Proline amide 9 mg is added to a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 trifluoromethyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide 25 mg and triethylamine 12 l in DMF 71 l at room temperature. The mixture is stirred for 18 hours at 25 C. and purified by preparative reversed phase chromatography. Fractions containing the title compound are captured with a 300 mg BondElut SPE SCX cartridge and then released with 7M ammonia in methanol solution 1 ml . The title compound is obtained by evaporation. ESI MS M H 401 and M H 399.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 trifluoromethyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 51 but using 4 methyl 5 2 1 1 2 trimethyl propyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 2 fluoro phenyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 417 and M H 415.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 51 but using 5 2 1 4 methoxy phenyl 1 methyl ethyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 2 fluoro phenyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 495 and M H 493.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 6 h at rt. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 15 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 100 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at 120 C. In Step 1.4 the reaction mixture is stirred for 30 min at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 65 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the crude product is not purified. In Step 1.7 3 fluoro 2 fluoromethyl 2 methyl propionyl chloride Step 55.1 is used.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 5.1 but using 3 fluoro 2 fluoromethyl 2 methyl propionic acid Step 55.2 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 73.2 but using 3 fluoro 2 fluoromethyl 2 methyl propionic acid methyl ester preparation WO 2007 053394 . ESI MS 137.0 M H .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 1 1 dimethyl propyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 403 and M H 401.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl 1 p tolyl ethyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 479 and M H 477.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 1 phenyl cyclopentyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 477 and M H 475.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 43 but using 4 methyl 5 2 cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 isopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 373 and M H 371.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 52 but using 4 methyl 5 2 cyclobutyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 trifluoromethyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine. ESI MS M H 387 and M H 385.

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 d tert butyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide 0.82 g is added to a stirred solution of L proline amide 0.29 g and triethylamine 0.81 ml in DMF 5 ml at room temperature. The reaction mixture is stood at room temperature for 22 hours then evaporated and the title compound is obtained as a white solid after crystallization twice with 2 1 methanol water. HPLC MS retention time 1.27 minutes M H 398.3 and M H 396.3.

Carbonyl diimidazole 0.77 g is added to a stirred solution of 5 2 d tert butyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine 1.11 g in DMF 4.3 ml at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stood for 18 hours at 25 C. after which time the title compound is isolated by filtration.

Powdered sodium hydroxide 3.71 g is added to a solution of N 5 3 dimethylamino acryloyl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl N N dimethyl formamidine 5.51 g and d 2 2 dimethyl propionamidine hydrochloride 4.50 g in 2 methoxyethanol 41 ml and the mixture is heated at 125 C. for 1 hour with stirring. The reaction mixture is cooled water is added and the crude product is isolated by filtration. The crude product is purified by preparative HPLC and the fractions containing the title compound partitioned between dichloromethane and aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The title compound is obtained as a yellow solid after evaporation of the dried dichloromethane layers. HPLC MS retention time 1.12 minutes M H 258.4.

A 2M solution of trimethylaluminium in toluene 61 ml is added dropwise to a suspension of ammonium chloride 6.53 g in toluene 46 ml cooled with an ice bath. The reaction mixture is stirred for 4 hours at room temperature and d 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid butyl ester 6.3 g is added. After heating at 80 C. for 4 days the reaction mixture is cooled to 0 C. and methanol 200 ml is added drop wise. After stirring and sonication for 1 hour at room temperature the reaction mixture is filtered through Hyflo washing with methanol and the filtrate is evaporated to give the title compound as an off white solid.

d tert Butylchloride 5.0 g is added portion wise to a suspension of magnesium 1.50 g in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml activated with a catalytic amount of iodine over 1 hour with heating as required to maintain a steady reflux. The reaction mixture is then heated for a further one hour to ensure complete Grignard formation. The above Grignard solution is then added dropwise to a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid butyl ester 7.5 g prepared as described by T. Werner and A. G. M. Barrett J. Org. Chem. 2006 71 4302 4304. in tetrahydrofuran 40 ml cooled with an ice bath. The reaction mixture is stirred for 18 hours at room temperature water 200 ml is added the mixture is filtered through Hyflo the filtrate is extracted with diethyl ether and the diethyl ether layers dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated to give the tile compound.

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 5 2 2 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide 50 mg is added to a stirred solution of L proline amide 18 mg and triethylamine 25 l in DMF 147 l at room temperature. The reaction mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 2 hours and purified by preparative reversed phase chromatography. Fractions containing the title compound are captured with a 300 mg BondElut SPE SCX cartridge and then released with 7M ammonia in methanol solution 1 ml . The title compound is obtained by evaporation. ESI MS M H 387 and M H 385.

Carbonyl diimidazole 487 mg is added to a solution of 4 methyl 5 2 2 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine 370 mg and triethylamine 251 l in DMF 1.5 ml at room temperature and then heated for 2 hours at 40 C. The reaction mixture is evaporated and triturated with chloroform. The title compound is isolated by filtration.

Powdered sodium hydroxide 300 mg is added to a solution of N 5 3 dimethylamino acryloyl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl N N dimethyl formamidine 1 g prepared as described by S. Wang et al J. Med. Chem. 2004 47 1662 1675. and cis trans 2 methyl cyclopropanecarboxamidine hydrochloride 0.61 g prepared as described in WO 03 087064 in 2 methoxyethanol 3.8 ml and the mixture heated at 125 C. for 1 hour with stirring. The reaction mixture is cooled filtered washing with water to give the title compound. MS M H 247 and M H 245.

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 diethylamino pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide 40 mg is added to a stirred solution of L proline amide 14 mg and triethylamine 19 l in DMF 147 l at room temperature. The reaction mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 2 hours and purified by preparative reversed phase chromatography. Fractions containing the title compound are captured with a 300 mg BondElut SPE SCK cartridge and then released with 7M ammonia in methanol solution 1 ml . The title compound is obtained by evaporation. ESI MS M H 404 and M H 402.

Carbonyl diimidazole 437 mg is added to a solution of 4 2 Amino 4 methyl thiazol 5 yl pyrimidin 2 yl diethyl amine 355 mg and triethylamine 207 l in DMF 1.4 ml at room temperature and then heated for 18 hours at 80 C. The reaction mixture is evaporated and triturated with chloroform. The title compound is isolated by filtration.

Powdered sodium hydroxide 150 mg is added to a solution of N 5 3 dimethylamino acryloyl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl N N dimethyl formamidine 0.5 g prepared as described by S. Wang et al J. Med. Chem. 2004 47 1662 1675. and 1 1 diethylguanidine 259 mg in 2 methoxyethanol 1.9 ml and the mixture heated at 125 C. for 1 hour with stirring. The reaction mixture is concentrated under vacuum and purified by normal phase chromatography eluent DCM EtOAc to give the title compound. ESI MS M H 264 and M H 262.

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 5 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide 69 mg is added to a stirred solution of L proline amide 22 mg and triethylamine 53 mg in DMF 1 ml at room temperature. The reaction mixture is stood at room temperature for 22 hours then evaporated and the title compound is obtained as a white solid after crystallization with methanol 2 ml and water 1 ml . HPLC MS retention time 1.80 minutes M H 443.1 and M H 441.2.

Carbonyl diimidazole 38 mg is added to a solution of 4 methyl 5 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine 65 mg in DCM 1 ml and DMF 0.2 ml at room temperature and then stood for 18 hours at 25 C. After cooling the title compound is isolated by filtration.

Powdered sodium hydroxide 0.42 g is added to a solution of N 5 E 3 dimethylamino acryloyl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl N N dimethyl formamidine 0.93 g prepared as described by S. Wang et al J. Med. Chem. 2004 47 1662 1675. and 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionamidine hydrochloride 0.54 g in 2 methoxyethanol 7 ml and the mixture is heated at 125 C. for 1 hour with stirring. The reaction mixture is cooled water is added and the aqueous layer is extracted 4 times with 10 methanol in dichloromethane. The combined organic layers are purified by reversed phase chromatography and sodium bicarbonate is added to the fractions containing the title compound to give a white precipitate which is collected by filtration. HPLC MS retention time 1.47 minutes M H 303.1.

The title compound is synthesized following the procedure described in step 61.3 with the following modifications. 3 3 3 Trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid butyl ester is used instead of d 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid butyl ester and the mixture is stirred 3 days at 80 C. The crude product is taken up in DCM treated with a small amount of HCl in EtOH and evaporated. The residue is triturated with DCM filtered and dried to give the title compound as an off white solid.

3 3 3 Trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid 3.0 g 19.2 mmol and a drop of DMF are dissolved in 30 mL of DCM and treated dropwise at RT with oxalyl chloride 1.85 mL 21.1 mmol . After 2 h gas evolution ceases and the mixture is treated slowly with triethyl amine 5.36 mL 38.4 mmol followed by n butanol 2.1 mL 23 mmol . The mixture is stirred over night the solvent evaporated and the residue stirred with hexanes. The solid is filtered off and the filtrate is evaporated to a brown red oil. Kugelrohr distillation 10 mbar 60 80 C. oven temperature gives the title compound a colorless liquid.

A mixture of S pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 2 amide 1 5 2 methanesulphinyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide 60 mg and N ethylmethylamine 45 mg is heated for 18 hours at 80 C. in a sealed tube. The crude product is then purified by preparative reversed phase chromatography. Fractions containing the title compound are captured with a 300 mg BondElut SPE SCX cartridge and then released with 7M ammonia in methanol solution 1 ml . The title compound is obtained by evaporation. ESI MS M H 390.

meta Chloroperoxybenzoic acid 0.50 g was added to a solution of S pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 2 amide 1 4 methyl 5 2 methylsulphanyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide 1.7 g in dichloromethane 8.5 ml at 0 C. After 1 hour the reaction mixture is evaporated and purified by normal phase chromatography eluting with a dichloromethane methanol gradient to give the title compound as a yellow solid. ESI MS M H 395 and M H 393.

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 5 2 methylsulphanyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide 1.0 g is added to a stirred solution of L proline amide 379 mg and triethylamine 0.51 ml in DMF 3 ml at room temperature. The reaction mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 2 hours then evaporated and the title compound is obtained as an orange solid after precipitation with dichloromethane and water. ESI MS M H 379 and M H 377.

Carbonyl diimidazole 1.77 g is added to a solution of 4 methyl 5 2 methylsulphanyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine 1.3 g in triethylamine 0.84 ml and DMF 5.5 ml at room temperature and stirred for 2 hours at 80 C. After cooling the title compound is isolated by filtration.

Powdered sodium hydroxide 1.09 g is added to a solution of N 5 3 dimethylamino acryloyl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl N N dimethyl formamidine 2.0 g prepared as described by S. Wang et al J. Med. Chem. 2004 47 1662 1675. and thiourea 0.57 g in ethanol 25 ml and the mixture is heated at reflux for 3 hour with stirring. The reaction mixture is cooled to room temperature and water then methyliodide 0.47 ml is added. After 1 hour at room temperature the ethanol is removed by evaporation and water is added and the pH is adjusted to 7 with 2N aqueous hydrochloric acid. The title compound is then obtained by filtration. ESI MS M H 239 and M H 237.

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 6 cyclopropyl pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide 78 mg is added to a stirred solution of L proline amide 30 mg and triethylamine 83 l in DMF 1 ml at room temperature. The reaction mixture is stood at room temperature for 18 hours evaporated and the title compound is obtained as a yellow white solid after crystallization with methanol 1 ml and water 0.5 ml . HPLC MS retention time 1.40 minutes M H 373.1 and M H 371.3.

Carbonyl diimidazole 74 mg is added to a solution of 5 6 cyclopropyl pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine 96 mg in DMF 2 ml at room temperature and stood for 18 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture is filtered washing with dichloromethane to give the title compound.

Concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.4 ml is added to N 5 6 cyclopropyl pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl acetamide 120 mg in ethanol 9 ml at room temperature and the mixture is heated at reflux for 18 hours. The cooled reaction mixture is evaporated neutralized with aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate and extracted with 10 methanol in DCM. The combined organic extracts are dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated to give the title compound. HPLC MS retention time 0.93 minutes M H 233.3.

Argon is bubbled through a mixture of 2 cyclopropyl 6 chloropyrazine 154 mg prepared by the method of A. F rstner et al J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002 214 13856 13863. 2 acetamido 4 methylthiazole 200 mg palladium acetate 24 mg tri tert butylphosphonium tetrafluoroborate 61 mg and cesium carbonate 678 mg in DMF 3 ml at room temperature for 5 minutes. The reaction mixture is heated in a sealed vial under an argon atmosphere for 45 minutes at 150 C. in a Biotage Initiator microwave apparatus. The reaction mixture is filtered and purified by preparative HPLC. Fractions containing the title compound are combined and evaporated to remove acetonitrile and the title compound obtained as a beige solid by filtration. HPLC MS retention time 1.65 minutes M H 275.3.

Carbonyl diimidazole 29 mg is added to a stirred solution of 4 methyl 5 5 trifluoromethyl pyridin 3 yl thiazol 2 ylamine 42 mg and triethylamine 50 l in DMF 1 ml at room temperature and the mixture is stood for 18 hours at room temperature. L Proline amide 20 mg is added and the reaction mixture is stood for a further 8 hours at room temperature evaporated and the title compound is obtained as a white solid after crystallization with methanol 3 ml and water 1.5 ml . ESI MS M H 400.

Trimethylsilyl chloride 0.3 ml is added to N 4 methyl 5 5 trifluoromethyl pyridin 3 yl thiazol 2 yl acetamide 44 mg in ethanol 2 ml at room temperature and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 4.5 hours. The reaction is then heated at 50 C. for 18 hours cooled evaporated and the title compound is obtained by filtration after trituration with diethyl ether.

Argon is bubbled through a mixture of 5 trifluoromethyl 3 pyridinylboronic acid hydrochloride 263 mg prepared as described in WO 2007 134828. 2 acetylamino 5 iodo 4 methylthiazole 260 mg prepared as described in WO 2006 125807 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenedichloro palladium II 38 mg sodium carbonate 488 mg in DME 2.3 ml and water 2.3 ml at room temperature for 5 minutes. The reaction mixture is heated in a sealed vial under an argon atmosphere for 30 minutes at 80 C. and then for 60 minutes at 80 C. in a Biotage Initiator microwave apparatus. After cooling the reaction mixture is extracted with DCM the combined organic layers evaporated with silica gel and purified by normal phase chromatography eluent gradient from DCM to 1 1 DCM ethyl acetate . The product containing fractions are then triturated with methanol 5 ml DMF 0.3 ml and water 1.3 ml and filtered to give the title compound as a beige solid.

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 6 d diethylamino pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide 82 mg is added to a stirred solution of L proline amide 28 mg and triethylamine 78 l in DMF 1 ml at room temperature. The reaction mixture is stood at room temperature for 14 hours evaporated and the title compound is obtained as a yellow white solid after crystallization with methanol 1 ml and water 0.5 ml . HPLC MS retention time 1.41 minutes M H 414.2 and M H 412.3.

Carbonyl diimidazole 78 mg is added to a solution of 5 6 d diethylamino pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine 121 mg in DMF 2 ml at room temperature and stood for 3.5 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture is filtered washing with dichloromethane to give the title compound.

Concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.4 ml is added to N 5 6 d diethylamino pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl acetamide 140 mg in ethanol 9 ml at room temperature and the mixture is heated at reflux for 40 hours. The cooled reaction mixture is evaporated neutralized with aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate and extracted with 10 methanol in DCM. The combined organic extracts are dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated to give the title compound. HPLC MS retention time 1.17 minutes M H 274.4.

Argon is bubbled through a mixture of 2 d diethylamino 6 chloropyrazine 293 mg 2 acetamido 4 methylthiazole 300 mg palladium acetate 24 mg tri tert butylphosphonium tetrafluoroborate 61 mg and cesium carbonate 1.02 g in DMF 3 ml at room temperature for 5 minutes. The reaction mixture is heated in a sealed vial under an argon atmosphere for 45 minutes at 150 C. in a Biotage Initiator microwave apparatus filtered and purified by preparative HPLC. Fractions containing the title compound are combined and evaporated to remove acetonitrile and the title compound obtained as a beige solid by filtration. HPLC MS retention time 1.68 minutes M H 316.3.

d Diethylamine 0.5 g is added to a stirred mixture of 2 6 dichloropyrazine 0.93 g and potassium carbonate 1.41 g in acetonitrile 4 ml at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then heated at 55 C. for 60 hours cooled water is added and then extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts are dried over sodium sulphate evaporated and purified by normal phase chromatography eluent DCM to give the title compound. HPLC MS retention time 2.10 minutes M H 196.4 and 198.4.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 68 but using diethylamine in place of d diethylamine. HPLC MS retention time 1.43 minutes M H 404.2 and 402.3.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 42 but using imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 cyclopropylmethyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide in place of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide. M.p. 220 222 C. ESI MS M H 387.1 TLC R 0.2 DCM EtOH 95 5 

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 42.1 but using 5 2 cyclopropylmethyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine and the reaction is stirred for 15 h. M.p. 240 243 C. ESI MS M H 305.1 TLC R 0.35 DCM EtOH 95 5 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 42.2 but using 2 cyclopropyl acetamidine hydrochloride in place of 1 methyl cyclopropanecarboxamidine hydrochloride. M.p. 198 200 C. ESI MS M H 247.1 TLC R 0.25 DCM EtOH 95 5 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 42 but using imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 2 fluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide in place of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 5 2 1 methylcyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide. M.p. 187 190 C. ESI MS M H 407.1 TLC R 0.3 DCM EtOH 95 5 

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 42.1 but using 5 2 2 fluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine and the reaction is stirred for 16 h at 80 C.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 42.2 but using 3 fluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionamidine hydrochloride in place of 1 methyl cyclopropanecarboxamidine hydrochloride. ESI MS M H 267.1 TLC R 0.4 DCM EtOH 95 5 .

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 42 but using imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 tert butyl 6 methyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide in place of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide. M.p. 197 199 C. ESI MS M H 403.1 TLC R 0.3 DCM EtOH 95 5 

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 42.1 but using 5 2 tert butyl 6 methyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine in place of 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyrimidin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine and the reaction is stirred for 16 h. ESI MS M H 355.2.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.2 but using N 5 2 tert butyl 6 methyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl acetamide in place of N 5 2 tert butyl pyridin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl acetamide and using 2 N HCl. The reaction mixture is stirred 16 h at RT and then 3 h at 90 C. ESI MS M H 263.1.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.3 but using 4 bromo 2 tert butyl 6 methyl pyrimidine in place of 4 bromo 2 tert butyl pyridine. ESI MS M H 305.2.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.4 but using 2 tert butyl 6 methyl 3H pyrimidin 4 one in place of 2 tert butyl 1H pyridin 4 one. ESI MS M H 229 231.0. TLC R 0.58 Hexanes DCM 7 3 

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but with the following modifications. In Example 1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 6 h at rt. In Step 1.1 the reaction mixture is stirred for 15 h at reflux. In Step 1.2 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 100 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.3 the reaction mixture is stirred for 4 h at 120 C. In Step 1.4 the reaction mixture is stirred for 30 min at 85 C. and extracted with EtOAc after being quenched. In Step 1.5 the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 h at 70 C. and trituration in MeOH is not performed. In Step 1.6 the crude product is not purified. In Step 1.7 3 fluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionyl chloride Step 76.1 is used.

The title compound is prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 5.1 but using 3 fluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid Step 73.2 .

A solution of 6.9 g 38.6 mmol 3 fluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid methyl ester in 30 mL of methanol is treated with 38.6 mL 77 mmol 2N NaOH and the mixture heated to reflux for 3 hours. The mixture is cooled to RT and the solvent evaporated. The residue is partitioned between water and DCM. The aqueous phase is acidified by the addition of 50 mL of 2N HCl and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is washed with brine dried with sodium sulfate and evaporated. The colorless residue is stirred with hexanes insoluble material is removed by filtration and the filtrate is evaporated to give the title compound as a colorless solid. ESI MS 119.0 M H .

27 mL of a 1 M solution of tetrabutylammonium fluoride in THF are added slowly and under ice cooling to a solution of 7.25 g 27.4 mmol 2 2 dimethyl 3 trifluoromethanesulfonyloxy propionic acid methyl ester in 150 mL of THF. The resulting solution is stirred 6 h at 0 C. and then 10 h at RT. The solvent is evaporated carefully and the residue partitioned between DCM and brine. The organic phase is washed with brine dried with sodium sulfate and evaporated carefully. The brown oil is distilled in a Kugelrohr oven oven temperature 120 to 150 C. to give the title compound as a colorless liquid.

To a solution of 3.64 g 27.5 mmol 3 hydroxy 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid methyl ester and 4.82 mL 41.3 mmol 2 6 lutidine in 50 mL dry DCM is slowly added trifluoromethanesulfonic acid anhydride 5.12 mL 30.3 mmol at 70 C. and under nitrogen. The yellow solution is stirred 5 min. at 70 C. then the cooling bath is removed and the mixture stirred 3 h at RT. Color change from yellow to orange to brown. DCM 50 mL is added and the solution is washed twice with 2 N HCl dried with sodium sulfate and evaporated to dryness. The brown residue is dried under vacuum and the title compound used without further purification. TLC R 0.72 EtOAc hexanes 1 2 .

Linear gradient 20 100 solvent A in 5 min 1.5 min 100 solvent A detection at 215 nm flow rate 1 mL min at 30 C. Column Nucleosil 100 3 C18 70 4.0 mm . Solvent A CHCN 0.1 TFA Solvent B HO 0.1 TFA.

Instrument Micromass Platform II eluent 15 methanol in water containing 0.2 of a 25 ammonium hydroxide solution

Instrument Hewlett Packard Agilent 1100 series column XBridge C18 2.5 microm 3.0 30 mm temperature 50 C. eluent 2 channel system Channel A 5 acetonitrile in water Channel B acetonitrile containing 1.0 formic acid

Instrument Gilson preparative HPLC system column Sunfire Prep C18 OBD 5 microm 30 100 mm temperature 25 C. eluent gradient from 5 100 acetonitrile in 0.05 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid over 20 minutes flow rate 30 ml minute detection UV 254 nm.

PI3K KinaseGlo assay 50 mL of compound dilutions were dispensed onto black 384 well low volume Non Binding Styrene NBS plates Costar Cat. No. NBS 3676 . L a phosphatidylinositol PI provided as 10 mg ml solution in methanol was transferred into a glass tube and dried under nitrogen beam. It was then resuspended in 3 OctylGlucoside OG by vortexing and stored at 4 C. The KinaseGlo Luminescent Kinase Assay Promega Madison WI USA is a homogeneous HTS method of measuring kinase activity by quantifying the amount of ATP remaining in solution following a kinase reaction.

5 L of a mix of PI OG with the PI3K subtype were added Table 1 . Kinase reactions were started by addition of 5 l of ATP mix containing in a final volume 10 L 10 mM TRIS HCl pH 7.5 3 mM MgCl 50 mM NaCl 0.05 CHAPS 1 mM DTT and 1 M ATP and occurred at room temperature. Reactions were stopped with 10 l of KinaseGlo and plates were read 10 mins later in a Synergy2 reader using an integration time of 0.1 seconds per well. 2.5 M of a pan class 1 PI3 kinase inhibitor standard was added to the assay plates to generate the 100 inhibition of the kinase reaction and the 0 inhibition was given by the solvent vehicle 90 DMSO in water . The standard was used as a reference compound and included in all assay plates in the form of 16 dilution points in duplicate.

The PI3K PI3K and PI3K constructs are fusion of p85 iSH2 domain and the respective p110 isoforms. The p85 fragment and p110 isoform genes were generated by PCR from first strand cDNA generated by RT PCR from commercial RNA from placenta testis and brain as described below. The PI3K construct was obtained from Roger Williams lab MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology Cambridge UK November 2003 and is described Pacold Michael E. Suire Sabine Perisic Olga Lara Gonzalez Samuel Davis Colin T. Walker Edward H. Hawkins Phillip T. Stephens Len Eccleston John F. Williams Roger L. Crystal structure and functional analysis of Ras binding to its effector phosphoinositide 3 kinase gamma. Cell 2000 103 6 931 943 .

BV1075 The construct for Baculovirus BV 1075 was generated by a three part ligation comprised of a p85 fragment and a p110 fragment cloned into vector pBlueBac4.5. The p85 fragment was derived from plasmid p1661 2 digested with Nhe Spe. The p110 fragment derived from is clone was verified by sequencing and used in a LR410 as a SpeI HindIII fragment. For the generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR410 the gateway LR reaction to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector was used. The cloning vector pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen was digested with Nhe HindIII. This resulted in the construct PED 153.8. The p85 component iSH2 was generated by PCR using ORF 318 described above as a template and one forward primer KAC1028 5 GCTAGCATGCGAGAATATGATAGAT TATATGAAG AATATACC SEQ ID NO 1 and two reverse primers KAC1029 5 GCCTCCACCAC CTCCGCCTGGTTTAATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTC SEQ ID NO 2 and KAC1039 5 TACTAGTCCGCCTCCAC CACCTCCGCCTCCACCACCTCCGCC SEQ ID NO 3 . The two reverse primers overlap and incorporate the 12x Gly linker and the N terminal sequence of the p110 gene to the SpeI site. The 12x Gly linker replaces the single Gly linker in the BV1052 construct. The PCR fragment was cloned into pCR2.1 TOPO Invitrogen . Of the resulting clones p1661 2 was determined to be correct by sequencing. This plasmid was digested with Nhe and SpeI and the resulting fragment was gel isolated and purified for sub cloning.

The p110 cloning fragment was generated by enzymatic digest of clone LR410 see above with Spe I and HindIII. The SpeI site is in the coding region of the p110 gene. The resulting fragment was gel isolated and purified for sub cloning. The cloning vector pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen was prepared by enzymatic digestion with Nhe and HindIII. The cut vector was purified with Qiagen column and then dephosphorylated with Calf Intestine alkaline phosphatase CIP BioLabs . After completion of the CIP reaction the cut vector was again column purified to generate the final vector. A three part ligation was performed using Roche Rapid ligase and the vendor specifications. The final plasmid was verified by sequencing.

BV949 PCR products for the inter SH2 domain iSH2 of the p85 PI3K PI13K and PI3K subunit and for the full length p110 subunit were generated and fused by overlapping PCR. The iSH2 PCR product was obtained from first strand cDNA generated by RT PCR from commercial human RNA from placenta testis and brain Clontech initially using primers gwG130 p01 5 CGAGAATATGATAGATTATATGAAGAAT 3 SEQ ID NO 5 and gwG130 p02 5 TGGTTT AATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTCAAT 3 SEQ ID NO 6 . Subsequently in a secondary PCR reaction Gateway recombination AttB1 sites and linker sequences were added at the 5 end and 3 end of the p85 iSH2 fragment respectively using primers gwG130 p03 5 GGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTACGAAGGAGATATACATATGCGAGAATATGATAGATTATAT GAAGAAT 3 SEQ ID NO 7 and gwG130 p05 5 ACTGAAGCATCCTCCTCCTCCTCCT CCTGGTTTAATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTC 3 SEQ ID NO 8 . The p11013 fragment was obtained by PCR using as template a p110 clone from unknown source that was sequence verified using primers gwG130 p04 5 ATTAAACCAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGATGCTT CAGTTTCATAATGCCTCCTGCT 3 SEQ ID NO 9 which contains linker sequences and the 5 end of p110 and gwG130 p06 5 AGCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGATGTGCTCCAGATC TGTAGTCTTTCCGAACTGTGTG 3 SEQ ID NO 10 which contains sequences of the 3 end of p110 fused to a Histidine tag. The p85 iSH2 p110 fusion protein was assembled by an overlapping PCR a reaction of the linkers at the 3 end of the iSH2 fragment and the 5 end of the p110 fragment using the above mentioned gwG130 p03 primer and a primer containing an overlapping Histidine tag and the AttB2 recombination sequences 5 GGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTTAAGCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGATGTGC TCC 3 SEQ ID NO 11 . This final product was recombined in a Gateway Invitrogen OR reaction into the donor vector pDONR201 Invitrogen to generate the ORF253 entry clone. This clone was verified by sequencing and used in a Gateway LR reaction Invitrogen to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector for generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR280. This LR280 has an amino acid mutation in the p85 sequence.

Construct obtained from Roger Williams lab MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology Cambridge UK November 2003 . Description of the construct in Pacold Michael E. Suire Sabine Perisic Olga Lara Gonzalez Samuel Davis Colin T. Walker Edward H. Hawkins Phillip T. Stephens Len Eccleston John F. Williams Roger L. Crystal structure and functional analysis of Ras binding to its effector phosphoinositide 3 kinase gamma. Cell 2000 103 6 931 943 . Constructs lacking the N terminal 144 aa.

BV1060 PCR products for the inter SH2 domain iSH2 of the p85 subunit and for the full length p110 subunit were generated and fused by overlapping PCR. The iSH2 PCR product was generated by using as a template the ORF318 see above and the primers gwG130 p03 5 GGGACAAG TTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTACGAAGGAGATATACATATGCGAGAATATGATAGATTATATGAAGAAT 3 SEQ ID NO 7 and gwG154 p04 5 TCCTCCTCCT CCTCCTCCTGGTTTAATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTC 3 SEQ ID NO 14 . The p110 fragment was obtained from first strand cDNA generated by RT PCR from commercial human RNA from placenta testis and brain Clontech using initially primers gwG154 p01 5 ATGCCCCCTGGGGTGGACTGCCCCAT 3 SEQ ID NO 15 and gwG154 p02 5 CTACTGCCTGT TGTCTTTGGACACGT 3 SEQ ID NO 16 . In a subsequent PCR reaction linker sequences and a Histidine tag was added at the 5 end and 3 end of the p110 fragment respectively using primers gw154 p03 5 ATTAAACCAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGACCCCCTGGGGTGGAC TGCCCCATGGA 3 SEQ ID NO 17 and gwG154 p06 5 AGCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGAT GTGCTCCCTGCCTGTTGTCTTTGGACACGTTGT 3 SEQ ID NO 18 . The p85 iSH2 p110 fusion protein was assembled in a third PCR reaction by the overlapping linkers at the 3 end of the iSH2 fragment and the 5 end of the p110 fragment using the above mentioned gwG130 p03 primer and a primer containing an overlapping Histidine tag and the Gateway Invitrogen AttB2 recombination sequences 5 GGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTTAA GCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGAGTGCTCC 3 SEQ ID NO 19 . This final product was recombined in a Gateway OR reaction into the donor vector pDONR201 Invitrogen to generate the ORF319 entry clone. This clone was verified by sequencing and used in a Gateway LR reaction Invitrogen to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector for generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR415.

PI3K PI3K and PI3K were purified in two chromatographic steps immobilized metal affinity chromatography IMAC on a Ni sepharose resin GE Healthcare and gel filtration utilizing a Superdex 200 26 60 column GE Healthcare . All buffers were chilled to 4 C. and lysis was performed chilled on ice. Column fractionation was performed at room temperature. All buffers used to purify PI3K contained 0.05 Triton X100 in addition to what is described below.

Typically frozen cells from 10 L of Tn5 cell culture were resuspended in Lysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 5 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL okadaic acid OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free 20 tablets 1 L buffer Roche Applied Sciences benzonase 25 U mL buffer EMD Biosciences at a ratio of 1 6 v v pellet to Lysis Buffer ratio and mechanically lysed by douncing 20 strokes using a tight fitting pestle. The lysate was centrifuged at 45 000 g for 30 minutes and the supernatant was loaded onto a pre equilibrated IMAC column 3 mL resin 100 mL lysate . The column was washed with 3 5 column volumes of Lysis Buffer followed by a second wash of 3 5 column volumes with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 45 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Protein was eluted with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 0.5 M NaCl 5 glycerol 250 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. The protein was further purified by gel filtration on a Superdex 200 26 60 column equilibrated in 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 0.5 M NaCl 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 5 mM DTT 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. An equal volume of Dialysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 50 glycerol 5 mM NaF 5 mM DTT was added to the pool and than dialyzed against Dialysis Buffer two changes one change overnight . Protein was stored at 20 C.

PI3K was purified in three chromatographic steps immobilized metal affinity chromatography on a Ni Sepharose resin GE Healthcare gel filtration utilizing a Superdex 200 26 60 column GE Healthcare and finally a ion exchange step on a Q HP column GE Healthcare . All buffers were chilled to 4 C. and lysis was performed chilled on ice. Column fractionation was performed at room temperature.

Typically frozen cells from 10 L of Tn5 cell culture were resuspended in Lysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 5 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL okadaic acid OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free 20 tablets 1 L buffer Roche Applied Sciences benzonase 25 U mL lysis buffer EMD Biosciences at a ratio of 1 10 v v pellet to Lysis Buffer ratio and mechanically lysed by douncing 20 strokes using a tight fitting pestle. The lysate was centrifuged at 45 000 g for 30 minutes and the supernatant was loaded onto a pre equilibrated IMAC column 5 mL resin 100 mL lysate . The column was washed with 3 5 column volumes of Lysis Buffer followed by a second wash of 3 5 column volumes with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 40 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Protein was eluted with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 250 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. The protein was further purified by gel filtration on a Superdex 200 equilibrated in 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL OAA 5 mM DTT 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. These fractions were diluted 1 10 v v pool volume to buffer ratio with Buffer A 20 mM Tris Cl pH 8.2 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM DTT and loaded onto a prepared Q HP column. After sample loading is completed we wash with Buffer A and 5 Buffer B 20 mM Tris Cl pH 8.2 1 M NaCl 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL OAA 5 mM DTT for 3 5 column volumes. We elute the protein using a 5 30 gradient of Buffer B. Typically the protein elutes at 200 mM NaCl. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. An equal volume of Dialysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 50 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM DTT was added to the pool and then dialyzed against Dialysis Buffer two changes one change overnight . Protein was stored at 20 C.

Compounds of the present invention in particular the preferred compounds of the present invention show an improved selectivity for PI3K alpha with respect to beta and or delta and or gamma subtypes e.g. as measured in a biochemical assay. Those compounds also preferably show selectivity for PI3K alpha with respect to beta and or delta and or gamma subtypes as measured in the cellular assay.

Final test article and protein concentrations as well as incubation duration are shown below Table 1 . Low test article concentrations were selected to comply with the assumption that reaction kinetics are evaluated at a concentration less than or approximately equal to Km. DMSO is known to have an inhibitory effect on CYP activity. Therefore the concentration of DMSO in the incubation media has been restricted to 0.01 v v so that interference to the metabolic process is minimized.

A typical experiment is performed in 96 well format with shaking incubation at 37 C. The in vitro metabolic clearance rate is derived from data collected at four time points eg. 0 5 15 and 30 minutes in a reaction including cofactor s NADPH and or UDPGA . A 30 minutes negative control incubation minus cofactor is also performed to assess CYP unrelated stability issues eg chemical instability CYP independent metabolism .

In general TA s in 10 mM DMSO are diluted 1 1000 into 0.6 ACN v v in DiH20 to 10 M. Immediately prior to the start of the experiment 1.25 mg mL of microsomal protein is suspended in 50 mM KPi. For evaluation of UGT mediated metabolism the suspension may be first pretreated by 5 min incubation on ice with alamethicin 25 g mg of microsomal protein . TA 35 L is added to 140 L of the microsomal suspensions for 175 L enzymesubstrate mixture. This enzyme.substrate mixture is preincubated for 15 min at 37 C. The 30 min negative control incubation is processed by combining 25 L of enzyme.substrate mixture with an equal volume of 50 mM KPi containing 4 mM MgCl2. Following a 30 minute incubation at 37 C. the mix is quenched by adding 50 L of ACN containing the MS internal standard 2 M alprenolol . The T 0 min time point is processed by combining 25 L of enzyme.substrate mixture directly with 50 L of ACN containing the MS internal standard 2 M alprenolol . 25 L of the cofactor solution is added 2 mM NADPH in 50 mM KPi plus 4 mM MgCl2 optionally including 2 mM UDPGA for CYP UGT assays to simulate the complete quenched reaction mixture.

The bulk reactions for the remaining time points are initiated by addition of 125 L of cofactor solution 2 mM NADPH in 50 mM KPi plus 4 mM MgCl2 to the remaining 125 L of enzyme.substrate mixture. For UGT metabolism 2 mM UDPGA is included in the cofactor solution as well. At specific reaction time points eg. 5 15 30 minutes reaction aliquots 50 L are removed and reactions are terminated by addition of acetonitrile 50 L containing mass spectrometry internal standard 2 M alprenolol . All the samples are centrifuged at 3400 g at 4 C. for 10 min and the supernatants are analyzed by LC MS MS for quantitation of remaining TA. The percentage of TA remaining relative to 0 minutes is used to estimate in vitro elimination rate constant kmic which can be used to calculate in vitro metabolic clearance rates.

Analysis of samples is performed on a high performance liquid chromatography tandem massspectrometry LC MS system consisting of a Waters Quattro Premiere mass spectrometer an ESI ion source a CTC HTS Pal autosampler and an Agilent LC Pump. Samples are separated on an Atlantic C18 column 2.1 30 mm 3.5 micron using the fast mobile phase gradient outlined in Table 2. Mobile phase A consists of purified water containing 10 mM ammonium formate. Mobile phase B consists of acetonitrile containing 0.01 formic acid. The flow rate is 1 mL min. The injection volume is 10 L. The first 30 seconds of elute is diverted to waste for sample clean up. Compounds are detected using the software MassLynx QuanLynx which collects intensity data for all fragments related to the molecular weight of the test compound. After collection of the raw data the software may combine the profiles of up to 3 quality fragments if needed. Generally the fragment peak of strongest intensity is integrated.

Each microsomal elimination rate kmic is based on a 4 point elimination curve tested in singlet. LC MS MS raw data for a reaction plate is returned as integrated analyte peak areas for the TA and IS. These values may be converted to analyte IS peak area ratios to standardize data comparisons.

The reaction time point eg. 0 5 20 or 30 min is plotted versus the natural logarithm of percent TA remaining relative to 0 minutes based on relative peak area ratio . The slope of this clearance plot kmic is used to calculate the in vitro half life t as shown in Eq. 1 . In order to focus on linear reaction kinetics whenever possible data points representing 

Luminescence is a well established readout to determine ATP concentrations and can thus be used to follow the activity of many kinases regardless of their substrate. The KinaseGlo Luminescent Kinase Assay Promega Madison WI USA is a homogeneous HTS method of measuring kinase activity by quantifying the amount of ATP remaining in solution following a kinase reaction.

Phosphoinositide 3 kinase was incubated at room temperature in 50 l medium containing 1 M ATP 5 mM MgCl2 50 mM NaCl 5 g ml soybeen phosphatidylinositol Avanti Polar lipids Cat. Nr 840044C 0.015 octoglucoside Sigma Cat. Nr O9882 0.01 CHAPS 1 mM DTT 2.5 DMSO and 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5. The kinase reaction was initiated by the addition of ATP 15 min preincubation of enzyme with inhibitor and stopped after 1 h with 50 l KinaseGlo Promega cat. Nr V6714 and luminescence was measured by a Victor II reader 0.1 s integration . Curves were fitted by non linear regression using the logistic equation model 205 of XLfit ID Business Solutions Guildford UK .

Using above assay system and using PI3K proteins obtained from constructs shown in the following table

BV1147 The activating mutation E545K found in many cancers was introduced into ORF318 by site directed mutagenesis with the QuickChange XL mutagenesis kit Stratagene . Uusing the method recommended by the manufacturer and the mutagenic primers gwG152 p15 5 CTCTCTGAAATCACTAAGCAGGAGAAAGATTTT 3 SEQ ID NO 21 and gwG152 p16 5 AAAATCTTTCT CCTGCTTAGTGATTTCAGAGAG 3 SEQ ID NO 22 ORF544 was generated. This clone was verified by sequencing and used in a Gateway LR reaction Invitrogen to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector for generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR561.

BV1097 The activating mutation H1047R found in many cancers was introduced into ORF318 by site directed mutagenesis with the QuickChange XL mutagenesis kit Stratagene .

Using the method recommended by the manufacturer and the mutagenic primers gwG152 p07 5 CAAATGAATGATGCACGTCATGGTGGCTGGACA 3 SEQ ID NO 24 and gwG152 p11 5 TGTCCAGCCA CCATGACGTGCATCATTCATTTG 3 SEQ ID NO 25 ORF396 was generated. This clone was verified by sequencing and used in a Gateway LR reaction Invitrogen to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 vector Invitrogen for generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR480.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which was submitted via EFS Web in ASCII format on Jun. 5 2010 on U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 488 589 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 476 268 and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

