---

title: Secure package delivery
abstract: Methods and systems for facilitating delivery of a package to a customer are described. The methods include receiving a delivery order, the order including a signature requirement; requesting a visual identification of an authorized receiver of the package from a user; receiving the visual identification from the user; and transmitting the visual identification to a shipping carrier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460411&OS=09460411&RS=09460411
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09460411
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130903
---
As a result of the Internet many merchants who have a physical presence e.g. a store in a mall also have created websites to sell the products they offer over the Internet. In addition many new merchants have created websites to sell their products only over the Internet and not in a physical store. To buy a product from these merchants a customer may visit the merchant s website select the products that the customer wants to buy and provide certain information e.g. name address and financial information to the merchant. After the merchant verifies the customer s information the merchant may send the product to the customer via a shipper e.g. United States Postal Service USPS Federal Express and United Postal Service UPS .

When the product is expensive the merchant or customer may request that a signature be obtained upon delivery of the package to ensure that the package is received. Often when the shipper arrives to deliver the package there is no one to sign for and receive the package or the person present is not old enough to receive the package. Thus the shipper is unable to deliver and the customer must reschedule the delivery or go to a local office of the shipper to pick up the package. Other times the person signing for the delivery is not authorized to receive the package and takes the package intended for the customer.

Thus a need exists for systems and methods that are more efficient and convenient for both the customer and the shipper.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure describes the use of visual identification to facilitate the delivery of a package to a user. A user browses items online makes a purchase and requests a delivery with a signature confirmation. The merchant receives the order and provides the necessary user information to a shipping carrier to deliver the package. The shipping carrier then transmits the order and delivery information to a service provider. The service provider requests and receives a visual identification of an authorized receiver of the package from the user. The service provider then transmits the visual identification to the shipping carrier who can use the visual identification to ensure delivery is made to the correct person.

As shown in the system includes a user device e.g. a smartphone one or more merchant servers or devices e.g. network server devices and at least one service provider server or device e.g. network server device in communication over the network . The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. As such in various embodiments the user device merchant servers or devices and service provider server or device may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address .

The user device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . The user device in one embodiment may be utilized by the user to interact with the service provider server over the network . For example the user may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers with the service provider server via the user device or send and receive information from the service provider server . In various implementations the user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data.

The user device in one embodiment includes a user interface application which may be utilized by the user to conduct transactions e.g. shopping purchasing bidding etc. with the merchant server or device or with the service provider server over the network . In one aspect purchase expenses may be directly and or automatically debited from an account related to the user via the user interface application .

In one implementation the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the service provider server via the network . In another implementation the user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over the network .

In an example the user is able to access merchant websites via the one or more merchant servers to view and select items for purchase and the user is able to purchase items from the one or more merchant servers via the service provider server . Accordingly in one or more embodiments the user may conduct transactions e.g. purchase and provide payment for one or more items from the one or more merchant servers via the service provider server .

The user device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software applications In still other examples the other applications may interface with the user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience.

The user device in one embodiment may include at least one user identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include one or more attributes related to the user such as personal information related to the user e.g. one or more user names passwords photograph images biometric IDs addresses phone numbers etc. and banking information and or funding sources e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers user account numbers security data and information etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user login request to the service provider server via the network and the user identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate the user with a particular user account maintained by the service provider server .

The user device in one embodiment includes a geo location component adapted to monitor and provide an instant geographical location i.e. geo location of the user device . In one implementation the geo location of the user device may include global positioning system GPS coordinates zip code information area code information street address information and or various other generally known types of geo location information. In one example the geo location information may be directly entered into the user device by the user via a user input component such as a keyboard touch display and or voice recognition microphone. In another example the geo location information may be automatically obtained and or provided by the user device via an internal or external GPS monitoring component. In one aspect when interfacing with the user device the user may elect to provide or may be prompted to provide permission for the release of geo location information. Accordingly the user may have exclusive authority to allow transmission of geo location information from the user device to the one or more merchant servers and or the service provider server . In any instance the one or more merchant servers and or the service provider server may communicate with the user device via the network and request permission to acquire geo location information from the user device .

The one or more merchant servers in various embodiments may be maintained by one or more business entities or in some cases by a partner of a business entity that processes transactions on behalf of business entities . Examples of businesses entities include merchant sites resource information sites utility sites real estate management sites social networking sites etc. which offer various items for purchase and payment. In some embodiments business entities may need registration of the user identity information as part of offering the items to the user over the network . As such each of the one or more merchant servers may include a merchant database for identifying available items which may be made available to the user device for viewing and purchase by the user . In one or more embodiments user may complete a transaction such as purchasing the items via service provider server .

Each of the merchant servers in one embodiment may include a marketplace application which may be configured to provide information over the network to the user interface application of the user device . For example user may interact with the marketplace application through the user interface application over the network to search and view various items available for purchase in the merchant database .

Each of the merchant servers in one embodiment may include at least one merchant identifier which may be included as part of the one or more items made available for purchase so that e.g. particular items are associated with particular merchants. In one implementation the merchant identifier may include one or more attributes and or parameters related to the merchant such as business and banking information. In various embodiments user may conduct transactions e.g. searching selection monitoring purchasing and or providing payment for items with each merchant server via the service provider server over the network .

A merchant website may also communicate for example using merchant server with the service provider through service provider server over network . For example the merchant website may communicate with the service provider in the course of various services offered by the service provider to merchant website such as payment intermediary between customers of the merchant website and the merchant website itself. For example the merchant website may use an application programming interface API that allows it to offer sale of goods in which customers are allowed to make payment through the service provider while user may have an account with the service provider that allows user to use the service provider for making payments to merchants that allow use of authentication authorization and payment services of service provider as a payment intermediary. The merchant website may also have an account with the service provider.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by a transaction processing entity which may provide processing for financial transactions and or information transactions between the user and one or more of the merchant servers . As such the service provider server includes a service application which may be adapted to interact with the user device and or each merchant server over the network to facilitate the searching selection purchase and or payment of items by the user from one or more of the merchant servers . In one example the service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. eBay of San Jose Calif. USA and or one or more financial institutions or a respective intermediary that may provide multiple point of sale devices at various locations to facilitate transaction routings between merchants and for example financial institutions.

The service application in one embodiment utilizes a payment processing application to process purchases and or payments for financial transactions between the user and each of the merchant servers . In one implementation the payment processing application assists with resolving financial transactions through validation delivery and settlement. As such the service application in conjunction with the payment processing application settles indebtedness between the user and each of the merchants wherein accounts may be directly and or automatically debited and or credited of monetary funds in a manner as accepted by the banking industry.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain one or more user accounts and merchant accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with one or more individual users e.g. user and merchants e.g. one or more merchants associated with merchant servers . For example account information may include private financial information of user and each merchant associated with the one or more merchant servers such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate financial transactions between user and the one or more merchants associated with the merchant servers . In various aspects the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users and or merchants that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account and or merchant account respectively.

In one implementation the user may have identity attributes stored with the service provider server and user may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with the service provider server . User attributes may include personal information banking information and or funding sources as previously described. In various aspects the user attributes may be passed to the service provider server as part of a login search selection purchase and or payment request and the user attributes may be utilized by the service provider server to associate user with one or more particular user accounts maintained by the service provider server .

In one embodiment the shipping delivery application communicates with a shipping carrier. The application determines the requirements for delivery e.g. a signature at the time of delivery receives visual identification of an authorized receiver for the delivery and transmits the visual identification to the shipping carrier. The visual identification includes an image of at least the face of the authorized receiver. Upon receipt of the visual identification the shipping carrier can identify that the receiver receiving the package and the authorized receiver match. This prevents the package from being stolen or re routed to another destination.

In some embodiments the shipping delivery application receives item and shipment information directly from the merchant server . In these cases the service provider acts as the shipping carrier and delivers the package to the user.

In various embodiments the shipping delivery application provides flexibility in the delivery of an item ordered on the online marketplace. For example the shipping delivery application can help shipping carriers interface with online users and their shipments by sending notifications of shipment statuses and opportunities to adjust delivery options to a user and by allowing the user to adjust or change authorized recipients. For example if the user is not home but his wife is home the user can designate his wife as the authorized recipient. The shipping delivery application may store the user s preset delivery preferences such as home or work address to transmit to a shipping carrier when needed. Delivery preferences may also indicate that the user can accept delivery at random locations. For example the user may be notified such as through the user s mobile device that the delivery is on route to the user s home. Because the user does not expect to be home the user may then request the shipping carrier to meet the user at a nearby coffee shop that may be on an approved stop for the shipping carrier. This ensures timely delivery with little or no inconvenience to either the user or the shipping carrier.

In other embodiments the shipping delivery application allows a user to have items shipped from a merchant without providing the user s address. The merchant may receive a request for a product from user . The merchant may send the product to a shipping carrier who in turn contacts the service provider to receive the delivery address of the user . In one embodiment the merchant sends the product to the service provider who already has the delivery address of the user .

A shipping carrier server may be in communication with the merchant service provider and or the user . The shipping carrier server includes a shipping carrier application to receive shipping information from the merchant and visual identification of an authorized receiver from service provider server . In various embodiments the shipping carrier application allows the user to determine the status of a shipment for an item associated with an order placed by the user .

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for facilitating delivery of a package is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The user places an order for an item online and requests that a signature be obtained upon delivery. The merchant receives the purchase request and payment for the item. In one embodiment payment is provided by the service provider server . The merchant sends item and shipment information to the shipping carrier server who then sends this information to service provider server .

At step the service provider receives the order from the shipping carrier server . The order may contain certain information such as the user s contact information the seller s contact information the shipping carrier s contact information an identification of the item the transaction amount for the item expected time of delivery and a requirement for a signature at the time of delivery.

At step the service provider server transmits a message to user to inform him or her to expect a delivery and that a signature is required. In one embodiment the message includes a request for visual identification of an authorized receiver of the item.

At step the user accesses a service provider site via the user device and logs in to his or her account. The user provides identifying data e.g. user name password answers to security questions etc. and is authenticated by the service provider. The user is now checked in. 

Once the user has checked in to the site the user may track the location of the package and the site may provide information on the expected delivery time along with the physical address where the delivery is to be made. In some embodiments the user can change or update the physical delivery address based on expected delivery time or based on convenience. For example the user may determine that the best delivery address at 3 PM is his or her business address but the expected delivery time is 5 PM so the user changes the delivery address to his or her home address. In another example the user decides that he or she wants to surprise a friend with a gift and changes the delivery address from his or her own address to the address of the friend. In various embodiments the user can even delay delivery of the package to a more suitable time. For instance the user may be out of town or on vacation when a package is to be delivered. The user can have the package delivered at a later date e.g. after he or she is back in town.

In other embodiments the user s geo location can be tracked upon checking in so that the shipping carrier can determine the best place for delivery. Both the user s location and the shipping carrier s location can be updated in real time so that a mutually convenient location for the user and shipping carrier to meet can be determined.

At step the user sends a visual identification of an authorized receiver of the package to the service provider. The visual identification may be in the form of a picture a video or a combination thereof. The visual identification should include at least a recent and clear image of the face of the authorized receiver so that the shipping carrier can readily recognize and identify the receiver. In some embodiments the service provider server may reject the provided visual identification if the image is unclear or blurry and request another form of visual identification from the user . In various embodiments the user can change the authorized recipient of the package and the visual identification of the authorized receiver based on location of the package and expected delivery time.

At step the service provider server receives the visual identification and at step the service provider transmits the visual identification to the shipping carrier server . In one embodiment the service provider server stores the visual identification in a user account of the user .

When the shipping carrier brings the package to a physical address at step the shipping carrier compares the visual identification to the person receiving and signing for the package at step . If the person matches the visual identification the shipping carrier leaves the package with the person. If not the shipping carrier takes the package and makes other delivery arrangements with the user .

Referring now to a block diagram of a system is illustrated suitable for implementing embodiments of the present disclosure including user device one or more merchant servers or devices and service provider server or device . System such as part of a cell phone a tablet a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components including one or more of a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a network interface component a display component or alternatively an interface to an external display an input component e.g. keypad or keyboard and a cursor control component e.g. a mouse pad .

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component . These may include instructions to process financial transactions make payments receive and transmit visual identifications etc. In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of one or more embodiments of the disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Memory may be used to store visual representations of the different options for searching auto synchronizing making payments or conducting financial transactions. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. Some common forms of computer readable media include for example RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the disclosure may be performed by system . In various other embodiments a plurality of systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of LAN WLAN PTSN or various other wired or wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the disclosure in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

In view of the present disclosure it will be appreciated that various methods and systems have been described according to one or more embodiments for facilitating delivery of a package to a user.

Although various components and steps have been described herein as being associated with user device merchant server shipping carrier server and service provider server of it is contemplated that the various aspects of such servers illustrated in may be distributed among a plurality of servers devices and or other entities.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network wherein the one or more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein as non transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising steps described herein and methods performed by one or more devices such as a hardware processor user device server and other devices described herein.

