---

title: Stimulation lead comprising internal flex film component and method of fabrication
abstract: In one embodiment, a stimulation lead for applying electrical pulses to tissue of a patient, the stimulation lead comprises: a plurality of electrodes on a first end of the lead body; a plurality of terminals on a second end of the lead body; a lead body comprising a flex film component disposed within insulative material, wherein (i) the flex film component comprises a plurality of electrical traces, (ii) the plurality of electrical traces electrically couple the plurality of electrodes with the plurality of terminals, and (iii) the flex film component comprises a plurality of bends along a substantial length of the lead body; wherein the stimulation lead is adapted to elastically elongate under application of stretching forces to the lead body without disconnection of the electrical connections between the plurality of electrodes and the plurality of terminals through the electrical traces of the flex film component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08831744&OS=08831744&RS=08831744
owner: Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc.
number: 08831744
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130429
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 070 055 filed Mar. 23 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 316 546 filed Mar. 23 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is generally related to implantable stimulation lead for application of electrical pulses to tissue of a patient and methods of fabrication.

Neurostimulation systems are devices that generate electrical pulses and deliver the pulses to nerve tissue to treat a variety of disorders. Spinal cord stimulation SCS is the most common type of neurostimulation. In SCS electrical pulses are delivered to nerve tissue in the spine typically for the purpose of chronic pain control. While a precise understanding of the interaction between the applied electrical energy and the nervous tissue is not fully appreciated it is known that application of an electrical field to spinal nervous tissue can effectively mask certain types of pain transmitted from regions of the body associated with the stimulated nerve tissue. Specifically applying electrical energy to the spinal cord associated with regions of the body afflicted with chronic pain can induce paresthesia a subjective sensation of numbness or tingling in the afflicted bodily regions. Thereby paresthesia can effectively mask the transmission of non acute pain sensations to the brain.

SCS systems generally include a pulse generator and one or more leads. A stimulation lead includes a lead body of insulative material that encloses wire conductors. The distal end of the stimulation lead includes multiple electrodes that are electrically coupled to the wire conductors. The proximal end of the lead body includes multiple terminals which are also electrically coupled to the wire conductors that are adapted to receive electrical pulses. The distal end of a respective stimulation lead is implanted within the epidural space to deliver the electrical pulses to the appropriate nerve tissue within the spinal cord that corresponds to the dermatome s in which the patient experiences chronic pain. The stimulation leads are then tunneled to another location within the patient s body to be electrically connected with a pulse generator or alternatively to an extension. 

The pulse generator is typically implanted within a subcutaneous pocket created during the implantation procedure. In SCS the subcutaneous pocket is typically disposed in a lower back region although subclavicular implantations and lower abdominal implantations are commonly employed for other types of neuromodulation therapies.

The pulse generator is typically implemented using a metallic housing that encloses circuitry for generating the electrical pulses control circuitry communication circuitry a rechargeable battery etc. The pulse generating circuitry is coupled to one or more stimulation leads through electrical connections provided in a header of the pulse generator. Specifically feedthrough wires typically exit the metallic housing and enter into a header structure of a moldable material. Within the header structure the feedthrough wires are electrically coupled to annular electrical connectors. The header structure holds the annular connectors in a fixed arrangement that corresponds to the arrangement of terminals on a stimulation lead.

Known techniques for fabrication of lead bodies involve providing multiple conductors within insulative material. The conductors may be helically wrapped in a controlled manner. Alternatively the conductors may be arranged in a linear manner along the length of the lead body. Extrusion techniques may be employed to provide the insulative material. Additionally or alternatively an outer sheath of insulative material may be provided over the conductors. Despite the differences in different fabrication techniques known fabrication techniques are adapted to cause the lead body to be sufficiently robust to withstand repetitive flexing in the human body over a long period of time. Such known techniques can be relatively complex time consuming and expensive.

In one embodiment a stimulation lead for applying electrical pulses to tissue of a patient the stimulation lead comprises a plurality of electrodes on a first end of the lead body a plurality of terminals on a second end of the lead body a lead body comprising a flex film component disposed within insulative material wherein i the flex film component comprises a plurality of electrical traces ii the plurality of electrical traces electrically couple the plurality of electrodes with the plurality of terminals and iii the flex film component comprises a plurality of bends along a substantial length or a majority of the lead body wherein the stimulation lead is adapted to elastically elongate under application of stretching forces to the lead body without disconnection of the electrical connections between the plurality of electrodes and the plurality of terminals through the electrical traces of the flex film component.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly certain features and or technical advantages in order that the detailed description that follows may be better understood. Additional features and or advantages will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The novel features both as to organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the appended claims.

System includes implantable pulse generator that is adapted to generate electrical pulses for application to tissue of a patient. Implantable pulse generator typically comprises a metallic housing that encloses pulse generating circuitry controller charging coil not shown battery far field and or near field communication circuitry not shown battery charging circuitry etc. of the device. Although an implantable pulse generator is shown for the embodiment of an external pulse generator e.g. a trial stimulator may alternatively be employed. The controller typically includes a microcontroller or other suitable processor for controlling the various other components of the device. Software code is typically stored in memory of the pulse generator for execution by the microcontroller or processor to control the various components of the device.

A processor and associated charge control circuitry for an implantable pulse generator is described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 20060259098 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR USE IN PULSE GENERATION which is incorporated herein by reference. Circuitry for recharging a rechargeable battery of an implantable pulse generator using inductive coupling and external charging circuits are described in U.S. patent Ser. No. 11 109 114 entitled IMPLANTABLE DEVICE AND SYSTEM FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION which is incorporated herein by reference. Examples of commercially available implantable pulse generators and related devices include the EON MINI pulse generator RAPID PROGRAMMER system and patient controller devices available from St. Jude Medical Neuromodulation Plano Tex. the PRECISION PLUS SCS System including pulse generator cordless charger programmer with I SCULPT and patient Remote Control available from Boston Scientific Neuromodulation Corporation Valencia Calif. and the RESTOREULTRA neurostimulator N VISION Clinician Programmer MYSTIM Patient Programmer and available from Medtronic Inc. Minneapolis Minn. . Stimulation leads according to some representative embodiment may be adapted to connect and or otherwise function with any of these commercially available devices directly and or through the use of an extension or adapter such as the OMG adapter from Boston Scientific Neuromodulation .

An example and discussion of constant current pulse generating circuitry is provided in U.S. Patent Publication No. 20060170486 entitled PULSE GENERATOR HAVING AN EFFICIENT FRACTIONAL VOLTAGE CONVERTER AND METHOD OF USE which is incorporated herein by reference. One or multiple sets of such circuitry may be provided within pulse generator . Different pulses on different electrodes may be generated using a single set of pulse generating circuitry using consecutively generated pulses according to a multi stimset program as is known in the art. Alternatively multiple sets of such circuitry may be employed to provide pulse patterns that include simultaneously generated and delivered stimulation pulses through various electrodes of one or more stimulation leads as is also known in the art. Various sets of parameters may define the pulse characteristics and pulse timing for the pulses applied to various electrodes as is known in the art. Although constant current pulse generating circuitry is contemplated for some embodiments any other suitable type of pulse generating circuitry may be employed such as constant voltage pulse generating circuitry.

Stimulation system further comprises one or more stimulation leads . Stimulation lead s may be intended for long term implantation or for short term trial use as known in the art. Stimulation lead comprises a lead body of insulative material about a plurality of conductors that extend from a proximal end of lead to its distal end. The conductors electrically couple a plurality of electrodes to a plurality of terminals not shown of lead . The terminals are adapted to receive electrical pulses and the electrodes are adapted to apply stimulation pulses to tissue of the patient. Also sensing of physiological signals may occur through electrodes the conductors and the terminals. Additionally or alternatively various sensors not shown may be located near the distal end of stimulation lead and electrically coupled to terminals through conductors within the lead body .

Stimulation system optionally comprises extension lead . Extension lead is adapted to connect between pulse generator and stimulation lead . That is electrical pulses are generated by pulse generator and provided to extension lead via a plurality of terminals not shown on the proximal end of extension lead . The electrical pulses are conducted through conductors within lead body to housing . Housing includes a plurality of electrical connectors e.g. Bal Seal connectors that are adapted to connect to the terminals of lead . Thereby the pulses originating from pulse generator and conducted through the conductors of lead body are provided to stimulation lead . The pulses are then conducted through the conductors of lead and applied to tissue of a patient via electrodes .

In practice stimulation lead is implanted within a suitable location within a patient adjacent to tissue of a patient to treat the patient s particular disorder s . The lead body extends away from the implant site and is eventually tunneled underneath the skin to a secondary location. Housing of extension lead is coupled to the terminals of lead at the secondary location and is implanted at that secondary location. Lead body of extension lead is tunneled to a third location for connection with pulse generator which is implanted at the third location . For trial stimulation. the terminal end of lead is left external to the patient s body and is coupled to the connector portion of an external pulse generator as is known in the art.

Controller device may be implemented to recharge battery of pulse generator although a separate recharging device could alternatively be employed . A wand may be electrically connected to controller device through suitable electrical connectors not shown . The electrical connectors are electrically connected to coil the primary coil at the distal end of wand through respective wires not shown . Typically coil is connected to the wires through capacitors not shown . Also in some embodiments wand may comprise one or more temperature sensors for use during charging operations.

The patient then places the primary coil against the patient s body immediately above the secondary coil not shown i.e. the coil of the implantable medical device. Preferably the primary coil and the secondary coil are aligned in a coaxial manner by the patient for efficiency of the coupling between the primary and secondary coils. Controller generates an AC signal to drive current through coil of wand . Assuming that primary coil and secondary coil are suitably positioned relative to each other the secondary coil is disposed within the field generated by the current driven through primary coil . Current is then induced in secondary coil. The current induced in the coil of the implantable pulse generator is rectified and regulated to recharge battery by charging circuitry . Charging circuitry may also communicate status messages to controller during charging operations using pulse loading or any other suitable technique. For example controller may communicate the coupling status charging status charge completion status etc.

External controller device is also a device that permits the operations of pulse generator to be controlled by user after pulse generator is implanted within a patient although in alternative embodiments separate devices are employed for charging and programming. Also multiple controller devices may be provided for different types of users e.g. the patient or a clinician . Controller device can be implemented by utilizing a suitable handheld processor based system that possesses wireless communication capabilities. Software is typically stored in memory of controller device to control the various operations of controller device . Also the wireless communication functionality of controller device can be integrated within the handheld device package or provided as a separate attachable device. The interface functionality of controller device is implemented using suitable software code for interacting with the user and using the wireless communication capabilities to conduct communications with IPG .

Controller device preferably provides one or more user interfaces to allow the user to operate pulse generator according to one or more stimulation programs to treat the patient s disorder s . Each stimulation program may include one or more sets of stimulation parameters including pulse amplitude pulse width pulse frequency or inter pulse period pulse repetition parameter e.g. number of times for a given pulse to be repeated for respective stimset during execution of program etc. IPG modifies its internal parameters in response to the control signals from controller device to vary the stimulation characteristics of stimulation pulses transmitted through stimulation lead to the tissue of the patient. Neurostimulation systems stimsets and multi stimset programs are discussed in PCT Publication No. WO 01 93953 entitled NEUROMODULATION THERAPY SYSTEM and U.S. Pat. No. 7 228 179 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING COMPLEX TISSUE STIMULATION PATTERNS which are incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments stimulation lead is fabricated using an internal flex film component. depicts stimulation lead body according to one representative embodiment. Stimulation lead body comprises flex film component within insulative material . Flex film component includes a plurality of conductive traces sealed within the flex film material e.g. liquid crystal polymer LCP .

In one embodiment two layers of flex film are included within flex film component and two respective sets and of conductive traces are provided. In this specific embodiment eight conductive traces are provided for each layer within the LCP material. In one embodiment each conductor trace is 50 microns wide and 18 microns thick. In a respective layer of flex film component respective conductor traces are separated by a 50 micron pitch. Suitable materials for conductor traces include copper gold platinum platinum iridium traces and or the like. The conductive traces extend along the length of lead body for the purposes of conducting stimulating current along the length of lead body between electrodes and terminals. The distal ends of the two sets and of conductive traces are shown to be exposed for the sake of illustration. Flex film component may be fabricated using conventional processes. Although LCP is employed according to one representative embodiment other suitable flexible polymer materials may be employed such as polyimide.

As shown in flex film component is provided with a serpentine configuration within lead body . That is flex film component is sinuous bending up and down in respective curves repeatedly along the length of lead body . This sinuous or serpentine portion preferably substantially extends between the distal and proximal portions. In another embodiment the sinuous or serpentine portion or portions cover a majority of the length of lead body . When a stretching force is applied to lead body flex film component is capable of elastic elongation. That is lead body will increase its length under the stretching force by reducing the curvature in the bends of flex film component . When the stretching force is removed flex film component returns to its prior configuration.

Referring again to stimulation lead body comprises elastic tube Elastic tube preferably provides a low friction surface to ease insertion and removal of a stiffening steering stylet through lead body . In one embodiment elastic tube possess an inner diameter of approximately 0.020 inches. Also elastic tube is adapted to flex and elongate. A suitable material for elastic tube is CARBOSIL a silicone polycarbonate urethane or CarobSil F a fluorinated silicone polycarbonate urethane .

Insulative material surrounding flex film component and elastic tube is likewise capable of elastic elongation by suitably selecting material characteristics of material . A relatively low durometer may be selected for material for example at approximately or below a durometer of 40 shore A.

Fabrication of stimulation lead body may occur using different combinations of processing steps. In some embodiments the process begins by fabricating elastic tube . In one embodiment a TEFLON coated mandrel is coated with suitable elastic biocompatible insulative material. The coated mandrel is cut to length. A length of flex film component with embedded conductive traces is fabricated. Any suitable length may be employed for tube and flex film component . For example in one embodiment tube and flex film component in their non stretched or relaxed states are fabricated to be approximately 30 cm. When component is adapted to include multiple layers the layers are fabricated in a stair stepped manner at the ends of component to facilitate access to each layer. The medial portion of flex film component is fabricated or post fabrication processed to repeatedly bend back and forth along the length of component while the respective ends of flex film component are preferably left substantially flat. As can be appreciated the leads may also be fabricated in a continuous process to offer improvements in productivity.

Upon fabrication of these components flex film component and tube are adhered together. Insulative material is provided over the assembly of flex film component and tube . Any suitable process may be employed to provide insulative material including dip coating spraying over molding etc. Centerless grinding or other mechanical processing may be applied to obtain a substantially uniform outer diameter. In one embodiment an outer diameter of lead body of 0.060 inches is obtained although any suitable diameter may be selected.

By fabricating lead body in the discussed manner lead body is capable of elastic elongation under relatively low stretching forces. Also after removal of the stretching force lead body is capable of resuming its original length and profile. For example lead body may stretch 10 20 25 35 or even up or above to 50 at forces of about 0.5 1.0 and or 2.0 pounds of stretching force. The ability to elongate at relatively low forces may present one or more advantages for implantation in a patient. For example as a patient changes posture e.g. bends the patient s back the distance from the implanted pulse generator to the stimulation target location changes. Lead body may elongate in response to such changes in posture without damaging the conductors of lead body or disconnecting from pulse generator. Also deep brain stimulation implants cortical stimulation implants and occipital subcutaneous stimulation implants usually involve tunneling of the lead body through tissue of the patient s neck to a location below the clavicle. Movement of the patient s neck subjects a stimulation lead to significant flexing and twisting which may damage the conductors of the lead body. Due to the ability to elastically elongate lead body is better adapted for such implants than some other lead body designs.

After fabrication of lead body electrodes and terminals are provided on lead body to form a functional stimulation lead . The respective layers of flex film component are preferably arranged to facilitate electrode and terminal fabrication. As shown in the conductive traces of the lower layer of flex film component extend beyond the conductive traces of the upper layer of flex film component . Thereby traces are readily accessible for subsequent electrical connection with other electrical components.

Further in one embodiment as shown in isolation in a respective bond or connection pad is fabricated on the upper surface of flex film component . Each pad is electrically connected to one of the electrical traces of sets and of traces. Although only one end of flex film component is shown in sets of pads are preferably provided on each end of flex film component for subsequent electrical connection with electrodes and terminals.

A number of suitable techniques may be employed for this process see electrode attachment techniques disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 039 470 entitled Medical lead and method for medical lead manufacture which is incorporated herein by reference . In one embodiment a jumper wire is utilized to connect to bond pad through an aperture in lead body . The jumper wire is welded to the conductive band placed about the lead body . Crimping or swaging of the conductive band may be employed to place the conductive band about the lead body.

In one embodiment electrode is fabricated using a liquid dispensing process. For example a conductive polymer in a suitable solvent may be disposed about the circumference of lead body . During the dispensing process the conductive polymer fills the aperture in lead body and forms a conductive ring at the appropriate axial position along lead body . After application of the conductive polymer plating of conductive material e.g. platinum may also be employed to form electrode . Also another conductive polymer material e.g. a PEDOT based conductive polymer material may be employed over the initial dispensed material.

In other embodiments a paddle style distal end with an array of electrodes may be provided. Each electrode may be electrically coupled to a respective conductive trace of flex film component through a respective bond pad and a respective jumper wire. In another embodiment segmented electrodes may be fabricated in lieu of circumferential electrodes.

In one embodiment the terminal end not shown may be fabricated to include a bifurcated structure. In such an embodiment the lower layer and corresponding conductive traces may be split from the upper layer and corresponding traces of flex film component which are each encapsulated or enclosed within separate sections of insulative material . Two separate sets of terminals may then be provided in electrical connection with respective bond pads for each of the separate layers of flex film component . Bifurcation at the terminal end may be appropriate to adapt the stimulation lead for conventional pulse generator header designs e.g. two separate sets of eight Bal Seal connectors .

Further terminal portions and are foldable. In terminal portions and are shown fully extended. In terminal portions and are folded upon themselves thereby following substantially round cross sections. In the folded configuration terminal portions and substantially conform to the dimensions of conventional stimulation leads. For example in the configuration shown in terminal portions and may be inserted within respective header apertures of an implantable pulse generator e.g. an EON MINI pulse generator . In the configuration shown in by extending terminal portions and terminal portions and may be passed through a conventionally sized needle used for epidural implants.

Although certain representative embodiments and advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate when reading the present application other processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the described embodiments may be utilized. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

