---

title: Directed interaction of device
abstract: Described are methods and systems of providing directed interaction from one or more presenter devices to one or more participant devices. Directed interaction allows one or more presenters to change application state, device settings, or both on the participant devices. Within the constraints imposed by the presenter device, the participant devices may be able to change content presentation, position, and so forth. The participant devices may also generate participant status data, which may be provided to the presenter devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571554&OS=09571554&RS=09571554
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09571554
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130509
---
Devices may be used to access content such as electronic books eBooks audio video applications and so forth. This content may be used in situations including education business medicine and so forth.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Applications and content such as eBooks audio video web pages and so forth may be accessed using a wide variety of devices. These devices may include televisions tablet computers smartphones personal computers electronic book eBook readers gaming consoles set top boxes portable media players and so forth.

These devices and the consumption of content may be used in situations such as education business and so forth. For example while teaching a history class a teacher may wish to direct or guide the consumption of applications and content on the devices used by students.

Described in this disclosure are systems and techniques for providing directed interaction on one or more devices. A directed interaction allows one or more presenters to manage content presentation device functionality and so forth of the participant at different levels of granularity. This may be done by changing the application state device settings or both on a participant device. For example during a directed interaction a presenter may use a presenter device to generate presenter data which specifies a particular passage of text within a chapter for participants to consume. The participant devices receive participant setting data based on the presenter data and present the particular passage as specified. The presentation on the devices even if the same content may vary based on individual settings of the different participant devices. For example the users of the different participant devices may have each configured their respective devices to present text using a particular font size with a particular color audibly and so forth. Using directed interaction the participating user retains some control over the participant device and may have control over how the content is presented. As a result directed interaction enables a collaborative presentation of content.

The presenter devices and the participant devices may be the same or different. In one implementation all users may have similar tablet computers while in another implementation some users may use smartphones while others use tablet computers of different makes and still others use laptops. A management server may be configured to receive from the presenter device the presenter data and generate participant setting data appropriate to configure the recipient devices. In some implementations a peer to peer system may be used where the presenter and participant devices work in conjunction with one another to provide directed interaction without the server.

Additionally the roles of presenter and participant may vary during operation. For example in a collaborative meeting the designation and corresponding control capabilities of the presenter may be transferred or delegated to different users such that one or more users may be a presenter a participant or both.

The devices and their corresponding users may be categorized as presenters or participants . The one or more presenters include users who are leading a directed interaction. This direction may include specifying particular content or a portion thereof providing application or device settings and so forth. For example the user who is the presenter may be a teacher lecturer chairperson and so forth who is discussing material included in an eBook. The presenter is able to place and implement constraints on the operation of the devices of the participants . The one or more users who are participants thus find the operation of their respective devices constrained. Continuing the example the participant user may find that application switching is constrained such that during the directed interaction of the class the device cannot switch from the eBook being discussed to a game.

For ease of discussion the devices used by the users acting as presenters are referred to as presenter devices while those used by the users acting as participants are referred to as participant devices. For example as shown in this illustration the device is a presenter device while the devices D are participant devices. In some implementations a particular user and one or more devices may be configured to operate as the presenter the participant or both at a given time. For example the user acts as a presenter to use the device to send a state of the map application to another device while receiving and implementing an internet browser application state. The devices may be at one or more physical locations. For example the devices D may all be within a single auditorium or may be located in multiple homes.

The devices may be connected to one or more networks . The networks may include a wireless local area network WLAN cabled local area network LAN personal area networks PAN and so forth. In some implementations the network may be ad hoc such as in a peer to peer arrangement or may be structured such as with one or more access points mediating data transfer.

The network may also be coupled to one or more other devices such as a management server . The management server is configured to facilitate the directed interaction and is discussed in more detail below.

Returning to the devices each device may include a communication module one or more application modules content a presenter module a participant module and so forth. The communication module is configured to support communication between the devices the management server and so forth using the network . The application modules may include one or more of eBook readers browsers calculators word processors spreadsheets slideshow presenters and so forth. One or more of the application modules may be configured to access content . The content may include eBooks audio video uniform resource locators URL uniform resource identifiers URI and so forth. For example the content may include an eBook about the history of Seattle as well as links to interactive websites containing maps of Seattle during different historical periods. The content may have been received from another device from a content distribution server from the management server or another device.

The presenter module is configured to generate presenter data . The presenter module may be configured to acquire information about the state of the device the application modules executing on the device or both. Based on this information the presenter data is generated. The presenter data may then be sent by the communication module to the management server the participant devices or both. The presenter data is discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The management server may include a device management module . The device management module is configured to accept the presenter data and generate participant setting data . The participant setting data is configured to cause the participant device to modify the state of one or more application modules executing on the participant device . In some implementations the presenter data and the participant setting data may be substantially the same such as where the presenter device and the participant device are the same make and model and have the same configuration.

In implementations where the presenter device and the participant device differ the device management module may convert the presenter data to the participant setting data . This conversion results in the participant setting data which is configured to cause the participant device to modify the state of one or more of the application modules the device state and so forth of the participant device . The generation of the participant setting data based on the presenter data is discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The management server sends the participant setting data to the participant module of one or more participant devices . The participant module is configured to use the participant setting data to change one or more of the state of the application modules the device settings and so forth. For example the participant module on the device may receive participant setting data which sets the device state to prevent task switching such that the user is unable to switch between different application modules executing on the device . Using this participant setting data the participant module may change the state of the device such that user task switching is disabled.

The participant module may be configured to enable acceptance of user input from user input devices such as touch sensor buttons and so forth. This acceptance may be constrained by the participant setting data . For example the participant setting data may allow the participant user to navigate within a chapter or subsection of the eBook presented but prevent the user from opening up another book.

The participant module may be configured to generate participant status data . The participant status data comprises information indicative of the current state of one or more application modules the device and so forth. For example the participant status data may indicate that the device is current presenting at a particular location in the content the user is currently logged into that device and that sound output is muted.

The device management module may receive the participant status data and provide information based on that participant status data to the presenter using the presenter device or another device. For example participant status data may indicate that the user device is presenting the end of the eBook currently being discussed by the user acting as the presenter . The user may see on the user interface of the device the locations in the eBook of the participants such as the device being at the end of the eBook content .

In some implementations the presenter devices and the participant devices may operate in a peer to peer mode wherein the functions of the device management module are provided by one or more of the devices . For example where the devices of the presenters and the participants are of the same make model and configuration no translation from the presenter data to the participant setting data may be called for. In such an implementation the presenter data may be provided to the participant modules .

The device may include both the presenter module and the participant module . Furthermore the roles of presenter and participant may vary during operation such that the device acts as presenter participant or both at the same time.

Other data may also be passed between the devices . Audio video text messages and so forth may be exchanged between the devices to facilitate communication between the users . For example the participant devices may send messages to the presenter device and vice versa.

The application configuration may be actual states of the application modules executing on the presenter device or may be desired states which are to be implemented on the participant device but which otherwise do not affect operation of the presenter device . Likewise the device configuration may be actual states of the presenter device or may be desired states which are to be implemented on the participant device .

The application configuration provides information indicative of one or more states of the one or more application modules . In this illustration the application configuration includes an application identifier a state parameter and a state setting . The application identifier specifies an application module for which the state parameter and the state setting are provided. The state parameter defines a particular state which will be affected and the state setting for that particular state parameter . For example the application identified as Reader v.2 has the state parameter Content.Location set with a state setting indicating a position within the content of 10493 .

The device configuration provides information specifying one or more states of the presenter device . In this illustration the device configuration includes a device parameter and an associated device setting . The device parameter defines a particular state which will be affected and the device setting for that particular device parameter . For example the operating system may have a User.Task.Switching device parameter which specifies whether the user may switch between application modules . The device setting for this may be set to Disabled which presents the user from changing from one application module to another. In another example shown here the device parameter of Application.Install has a device setting of Hydraulic Simulator . When processed by the participant module of the participant device the application Hydraulic Simulator may be installed.

In some implementations the state setting the device setting and so forth may be expressed as a boundary range of values start point and end point and so forth. For example the state setting for the Content.Location state parameter may be 10293 10693 . This allows the participant users some flexibility to go back and forth within the content . Other state parameters may have different boundaries or flexibility in their constraints.

In some implementations the presenter data may be provided as key value pairs. For example a key may have a value which is associated with a particular application state setting device setting set of other key values and so forth.

The presenter device and the participant device may differ from one another. In some implementations the presenter device may comprise different hardware different operating systems different application modules and so forth from the participant devices . Furthermore the participant devices may differ from one another. For example the presenter may use a laptop device while the participant device may comprise a smartphone and the participant device may comprise a tablet computer.

The device management module is configured to convert or translate the presenter data into participant setting data which is configured to cause the participant device to modify the state of the participant devices . This conversion uses predetermined mappings between different applications state parameters device parameters and so forth.

For example as depicted here the presenter data includes application configuration and device configuration . The application configuration indicates that the Reader v.2 application ID has the state parameter of Content.Location with a state setting of 10493 . The device configuration has the device parameter of User.Task.Switching with a device setting of Disabled .

In the situation where the participant device differs from the presenter device the presenter data may convey no particular meaning to the presenter device . As a result the device management module generates the participant setting data which is configured to implement corresponding features on the participant device .

Continuing the example shown here the participant setting data includes application configuration and device configuration . The application configuration indicates that the Reader v.3 application ID has the state parameter of Book.Location with a state setting of 8854451 . The device configuration has the device parameter of App.Switch with a device setting of False . The participant setting data now configured for the particular participant device may be processed by the participant module to change the state of the participant device .

Mappings between the presenter data and the participant setting data may be manually entered determined automatically or both. For example in one implementation a system administrator may specify the correspondence between Content. Location with Book. Location .

The application state is indicative of the actual state of the application modules executing on the participant device . Likewise the device configuration is actual state of the participant device .

The application state provides information indicative of one or more states of the one or more application modules . The application modules may be executing suspended closed and so forth. In this illustration the application state includes an application identifier a parameter and data . The application identifier specifies an application module for which the parameter and the data are provided. The parameter designated a particular state and the data the value of the particular state. For example the application identified as Reader v.3 has the parameter Content.Location with data of 11354 . In this example this may indicate that the participant device is currently presenting the eBook content at location 11354 .

The device state provides information indicative of one or more states of the participant device . In this illustration the device state includes a device parameter and associated device data . The device parameter defines a particular device state and the device data the current value. For example the operating system may provide User.LoggedIn device parameter which specifies what user account is currently logged in indicating the current user . The device data may be which indicates user is logged into that participant device . In another example illustrated the device parameter Failure.Application.Install has device data of Hydraulic Simulator indicating that the installation of this application module has failed on the participant device .

The participant status data may be sent when data changes at predetermined intervals in response to polling and so forth. The participant status data may be sent to the device management module executing on the management server or the presenter device .

The device management module may receive the participant status data and provide information based on the participant status data to the presenter module . For example the participant module may receive information that the installation of the Hydraulic Simulator application module failed on the participant device but has succeeded on the other participant devices . An example user interface and the various status information which may be presented is discussed below with regard to .

In some implementations the participant status data may be provided as key value pairs extensible markup language XML JavaScript Object Notation JSON and so forth. For example a key value may be associated with a particular application state device state and so forth.

Before sending presenter data the user interface of the presenter device displays some text from an eBook using a reader application module and a map application module . The eBook is at a particular location within the content and the map is centered on a particular geographic location with a particular zoom level. The participant devices have not yet received the participant setting data based on the presenter data from the presenter device . As a result the device is presenting video content and the device is executing a messaging application module and a reader application module with an eBook open.

The presenter user may activate one or more controls on the device using the user interface or may have configured the presenter device to send presenter data to the device management module . For example as shown here the user has selected the send control which is configured to when activated send the presenter data . The presenter data is indicative of the particular location within the eBook and the map application settings. The device management module as described above generates participant setting data which is sent to the participant devices .

After sending the presenter data the state of the participant devices has been changed as illustrated here. The participant modules of the participant devices have processed the participant setting data and made changes to the state of the application modules device and so forth. As a result the participant devices are now displaying the particular eBook content and the map application as designated by the presenter device .

However the presentation of the content such as the eBook and the map by the participant devices need not be identical. As illustrated here the participant device is configured to present text at a larger size perhaps to aid a participant with vision difficulties. As also illustrated the participant device presents the eBook content at a slightly different location such as where the user is a fast reader who has moved ahead slightly. Furthermore the relative position of the map application module and the reader application module on the participant device may be arranged differently from the presenter device . For example the user using the device may be left handed and prefer a different arrangement.

As illustrated here one or more presenter devices may direct the interaction of users using participant devices . The directed interaction provides constraints determined by the presenter devices and which are implemented on the participant devices .

The participant device status display may also include an indicator showing position with eBook content or other content . For example the indicator may be depicted as a bar chart. In this illustration the indicators show that the device is presenting the content at about the first third of the content while the device is presenting the content at almost the end of the content .

Other controls may be presented within the user interface . A change management options control activates a user interface configured to present various options such as how frequently to send presenter data which management server to use and so forth.

A build presentation setting control activates a user interface configured to provide the user with presentation settings indicative of what and how to provide the directed interaction. The presentation settings may include what information to include or omit in the presenter data . For example the reader application module may be configured to be interrogated for generation of presenter data while the browser application module is not.

A set alarms control may be configured to set alerts or notifications to the presenter user based on the participant status data . For example the presenter user may use the build presentation setting control on the device to specify that content locations 11200 29911 in eBook content are recommended for the reading on Monday. However this may be a soft constraint in that this is presented on the participant devices D as a recommendation message rather than limiting access only to the content locations 11200 29911 or may default to the last location accessed within the content locations 11200 29911. The set alarms control may be used to send a notification to the presenter device when one of the participant devices D views content past the content location . Other alarms may be set to notify of failures or problems in the participant devices D such as presenting the problem indicator in the participant device status display .

An add remove participants control is also depicted. The control may be used to add or remove user accounts associated with the users devices or both to the participants . For example the user account associated with the user may be added to the participants such that when that user account is logged into a device the device is joined to the group of participants and will receive participant setting data from the device management module .

Additional controls displays and other user interface elements may be provided in other implementations. For example displays indicating battery charge of the participant devices D depicting physical location of the devices D and so forth may be presented.

In this illustration an expanded status display provides detailed information about a particular device . The name Charlie of the user who is logged into the device is shown as well as a graphical representation of Charlie s progress in the eBook content titled Starting Seattle . Additional information is presented such as Charlie has looked up the word hydraulic using the dictionary application. The device is also experiencing a problem in that the application Hydraulic Simulator is not installed properly. Additionally battery charge of the device is shown indicating the battery is low and a recharge is recommended.

The information provided in the expanded status display is based at least in part on the participant status data . Other information may also be incorporated into the display. For example the other information may include Charlie s grades to date in the class answers so far on a test currently being delivered using the device and so forth. The information provided in the expanded status display may be configured by the presenter user or by another party such as a system administrator.

The directed interaction may include communication amongst the one or more presenters the one or more participants or between the presenters and the participants . For example the presenter user may use the device to exchange text audio or video messages with the participant user . This communication may be mediated or facilitated using the device management module another module or by an external service or server.

In this illustration a messaging interface is provided to facilitate this interpersonal communication. As shown here the user is reminding the user Charlie to recharge his device and responds to a question Charlie had about the assignment.

The presenter data may be configured to enable disable or constrain messaging functions. For example communication between the presenter user and each of the individual participant users U may be permitted while communications between the participant users U is denied.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include input devices such as one or more of a camera a microphone a touch sensor a button and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. The display may comprise an electrophoretic display projector liquid crystal display interferometric display light emitting diode display and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the device or may be externally placed.

The device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications between the device other devices the management server routers access points servers and so forth. The communication interfaces may include devices configured to couple to one or more networks including PANs LANs WLANs WANs and so forth.

The device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the device .

As shown in the device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The CRSM may be any one or more of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium a mechanical computer storage medium and so forth. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the device .

The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . The OS module is configured to manage hardware resource devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors . Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks daemons and so forth.

A user interface module is configured to provide the user interface to the user using the I O devices and to accept inputs received from the I O devices . The user interface may include one or more visual audible or haptic elements. For example the user interface may be configured to provide a graphic user interface an audible user interface and so forth.

The communication module as described above is configured to support communication between the devices the management server and so forth using the network . The application modules may include one or more of eBook readers browsers calculators word processors spreadsheets slideshow presenters drawing programs and so forth.

The presenter module may be configured to acquire information about the state of the device the application modules executing on the device or both. The information may be acquired by accessing the state stored in the memory such as variable values registers and so forth. In some implementation where the application modules execute at least in part on another device a request for the state information may be made to the other device. Responses to the request may be returned to the device or to the device management module . The OS module may be configured to work in conjunction with the presenter module such that OS functions may be accessible to presenter module . For example state or other data from the OS may be provided to the presenter module for use in generating the presenter data .

Based on the information acquired the presenter data is generated. The presenter data may then be sent by the communication module to the management server the participant devices or both.

The participant module is configured to use the participant setting data to change one or more of the state of the application modules the device settings and so forth. For example the participant module on the device may receive participant setting data which sets the application state of the map application module to open a map at particular coordinates and in a particular zoom level. Using this participant setting data the participant module may change the state of the application executing at least in part on the device such that the map is presented at the particular location and zoom level. The OS module may be configured to work in conjunction with the participant module such that OS functions may be accessible to participant module . For example the participant module may be configured to affect one or more changes in the OS module of the device .

As also described above the participant module may be configured to generate participant status data . The generation may include acquiring information about the state of the device the one or more application modules executing on the device or both. The information may be acquired by accessing the state stored in the memory such as variable values registers and so forth. In some implementation where the application modules execute at least in part on another device a request for the state information may be made to the other device.

The participant status data comprises information indicative of the current state of one or more application modules the device and so forth. For example the participant status data may indicate that the device is currently presenting a particular location in the content the user is currently logged into that device and that sound output is muted.

Other modules may also be present. For example a digital rights management module may provide support for presenting or processing content protected using one or more digital rights management schemes.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other devices including servers network attached storage devices and so forth.

As depicted here the datastore may store one or more of the content the presenter data the participant setting data or participant status data . Other data may also be stored. For example the other data may include user preferences configuration files and so forth.

The management server may include one or more processors configured to execute one or more stored instructions. The processors may comprise one or more cores. The management server may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor or other portions of the management server to communicate with other devices. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include input devices such as one or more of a keyboard mouse and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the management server or may be externally placed.

The management server may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications between the management server the devices routers access points servers and so forth. The communication interfaces may include devices configured to couple to one or more networks including PANs LANs WLANs WANs and so forth.

The management server may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the management server .

As shown in the management server includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more CRSM. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the management server .

The memory may include at least one OS module . The OS module is configured to manage hardware resource devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors . Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks daemons and so forth.

A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may also provide data configured to provide the user interfaces on the devices such as hypertext markup language HTML files. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The communication module as described above is configured to support communication with the devices routers and so forth using the network . In some implementations the communication module may support encrypted communications. For example hypertext transport protocol secured HTTPS or transport layer security TLS may be supported.

The device management module is configured to accept the presenter data and generate participant setting data . The participant setting data is configured to cause the participant device to modify the state of one or more application modules executing on the participant device . In some implementations the presenter data and the participant setting data may be substantially the same such as where the presenter device and the participant device are the same make and model and have the same configuration. In these implementations the device management module may pass the presenter data along as the participant setting data without substantial modification. Alternatively the presenter device may send the presenter data to the participant device .

As described above with regard to the device management module may be configured to convert or translate the presenter data into participant setting data which is configured to cause the participant device to modify operation of the particular participant device .

Other modules may also be present. In one implementation a language translation module may be configured to provide translation of content messages or both enabling directed interaction of a group of users which use different languages. For example the text messages may be translated between German and English and vice versa.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other devices including servers network attached storage devices and so forth.

As depicted here the datastore may store one or more of the presenter data the participant setting data or participant status data . In some implementations content may be stored. Other data may also be stored. For example the other data may include user preferences configuration files user account information and so forth.

Block establishes communication with one or more presenter devices . For example the communication module of the management server may receive a request from the presenter device to initiate a directed interaction. In some implementations the communication may be encrypted.

Block establishes communication with one or more participant devices . Continuing the example the communication module of the management server may establish a connection with the participant devices D . In some implementations the communication may be encrypted.

Block receives data indicative of acceptance of presentation from the one or more participant devices . For example the participant devices may be configured to present a user interface asking the user for approval to engage in a directed interaction. This acceptance may also indicate approval to generate and provide the participant status data to one or more of the device management module or the one or more presenters .

Block determines device types of the one or more participant devices . For example the device management module may request data from the participant devices retrieve information from a datastore and so forth. The device type is indicative of one or more of hardware operating system or application installed on the participant device . For example the device type may indicate the particular make model and operating system of the participant devices .

Block receives presenter data from one or more presenter devices . For example the communication interface of the management server may receive the presenter data from the device as sent over the network . In some implementations the presenter data may have been previous received or stored in another location and the presenter data is accessed therefrom.

As described above the presenter data may include information about one or more application states of the presenter device one or more device states of the presenter device or both. The application state settings may include one or more of a reference to a piece of content such as a content identifier a location within a piece of content such as a page number or time index a uniform resource locator or a uniform resource identifier.

The device data may include one or more of a user permission state enabling the user to switch between two or more executing applications audio output settings power state of one or more components of the presenter device or a user input state enabling acceptance of user input from one or more user input devices .

Block selects a mapping between the presenter data and the participant setting data using the device type or another characteristic. For example the mapping may associate a device type of A having the state parameter of Content. Location with device type B having the state parameter of Book.Location .

Block generates based at least in part on the presenter data participant setting data . The participant setting data may be based at least in part on one or more characteristics of the participant device such that participant setting data is configured to be processed by the participant device . As described above the participant setting data is configured to when processed by the participant device cause the participant device to modify operation of the participant device . This modification may include one or more application states of the participant device one or more device states of the participant device or both. In some implementations the generating the participant setting data is further based on the mapping between the presenter data and the participant setting data .

The application state settings may include one or more of application focus application to execute portion of content to present user interface configuration and so forth. The device settings may include one or more of enabling or disabling specific hardware of the device setting a display mode on a display device setting an audio output level of an audio output device enabling or disabling task switching in an operating system and so forth.

In some implementations an association may be determined between the presenter data and the one or more participant devices . For example a list may be maintained which designates the participant devices are associated with the presenter data .

Block sends the participant setting data to one or more participant devices . For example the communication interface of the management server may send the participant setting data from the management server to the participant devices D over the network .

In some implementations the sending may be based on the previously specified association between the presenter data and the one or more participant devices . For example the participant devices may receive the presenter data while other devices such as which is not associated will not receive the presenter data .

Block receives participant status data from the one or more participant devices . For example the communication interface of the management server may receive the participant status data from the devices D as sent over the network . As described above the participant status data may comprise data indicative of one or more of an application state or a device state of the participant device .

Block sends the participant status data or information based on at least a portion of the participant status data to the one or more presenter devices . For example the participant status data may be aggregated or otherwise processed and the resulting data sent to the device .

Block at a presenter device establishes communication with the device management module of the management server . In other implementations the device management module may be executing on the presenter device or on another device.

Block determines application configuration data of one or more application modules of the presenter device . For example the application module Reader v.2 has the state parameter Content.Location set with a state setting indicating a position within the content of 10493 .

Block determines device configuration data provided by the presenter device . For example a User.Task.Switching device parameter may be specified with a device setting of Disabled . The device configuration data may reflect the actual state of the presenter device or may be specified by the presenter device but not affect the state of the presenter device . For example the user may set this parameter to disable the participants from switching between application modules on the devices D but may retain the ability to do so on his device .

Block generates presenter data based on the device configuration data the application configuration data or both. For example the presenter module may create the presenter data as key value pairs XML JSON and so forth.

Block sends the presenter data to the device management module . As described above the device management module may execute at least in part on the management server .

Block receives participant status data indicative of the state of one or more participant devices . The participant status data may be received from the various participant devices the device management module of the management server or both.

Block presents at least a portion of the participant status data . For example the data may be presented using user interfaces or to report the condition of the different participant devices .

Block establishes communication with the device management module of the management server . As described above in other implementations the device management module may execute on the device .

Block receives participant setting data . As described above the participant setting data may include one or more of application configuration data or device configuration data.

Block configures one or more of applications e.g. the application modules with at least a portion of the application configuration data such that the application state changes from a first application state to a second application state provided by the participant setting data . For example the application configuration data may specify a particular location for the map application module to present on the display. In another example the first state comprises a first uniform resource locator and the second state comprises a second uniform resource locator.

As described above the participant setting data may include one or more excursion boundaries within which the second state is modifiable based on user input. For example the participant user may be allowed to read between locations 12931 and 19994 in the eBook content . In another example the acceptance of user input may be constrained by the participant setting data .

The changes to the application state or to the device state described below may be temporary. In some implementations data indicative of the first state may be stored. After a predetermined period of time has elapsed since receiving the participant setting data upon reaching a predetermined clock time or another event the application module may be restored to the first state using the stored data indicative of the first state. For example the state changes of the user who is leading the directed interaction may expire after the conclusion of the regularly scheduled class time.

Block configures the participant device with at least a portion of the device configuration data such that the device state changes from a first device state to a second device state. For example the device configuration data may specify that user task switching between application modules is disallowed.

In some implementations the device state may include operating system state information. The operating system may have a first operating system state enabling switching of application focus between a plurality of executing application modules based on user input to the device . For example the user may be able to use the user interface to switch between different application modules .

The participant setting data may be configured to set the operating system to a second operating system state which disables switching of application focus between the plurality of executing applications based on user input to the device .

Block generates the participant status data as described above. Block sends the participant status data to the device management module of the management server . As described above in other implementations the device management module may execute at least in part on one or more of the management server or the device .

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations.

Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

