---

title: Performance testing apparatus for microclimate cooling unit
abstract: A testing apparatus measures cooling power of an electrically-powered Microclimate Cooling Unit (MCU) at the point of use of the MCU. The tester includes fluid supply and return ports for fluidly connecting to the MCU. A fluid heater provides a heat load to fluid in the tester. Fluid temperatures upstream and downstream of the heater are measured. The fluid flow rate is adjustable and measurable. A digital processor extracts the temperature and fluid flow rate data and computes cooling watts. The computed cooling watts are compared to the manufacturer's specifications to determine if the MCU is operating properly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09140504&OS=09140504&RS=09140504
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09140504
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130124
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 593 913 filed on Feb. 2 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates in general to cooling systems and in particular to apparatus and methods for evaluating the performance of cooling systems.

Cooling systems help prevent heat stress in humans exposed to extreme climates or work environments. A personal cooling system enables chilled fluid to circulate through tubing placed in garments worn by a person. In some personal cooling systems the tubing on the person is tethered or connected to heavier components for example heat exchangers that cool the fluid in the tubing. Thus the heavier components including power supplies and compressors are not carried by the person being cooled. Vehicle mounted personal cooling systems may be mounted in a vehicle such as an air or ground vehicle and connected to a person or persons in the vehicle via the fluid tubing. A Microclimate Cooling Unit MCU mounted in a vehicle may be used to chill fluid that provides cooling to a vehicle s crew via tubing in garments worn by the crew.

The performance of an MCU can degrade because of normal wear and tear physical damage or excessive use. A performance degraded MCU uses more power and cools less than an MCU that is operating at standard or normal efficiency. In some environments loss of cooling results causes only personal discomfort. However in very high temperature environments such as compartments of armored vehicles deployed in a desert and containing many heat producing electronic devices the loss of cooling in the compartment can result in severe heat sickness. Heat sickness adversely affects humans decision making abilities which are critical to survival when engaged with hostile parties or when operating an air or land vehicle.

There exists no simple way to accurately test the performance of an MCU at its point of use. MCUs may be as small as about 6 inches by 6 inches by 14 inches with little space in the interior to access any of the refrigeration components for testing purposes. Also the MCU housings are not easily opened at the point of use.

An MCU can be shipped from its point of use to another location such as the manufacturer s facility for testing with a laboratory testing system. The heat load used to test an MCU in a laboratory test system is generally a multi gallon capacity heated water reservoir. The manufacturer s testing system is accurate although it is not portable. The size and weight of the water reservoir and the power need to heat the water in the reservoir preclude ease of portability. So the MCU must be shipped from its point of use to the laboratory testing system. This process is expensive and time consuming because all MCUs whether performance degraded or not must be sent to the manufacturer for testing.

An onsite temperature differential test can be used to provide some indication of MCU performance. The temperature differential test includes measuring surface temperature at two locations on a bottom surface of the MCU using a hand held infrared temperature sensor. If the difference in temperature between the two locations is greater than 10 degrees F. then the MCU is considered to be performing adequately. While better than no test at all the temperature differential test does not provide a very accurate indication of the actual cooling performance of an MCU. No heat load is applied to the MCU using the temperature differential test. Thus properly performing MCUs may be misdiagnosed as performance degraded and shipped away for further testing and performance degraded MCUs may be misdiagnosed as properly performing and not shipped for further testing.

In the case of the U.S. Army over 7 000 MCUs have been deployed in Army aviation and ground vehicles. It is costly and time consuming to ship this large number of MCUs from their respective points of use to suitable locations for performance testing. A need exists for a more accurate performance testing apparatus that can be used at the point of use of an MCU.

One aspect of the invention is an apparatus for measuring cooling power of an electrically powered Microclimate Cooling Unit MCU at a point of use of the MCU. The apparatus includes a fluid supply port connected to a fluid conduit and a flow rate controller disposed in the fluid conduit. The flow rate controller includes an analog flow meter. A fluid heater heats fluid in the fluid conduit downstream of the fluid supply port. A first thermocouple measures supply fluid temperature in the fluid conduit downstream of the fluid supply port and upstream of the fluid heater. A digital flow meter is disposed in the fluid conduit. A fluid return port is connected to the fluid conduit downstream of the fluid heater. A second thermocouple measures return fluid temperature in the fluid conduit downstream of the fluid heater and upstream of the fluid return port.

A power supply is connected to the fluid heater via a relay. At least one cooling fan is connected to the power supply. A housing contains the fluid conduit the flow rate controller the first and second thermocouples the fluid heater the relay the digital flow meter the power supply and the at least one cooling fan. The housing includes an exterior. The exterior has mounted thereon a visual displays of the supply temperature measured by the first thermocouple the return temperature measured by the second thermocouple and flow rates measured by the digital flow meter b a return temperature controller that is connected to the relay c the flow rate controller and analog flow meter d the fluid supply port and the fluid return port e power switches for the fluid heater the apparatus for measuring cooling power and the MCU f a power supply connection for the MCU g a control cable connection for the MCU and h a controller for the MCU.

A computer extracts the temperatures measured by the first and the second thermocouples and the flow rates measured by the digital flow meter and computes cooling power in real time. In one embodiment the computer is disposed inside the housing and the apparatus includes a visual display of the cooling power located on the exterior of the housing.

In another embodiment the computer is disposed external to the housing and the apparatus includes a data acquisition hub on the exterior of the housing. The data acquisition hub and the computer may be connected by a cable. The computer extracts real time values of the temperatures measured by the first and second thermocouples and flow rates measured by the digital flow meter.

Another aspect of the invention is a method that includes providing an apparatus for measuring cooling power of an electrically powered Microclimate Cooling Unit MCU . The MCU is mounted in a vehicle and the point of use of the MCU is in the vehicle. The method includes measuring cooling power of the MCU at the MCU point of use.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

MCU is typically mounted in a vehicle such as an air or ground vehicle. is a schematic drawing of a ground vehicle with an MCU mounted therein. is a schematic drawing of an air vehicle with an MCU mounted therein. Tester is used to determine the cooling power of MCU . For testing purposes tester is connected to MCU via a fluid supply connection a fluid return connection an electrical power cable and a control cable . Importantly tester is able to test MCU at the point of use of the MCU .

Fluid cooled by MCU is supplied to tester via fluid supply connection . Fluid heated by tester is returned to MCU via fluid return connection . Fluid connections and may be for example insulated hoses. A fluid reservoir not shown with a capacity on the order of a pint may be interposed between MCU and tester in either the fluid supply connection or the fluid return connection as a means to purge air from the fluid system. The method of using such a reservoir to purge air is known. Tester supplies power to MCU via power cable . Tester controls the cooling output of MCU via control cable .

A housing contains fluid conduit flow rate controller thermocouples and fluid heater digital flow meter power supply and cooling fan . Preferably two fans may be used an intake fan and an exhaust fan. Housing may be made of a metal and may include a removable lid for easy access to the interior of housing . Housing includes an exterior . Exterior may include front and side panels. For ease of use exterior includes fluid and electrical connections for connecting tester to MCU . A variety of visual displays and controls are also located on exterior . Preferably the connections visual displays and controls are located on a front panel of exterior .

Referring to exterior has mounted thereon a visual display of the supply temperature measured by thermocouple a visual display of the return temperature measured by thermocouple a visual display for analog flow meter and a visual display for digital flow meter . Fluid supply port and fluid return port are mounted on exterior . Controls on exterior include flow rate controller a power switch for fluid heater a power switch for tester a power switch for MCU and a controller for controlling the cooling output of MCU . Electrical connections on exterior include a control cable connection for connecting control cable to MCU and a power supply connection for connecting power cable to MCU . A data output port on exterior enables temperature and flow data to be extracted from tester . Visual displays and may be for example liquid crystal displays.

Supply fluid connection such as a hose is connected between fluid supply port on tester and a fluid supply port on MCU . Return fluid connection such as a hose is connected between fluid return port on tester and a return port on MCU . Control cable such as a wiring harness is connected between control cable connector on tester and a control connector on MCU . Control signals from controller on tester are sent via control cable to MCU to vary the cooling output of MCU . Electric power cable such as a wiring harness is connected between power supply connector on tester and a power connector on MCU . Connector is also connected to power supply . Tester supplies power to MCU during performance testing of MCU .

Flow rate controller may include a knob to adjust the flow in fluid conduit . Some performance testing may require a specific flow rate in conduit . The flow rate may be viewed on analog flow meter display . Controller for example a knob controls the cooling output of MCU via control cable . Data output port such as a USB connection or USB data acquisition hub enables digital output of real time values of the temperatures measured by thermocouples and and the flow rate measured by digital flow meter .

In one embodiment a portable computer for example a notebook or laptop computer may be connected via cable to data output port to extract and record the temperature and flow rate values. Computer may calculate the cooling power of MCU using known algorithms. The known algorithms calculate cooling power watts from the temperatures measured by thermocouples and and the flow rate measured by digital flow meter . The calculated cooling power is then compared to the manufacturer s specifications to determine if the MCU is cooling properly.

In another embodiment tester may include an internal computer such as a microprocessor disposed inside of housing . Microprocessor may extract and record the temperature and flow rate values perform the cooling power calculations and display the calculated cooling watts visually on a display on exterior . Microprocessor may include memory to store the temperature flow rate and cooling watts data. Data output port may be used to access the information in the memory. Computer may not be needed if microprocessor is used.

To test the cooling performance of MCU power supply of tester is connected to an external power supply for example a 115 volt AC power outlet. Fluid return port of tester is connected via return connection hose to return port on MCU . Supply connection hose is connected to supply port on MCU and to fluid supply port on tester . Preferably a small fluid reservoir not shown is interposed in a known manner in return or supply fluid connection or to allow air to escape from the fluid system.

Control cable or harness is connected to control connection on tester and to control connection on MCU . Power cable is connected between power connection on tester and power connection on MCU . Computer if used is connected to data output port . Main power switch is moved to the on position and then MCU power switch is moved to the on position. MCU controller is moved to the maximum cooling position. The fluid in fluid conduit is cooled by MCU until the supply temperature measured by thermocouple is the same as the return temperature measured by thermocouple . This may take about 30 seconds.

Next power to heater is enabled using power switch . Incorporated with or separate from return temperature display is a return temperature control for setting a desired return temperature at thermocouple . Control is connected to a relay that is connected to power supply . Relay enables power to heater as needed. Use of relay enables the use of a smaller and less massive power supply . Power to heater may be for example 110 volt AC power. The fluid temperature in fluid conduit will increase until the return temperature at thermocouple is the temperature set by temperature control . In some embodiments the set temperature is about 80 degrees F.

Once the supply temperature at thermocouple is stable the temperatures at thermocouples and and the flow rate at digital flow meter may be used to calculate the cooling power of MCU . The cooling power of MCU may be calculated by external computer or internal microprocessor . The calculated cooling power is then compared to the manufacturer s specifications to determine if the MTU should be shipped from the point of use for repair or replacement.

Preferably tester weighs less than fifty pounds. More preferably tester weighs no more than thirty one pounds. As defined by the U.S. Dept. of Defense a man portable device weighs no more than thirty one pounds. The man portable embodiment uses microprocessor disposed in the interior of housing .

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

