---

title: Risk analysis engine
abstract: In a risk analysis system, a risk analysis engine and a related method, incident information or activity information, which may be of a spatiotemporal nature, is analyzed. Behavioral patterns are identified in or derived from the incident information or the activity information. Observations are produced from matches of the behavioral patterns to behavior specifications. Based upon the observations, and asset vulnerability data, per-asset risks are derived.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652813&OS=09652813&RS=09652813
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 09652813
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130222
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 680 778 filed Aug. 8 2012 the content of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under contract number N00024 03 D 6606 awarded by the Naval Sea Systems Command. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Large amounts of information about threats incidents activities risks and other concerns are collected stored and analyzed by safety security and intelligence agencies including police military and homeland security. There is a known database that identifies key resources and critical infrastructures as assets to be protected. Traditional human based monitoring methods have been augmented by data mining artificial intelligence statistical analysis and other computer driven techniques which have been applied and continue to be developed in an ongoing effort to protect and ensure the safety and survival of the citizens and both public and private assets. The sheer volume of data and the changing nature of threats make this a daunting task which can easily overwhelm individuals and localized systems. Therefore there is a need in the art for an integrated flexible solution which overcomes the drawbacks described above.

A risk analysis system a risk analysis engine and a related method are herein described. Arriving incident information or activity information which may pertain to risks to assets such as people and critical infrastructure is analyzed so that per asset risks can be determined.

In one embodiment a method for risk analysis is disclosed. Incident information or activity information is analyzed. Behavioral patterns are identified from analyzing the incident information or the activity information. Observations are produced from matches of the behavioral patterns to behavior specifications which may be in a behavioral knowledge base. Per asset risks are derived based upon the observations and asset vulnerability data. At least one of the method operations is executed through a processor.

In one embodiment a computing device with a risk analysis engine is disclosed. The computing device includes a behavior discovery and suggestion subsystem a predictive subsystem a behavior management subsystem and a threat evaluation subsystem. Each of the subsystems includes computer executable instructions stored in memory of the computing device. The behavior discovery and suggestion subsystem is configured to recognize behavioral patterns based upon analysis of incident information or activity information. The incident information or the activity information is of a spatiotemporal nature. The predictive subsystem is configured to estimate a next occurrence or a probable activity. Estimating the next occurrence or the probable activity is based upon the behavioral patterns. The behavior management subsystem is configured to produce observations. The observations are from behavior specifications to which any of the behavioral patterns estimated next occurrences or estimated probable activities conform. The threat evaluation subsystem is configured to assess per asset risks on a spatiotemporal basis. Assessing the per asset risks is based upon correlations between asset vulnerability data and the observations.

In one embodiment a risk analysis system is disclosed. The system includes a gateway a storage device and a processor. The gateway is configured to route incident information or activity information. The gateway is further configured to respond to queries requesting or regarding the incident or activity information. The storage device is configured to store asset vulnerability data. The processor is configured to communicate with the gateway and the storage device. The processor receives the asset vulnerability data from the storage device. The processor receives the incident information or the activity information through the gateway. The processor analyzes the incident information or the activity information. Behavioral patterns are derived from analysis of the incident information or the activity information. Observations are produced from behavior specifications and the behavioral patterns by the processor. Per asset risks are derived by the processor based upon the asset vulnerability data and application of the observations as threat evidence.

Other aspects and advantages of the embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.

A risk analysis system shown in a risk analysis engine shown in and flow diagrams directed to methods relating thereto are presently described. The risk analysis engine sits between live incoming event data and representations of assets such as buildings people and critical infrastructure in the risk analysis system and analyzes potential threats and risks to the assets. The system can issue reports and alerts which may be acted upon by law enforcement military security or other personnel in order to protect the assets. Observations and factors leading to the observations can be tracked for use by law enforcement and prosecution. Assets can be affected by special events such as parades or appearances by politicians celebrities or other well known people. Assets affected by special events can be assigned a heightened risk for analysis purposes. The system can apply risk propagation threat propagation risk decay and or various analytical techniques. A goal of the risk analysis system is to automate processing of incident information or activity information to analyze risk to assets represented in asset vulnerability data.

Detailed illustrative embodiments are disclosed herein. However specific functional details disclosed herein are merely representative for purposes of describing embodiments. Embodiments may however be embodied in many alternate forms and should not be construed as limited to only the embodiments set forth herein.

It should be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various steps or calculations these steps or calculations should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one step or calculation from another. For example a first calculation could be termed a second calculation and similarly a second step could be termed a first step without departing from the scope of this disclosure. As used herein the term and or and the symbol includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. Therefore the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions acts noted may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two figures shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

The gateway can be implemented using one or more networks a network portal an Internet portal one or more servers or combinations thereof and connections to various sources of information etc. The sources of information which provide incident information or activity information can be thought of as disparate threat data sources. The sources may be located in various places have differing standards formats or types of information and have differing types of or permissions for access. The gateway can route the incident information or activity information and may respond to queries requesting or regarding the incident information or the activity information e.g. by handling the queries or by routing the queries to appropriate sources and routing the responses from the sources to the risk analysis engine . The gateway can act as a translation layer and even in some versions act as a filter preserving confidential or personal information i.e. preserving or providing privacy while providing identifiers and or metadata for traceability. For example when responding to a query the gateway could provide an answer that says yes this does exist it happened at this location and at this time or over this time span but providing minimal other information. If a trace is later initiated using an identifier the gateway could then provide further information based upon permission and other requirements e.g. a search warrant.

The asset representation system stores updates and otherwise maintains representations of assets in an asset representation database . This could be implemented on a server or with a processor and a data storage device. Actual assets might include buildings people roadways manufacturing plants bodies of water water treatment plants electricity generating plants and substations campuses shopping malls refineries forests and so on. However assets are not limited to physical assets. The system can work for any concept of an asset as long as a notion of vulnerability to that asset can be created. One example of a non physical asset would be a software system which could be affected by a cyber attack. Assets can belong to groups in a hierarchy taxonomy and aggregate risk scores can be computed for these groups of Assets. A Sector of assets is an example of a group of assets that can have an aggregate score computed. The Sector taxonomy is also used in the process of determining asset relationships. Assets are represented using data in the asset representation database . The asset representation database includes data about vulnerability of the assets such as to what kind of threat an asset is vulnerable how an asset could be attacked destroyed crippled subverted or otherwise compromised how likely this is to occur under what circumstances and what the consequences i.e. effects and repercussions of this would be such as affected area economic loss and or loss of human life. Relationships among assets are also included in the asset representation database . Possible relationships include functional e.g. multiple water treatment plants or a water treatment plant and a reservoir dependency e.g. gasoline service stations and oil refineries or a manufacturing plant and a parts or materials supplier direct vulnerability sector and or co located i.e. physically located nearby . Representations of the assets may include or be associated with numeric scores parameters equations rules etc. One way to populate the asset representation database with vulnerability data is for analysts to perform site assessments and enter data relating to the assets relationships among the assets consequences etc. and how to score all of these. Asset vulnerability data is searchable and can be accessed by the asset representation system . The risk analysis engine can access the asset vulnerability data stored in the asset representation database for example via the asset representation system . In a variation the risk analysis engine could include the asset representation database .

Arriving incident information or activity information is processed by the risk analysis engine which generates updates and maintains a behavioral knowledge base based on or from the incident information or activity information. The behavioral knowledge base is stored in the behavioral database which can be accessed by the risk analysis engine . This will be further discussed regarding .

The risk analysis engine processes information in the behavioral knowledge base and produces observations. These observations may include observations of patterns and anomalies. The observations may be considered actionable information and may include risk scores for assets identifiers for traceability and other data and or metadata. The risk analysis engine then analyzes the observations relative to the asset vulnerability data. In other words the risk analysis engine looks for whether and how the observations affect or might affect assets and what the threats and risks to the assets might be. From the observations and the asset vulnerability data the risk analysis engine derives per asset risks i.e. derives what the risk is or might be on a per asset basis. The risk analysis engine can then issue reports or alerts based on this analysis. The reports and or alerts are also actionable information and may include observations of various behaviors as related to various threats.

The behavior discovery subsystem performs automated discovery and suggestion of novel behavioral patterns as found in the incident information or activity information. Various algorithms monitor and evaluate threat data from data sources on a continual basis and may operate as background tasks. These algorithms look for behaviors and anomalies in the behaviors and they produce observations. This can include observations of unique and or related activities. In one version discovered behaviors are suggested to a user who then provides human feedback thus supporting analyst in the loop feedback. Examples of human feedback include having an analyst initiate queries via a terminal or a computer coupled to the risk analysis engine to request information about various topics such as types of activities or activity at a particular location in a search for a pattern of activity. These queries can be handled through the gateway shown in .

Continuing with the predictive subsystem leverages discovered and user supplied behavioral patterns. Temporal patterns can be analyzed e.g. for periodicity to provide an estimate of a next occurrence which may be useful in intervention. Sequential patterns can provide guidance on probable activity which may be useful in intervention. In one version partial sequences are analyzed by the predictive subsystem which offers a completion estimate of a behavioral indicator i.e. an extrapolation of the data to a next time point and location which would complete a partial sequence pattern. For example if there is a four step sequence specified as a type of behavior to watch for and there is an observation of a first step and a second step that the system recognizes as a match for part of the four step sequence a report or an alert could be issued in time to intervene and prevent a third step or a fourth step from taking place.

The behavior management subsystem constructs the behavioral knowledge base which resides in the behavioral database . The behavior management subsystem does this by forming behavior specifications which provide templates for proposed matches from the incident information or activity information. Each behavior specification pertains to an incident an activity a pattern of incidents a pattern of activities or other combination of data as relates to a behavior such as a threat behavior or a threat precursor behavior. The behavioral knowledge base may be constructed with user input or feedback. A user may indicate behavior specifications which are used to produce observations. As a specific example an analyst may enter behavior specifications of what specific threats look like from which the system then constructs observations based upon the incident information or activity information that matches the behavior specifications. Observations indicate when a specified behavior from the behavior specifications is observed in the incident information or activity information. Observations are produced from behavioral patterns estimated next occurrences or estimated probable activities that match fit correlate with or otherwise conform to behavior specifications. The behavioral knowledge base may include precursor behaviors indicator behaviors asset specific rules or activity sequences. Behavior queries may be applied to facilitate manual exploration of data sources. More will be explained with regard to observations in the discussions with reference to .

The threat evaluation subsystem employs the observations as threat evidence takes the vulnerability data relating to an asset to which the threat evidence applies then computes calculates derives or otherwise assesses the per asset risks. It does this by looking through the asset representation database particularly the asset vulnerability data stored therein and finding vulnerabilities consequences and relationships. The observations are analyzed as contributing risk to affected assets which are represented in the asset representation database . In some versions these risks or threats are propagated to other related assets as will be further discussed. Contributing observations and events can be stored by the system for traceability and prosecution purposes.

Here are some examples of how the observations can be formed by the behavior discovery subsystem the predictive subsystem and or the behavior management subsystem . Association rules can be applied to the incident information or activity information to recognize when one type of event and one type of situation or other event are associated with a likely outcome. An example of this is that when one type of bomb component is stolen and another type of bomb component is purchased at some other location and these events are within a small window of time it is possible that someone is going to assemble a bomb. Another example of this is that when a gun store is robbed and a large number of guns are stolen someone is possibly planning a crime that will use a large number of guns or the illegal market will soon be flooded with a large number of stolen guns. A decay factor may be applied so that the further apart these events or situations are in distance or in time the lower the likelihood of the possible outcome. This analysis can be done with or without fuzzy logic and fuzzy association rules.

Pattern trees can be applied to analyze possibly connected events or incidents. Temporal pattern analysis can be applied to discover patterns happening over a period of time which may be likely to recur or lead to a seminal event. Temporal spikes in a pattern can indicate a behavior. Periodic patterns can be transformed e.g. with Fourier transforms or scaling so that periodicities can be analyzed. Anomalies in patterns can be spotted using various techniques. Subsequences can be spotted in longer sequences. Sequence discovery algorithms can be applied with or without graphical representation. Examples of patterns would be a series of bank robberies or burglaries at regular time intervals or over a span of geographic locations. From such a pattern a next occurrence of a bank robbery or burglary can be suggested as an observation. A town that has not had a bank robbery but is in the vicinity of other towns that have had recent bank robberies could be indicated by pattern recognition. A sequence of bank robberies once per month or once per week can be analyzed to form the observation that a bank robbery might occur next month or next week. Another example of a pattern to be analyzed would be an incident of a vehicle turning around at an entrance to a secure facility. If it happens once that s interesting. If it happens twice and it s the same vehicle that s more interesting. If it happens several times that s even more interesting. The frequency of occurrence i.e. how often this happens can be a factor in calculating the risk score. A risk parameter would be adjusted accordingly and the risk factor would decay as more time passes if the event is not repeated or if related events of interest are not observed as occurring.

From the observations and from the asset vulnerability data the per asset risks are derived. One way to do this is to correlate the observations with the asset vulnerability data i.e. determine which assets are or might be affected by which observations how the assets might be affected and how likely this is to occur. All of this can be applied to calculate a risk score for a specified asset based upon the observations the asset vulnerability data and various factors as individually applicable to a particular situation or set of circumstances at a given moment of time. This is what the various factor boxes represent and how they are applied by the risk analysis engine .

Following is an example in which an observation is correlated with the asset vulnerability data which will illuminate the analysis process and the factors involved. It is understood that the term factors is used to mean contributors to a situation or a result in this case an assessment of risk and that differing factors may be applied and in differing orders than in this example.

The observation based on the incident information or activity information is of a spatiotemporal nature and includes information answering questions of what when and where as shown in the factor box . For example spatiotemporal data can include one or more timestamps latitude and longitude or other parameters indicating when an incident or activity occurred and where it occurred. Severity risk decay as shown in a factor box can be applied to decrease a risk score as a function of time if applicable. For example the risk of a terrorist attack could be very high leading up to the anniversary of September 11th and be lower in the days and weeks after the anniversary. Contributions to risk for the correlated asset as shown in a factor box are analyzed. Relationship weights as shown in a factor box are applied to the calculation of risk to the correlated asset. In other words if the observation has a large relationship weight the risk is increased and so on.

Affected assets as shown in a factor box are analyzed to determine if this is the only asset affected by the observation or if others might be affected. Selecting the affected assets includes determining if an asset is a target or a potential target based upon the observed behavior i.e. the observation and what type of behavior it was and where it occurred. A distance filter as shown in a factor box is applied e.g. to the risk calculation. Critical infrastructure that is nearby could be affected by an observation. For example the further away an asset is from a specified observation the lower the risk. This is not always so and factors affecting the distance filter may be adjustable on a per asset basis as is generally true of factors affecting risk. Other assets that are the same type of asset could be affected by an observation even if not located geographically nearby. An example of this would be water treatment plants where if one water treatment plant is being targeted another might be and is considered an affected asset. A vulnerability filter as shown in a factor box is applied. For example a hardened target may not be very vulnerable to small arms fire but a soft target may be much more vulnerable.

A primary risk is determined as shown in a factor box . The primary risk may be a calculation associated with the asset determined to be most affected or most likely to be affected by an observation. A threat component a vulnerability component and a consequence component TVC factors can be applied as shown in a factor box . Here a risk score is produced which may be normalized by applying various factors in an equation that calculates the risk to the asset as associated with each factor. For example this can be a primary risk score as applied to the primary risk. The threat component is a threat scoring mechanism for a specified asset and can apply severity strength and prominence as factors. The vulnerability component is a vulnerability scoring mechanism for a specified asset and can apply importance level component scores mission based scores history based scores critical node scores hazardous material scores historical threat scores response time and asset relationships and other calculations as factors. The consequence component is a consequence scoring mechanism for a specified asset and can apply importance level component scores asset relationships average quantity of hazardous materials scores consequence significance scores consequence of loss of operations scores consequence of replacement cost consequence of economic impact and consequence of population impact as factors. There can be flexibility regarding how the system computes TVC factors and Risk overall. The analyst can specify weights and functions potentially custom that would be used to drive the Risk computing propagation etc. process. The analyst driven weights may be called Custom Risk Profiles which dictate how Threat Vulnerability and Consequence Risk components are computed and weighted resulting in a configurable Risk strategy . The customizable equation to combine Threat Vulnerability and Consequence Risk components supports a Pluggable Risk Model.

Contributing observations as shown in a factor box can be determined and tracked with ID identifier tracking as shown in a factor box . One way this can be done is by assigning respective identifiers to each chunk of incident information to each chunk of activity information to each observation to each asset represented in the asset vulnerability data to each behavioral specification in the behavioral knowledge base and to each of the per asset risks including the primary risks. Then identifiers associated with each observation that contributes to a risk each asset associated with the risk and each behavioral specification that contributes to the risk can be stored under a combined identifier associated with the per asset risks for each risk. In this manner the observations and the incident information or activity information are traceable. A trace can be applied early and appropriate queries initiated to provide information useful in preventing an undesirable event such as a crime or an attack. A trace can be applied later e.g. for follow up investigation or prosecution if a subsequent event is successfully prevented or if unfortunately a subsequent event occurs. Traceability may thus be useful in law enforcement security or military efforts before or after such an occurrence. Identifiers can also be used to separate observations from various pieces or types of information. Using identifiers instead of actual records both supports further investigation as discussed here as well as protects sensitive information for example during discovery in a lawsuit .

Secondary risk propagation as shown in a factor box may be applied. Risk propagation spreads risk throughout a network i.e. risk from a specific asset that may be targeted is propagated among assets that are in some way related or connected. Here assets that are in some manner linked with or associated with a primary risk are identified as by applying the affected assets factor from the factor box . Links as shown in a factor box are explored so that the effects of a threat on a primary risk can be propagated to the secondary risk based on relationships among the assets as shown in the asset vulnerability data. As an example an attack on a water treatment plant as a primary risk would be propagated downstream to the populace that receives water from the water treatment plant as the secondary risk and or propagated to other water treatment plants as secondary risks each of which would receive a secondary risk score. Secondary risk propagation can be performed over multiple levels and depths e.g. to various asset relationship links as well as number of relationships away one asset is to another. For instance the number of relationships away one asset is from another is used to determine a weighted contribution of primary risk that a related asset receives via risk propagation. The links can be direct for example when one asset is receiving directly from another asset or links can show beneficiary relationships for example when an asset is receiving a benefit from another asset but could receive a similar benefit from elsewhere.

Special events as shown in a factor box can be identified on a calendar basis or through news or other sources. Examples of special events include the aforementioned parades and personal appearances also voting holidays anniversaries of tragedies or other significant events protest or demonstration gatherings and so on. The spatial influence as shown in a factor box of the special event is determined. For example the parade route is mapped out. The temporal influence as shown in a factor box of the special event is determined. For example the gathering time begin time and end time and dispersal time of the parade are looked up or estimated. Temporal decay as shown in a factor box can be applied. Temporal decay represents a memory factor of the system and is employed to model how long the system remembers a situation. For example a crowd begins gathering before a parade reaches peak attendance during the parade and takes a while to disperse after the parade. As another example there may be violent protest for a time after a politician speech or a concern about terrorist attack for a time span after a video is shown on the Internet. Risk is adjusted e.g. on a daily basis or to some other timetable to account for temporal decay of the risk based on these factors.

From the per asset risks reports or alerts can be generated. For example a report could indicate a situation is developing or a pattern is being monitored. Reports can be general as in showing the risk landscape or specific to one or a number of the per asset risks. An alert could indicate there is a high probability of an imminent event. Per asset risks can also be displayed on a dashboard like user interface e.g. as graphical information superimposed on a map shown on a monitor attached to a computer. Such a dashboard like user interface could also be interactive allowing initiation of queries or traces by clicking on a dot or other emblem or symbol indicating an incident activity or asset.

In one operation a query is sent. Incident information or activity information is received in an operation . The incident information or the activity information is analyzed in operation for example by applying fuzzy logic or association rules or by determining a pattern a pattern tree a temporal spike a periodic temporal pattern or an anomaly in a temporal pattern. In operation behavioral patterns are identified. The behavioral patterns are identified from analyzing the incident information or the activity information. The behavioral patterns may include time information and physical location information from the incident information or the activity information. Observations are produced in operation e.g. from matches of the behavioral patterns to behavior specifications in the behavioral knowledge base.

In operation the observations and asset vulnerability data are correlated. Risk scores for the assets are calculated in operation for each of the assets represented in the asset vulnerability data. In one version the risk score is based upon a threat component a vulnerability component and a consequence component. Risk normalization can be applied here. Assets can have various amounts of detail populated in the vulnerability consequence database. Risk normalization as a procedure treats all of the assets on the same risk scale computing a risk score from only vulnerability consequence components for an asset that can be directly compared to other assets. The Risk normalization strategies also handle missing vulnerability and consequence data gracefully.

In operation a heightened risk score is applied to a special event. More specifically a heightened risk score is applied to assets affected by influenced by or related to a special event i.e. in the influence zone and or with one or more relationships to some aspect of the special event. The special event is represented in the asset vulnerability data which may include a time influence and or a distance influence of the special event. For example a special event such as a parade results in the roadway upon which the parade route proceeds receiving a risk score that is greater than when the parade is not present and attending participants and spectators receiving a greater risk score than when the parade is not present.

In operation a risk score is decreased as a function of time. This would be an application of temporal risk decay. Risk decay can be applied with respect to special event modifiers. In the general case contributed risk from each observation decays in the absence of new information at behavior specification specific rates. Vulnerability risk is propagated in operation . This can be performed by examining links among assets i.e. looking for relationships among assets.

Per asset risks are derived in operation based on observations and the asset vulnerability data. Deriving the per asset risks may be based upon correlation of the observations in the asset vulnerability data. Here a per asset risk confidence measure can be computed based on the amount of vulnerability and consequence data present for an asset.

Threats are propagated to related assets in an operation for example based on the relationships among the assets. Contributing observations for the per asset risks are tracked in an operation . The observations may be tracked under an identifier. In an operation an alert is sent based on the per asset risks.

In a method for risk analysis is presented. The method may be practiced on a computing device that implements a risk analysis engine. Each of the subsystems of the computing device includes computer executable instructions stored in memory of the computing device.

In an operation incident information or activity information is analyzed. Behavioral patterns are recognized in an operation based upon analysis of the incident information or activity information. The incident information or the activity information is of a spatiotemporal nature. Human feedback is applied in an operation for example by an analyst who is kept in the loop.

An estimate is made of a next occurrence or a probable activity in an operation based upon the behavioral patterns. A completion estimate of behavioral indicators is offered in an operation for example when an incomplete behavioral pattern is observed. The completion estimate of behavioral indicators may be based upon partial sequence matches in the behavioral patterns and represent an estimate of when and how the behavioral pattern would be completed. Observations are produced in an operation . The observations are produced from behavior specifications that are based upon the behavioral patterns estimated next occurrences or estimated probable activities. The behavior specifications may be based on precursor behaviors indicator behaviors asset specific rules and or activity sequences. Asset vulnerability data in the observations are correlated in operation . Per asset risks are assessed in an operation based upon the correlations between the asset vulnerability data in the observations. Contributing observations are stored in an operation . In a variation the observations the incident information or the activity information that contribute to the per asset risks are stored with an identifier.

In an operation asset vulnerability data is received from the storage device. Incident information or activity information is received through the gateway in an operation . The incident information or the activity information is analyzed in operation . In operation behavioral patterns are derived from analysis of the incident information or the activity information. Observations are produced in operation from behavior specifications and the behavioral patterns. Identifiers are stored in operation such that causes to a subsequent event are traceable. The identifiers are associated with the incident information or activity information the behavioral knowledge base the observations and the per asset risks.

A risk score is lowered over time in an operation . This is an example of risk decay. The risk score is applied to one of the per asset risks. The per asset risks are derived in an operation based upon the asset vulnerability data and application of the observations as threat evidence. Risk is propagated to related assets in the asset vulnerability data in an operation . Threats are propagated from the per asset risks to the related assets in an operation . These are examples of risk propagation and threat propagation respectively.

Embodiments of the risk analysis system and the risk analysis engine can be flexibly operated in that an analyst or other user can write and enter behavior specifications tailored to circumstances interests or preferences. The analyst or user can initiate queries to bring in update or otherwise add to information about assets incidents and activities.

The role of queries and querying in the architecture is from the perspective of searching for instances of particular behavior specifications. Some examples follow. Analysts may describe behaviors that they are interested in monitoring and their assessments about how severe the behaviors are and to what threats they may contribute. Those behavior specifications get internally translated to queries across the various data sets. The data sources are queried for matches i.e. observations of the behaviors and observation instances are returned that contain a reduced set of information such as a data source and record combined ID a location of matching instance s and the time they occurred. The risk analysis engine captures produces sends receives stores and processes the queries and associated results from the set of available data sources. The analysts specify the bulk of the detail based on what they care about as the initiation mechanism but after that specification the risk analysis engine saves and continually monitors for those behaviors in the data. When behaviors are observed in the data primary and secondary i.e. propagated risk is computed and assigned to affected assets. The process repeats itself The analyst also has the capability to enter one time exploratory queries that can then be used to obtain additional information or generate quick action reports. Content of the queries depends on the data source being queried but in general contains a description of a behavior in terms of field values or categories of field values in the data source s . The gateway is the piping that allows the risk analysis engine to ask these questions of the data and get aggregated responses back for computing and assigning risk.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the embodiments might employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing. Any of the operations described herein that form part of the embodiments are useful machine operations. The embodiments also relate to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purpose or the apparatus can be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines can be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The embodiments can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. Embodiments described herein may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices tablets microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

Although the method operations were described in a specific order it should be understood that other operations may be performed in between described operations described operations may be adjusted so that they occur at slightly different times or the described operations may be distributed in a system which allows the occurrence of the processing operations at various intervals associated with the processing.

The foregoing description for the purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the embodiments and various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

