---

title: Method for maintaining common data across multiple platforms
abstract: Systems and methods are described for maintaining a user's common data across multiple platforms. The common data is information about the user and graphical and design elements of publications that should be consistently presented across online, other electronic, and non-electronic platforms, such as websites, social networking profiles, electronic and printed business listings, email and print newsletters, business cards, letterhead, and the like. The common data may be stored and updated by a centralized or distributed system including one or more servers communicating with the platforms and with a content database that retains the common data in a stored data structure. The system may provide an interface to the user, receive common data elements input by the user, add the common data elements to the stored data structure, and distribute the common data elements to the platforms. The system may identify which platforms require which elements of the common data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576065&OS=09576065&RS=09576065
owner: Go Daddy Operating Company, LLC
number: 09576065
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130717
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 944 790 filed on Jul. 17 2013 and entitled SYSTEM FOR MAINTAINING COMMON DATA ACROSS MULTIPLE PLATFORMS. 

The present invention generally relates to data storage and optimization and more specifically to systems and methods for efficiently and effectively propagating changes to information in a database across multiple media platforms.

The Internet comprises a vast number of computers and computer networks that are interconnected through communication links. The interconnected computers exchange information using various services. In particular a server computer system referred to herein as a web server may connect through the Internet to a remote client computer system and may send to the remote client computer system upon request one or more websites containing one or more graphical and textual web pages of information. A request is made to the web server by visiting the website s address known as a Uniform Resource Locator URL . Upon receipt the requesting device can display the web pages. The request and display of the websites are typically conducted using a browser. A browser is a special purpose application program that effects the requesting of web pages and the displaying of web pages.

Browsers are able to locate specific websites because each website resource and computer on the Internet has a unique Internet Protocol IP address. Presently there are two standards for IP addresses. The older IP address standard often called IP Version 4 IPv4 is a 32 bit binary number which is typically shown in dotted decimal notation where four 8 bit bytes are separated by a dot from each other e.g. 64.202.167.32 . The notation is used to improve human readability. The newer IP address standard often called IP Version 6 IPv6 or Next Generation Internet Protocol IPng is a 128 bit binary number. The standard human readable notation for IPv6 addresses presents the address as eight 16 bit hexadecimal words each separated by a colon e.g. 2EDC BA98 0332 0000 CF8A 000C 2154 7313 .

IP addresses however even in human readable notation are difficult for people to remember and use. A URL is much easier to remember and may be used to point to any computer directory or file on the Internet. A browser is able to access a website on the Internet through the use of a URL. The URL may include a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request combined with the website s Internet address also known as the website s domain name. An example of a URL with a HTTP request and domain name is http www.companyname.com. In this example the http identifies the URL as a HTTP request and the companyname.com is the domain name.

Domain names are much easier to remember and use than their corresponding IP addresses. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ICANN approves some Generic Top Level Domains gTLD and delegates the responsibility to a particular organization a registry for maintaining an authoritative source for the registered domain names within a TLD and their corresponding IP addresses. For certain TLDs e.g. .biz .info .name and .org the registry is also the authoritative source for contact information related to the domain name and is referred to as a thick registry. For other TLDs e.g. .com and .net only the domain name registrar identification and name server information is stored within the registry and a registrar is the authoritative source for the contact information related to the domain name. Such registries are referred to as thin registries. Most gTLDs are organized through a central domain name Shared Registration System SRS based on their TLD.

The process for registering a domain name with .com .net .org and some other TLDs allows an Internet user to use an ICANN accredited registrar to register their domain name. For example if an Internet user John Doe wishes to register the domain name mycompany.com John Doe may initially determine whether the desired domain name is available by contacting a domain name registrar. The Internet user may make this contact using the registrar s webpage and typing the desired domain name into a field on the registrar s webpage created for this purpose. Upon receiving the request from the Internet user the registrar may ascertain whether mycompany.com has already been registered by checking the SRS database associated with the TLD of the domain name. The results of the search then may be displayed on the webpage to thereby notify the Internet user of the availability of the domain name. If the domain name is available the Internet user may proceed with the registration process. Otherwise the Internet user may keep selecting alternative domain names until an available domain name is found. Domain names are typically registered for a period of one to ten years with first rights to continually re register the domain name.

The information on web pages is in the form of programmed source code that the browser interprets to determine what to display on the requesting device. The source code may include document formats objects parameters positioning instructions and other code that is defined in one or more web programming or markup languages. One web programming language is HyperText Markup Language HTML and all web pages use it to some extent. HTML uses text indicators called tags to provide interpretation instructions to the browser. The tags specify the composition of design elements such as text images shapes hyperlinks to other web pages programming objects such as JAVA applets form fields tables and other elements. The web page can be formatted for proper display on computer systems with widely varying display parameters due to differences in screen size resolution processing power and maximum download speeds.

Websites can be generated from structured data stored in a database or other data store. In a basic implementation the data can include multiple records having a data type and content and a web programming interface can access the database retrieve records having the desired data types and add the content of those records to one or more web pages. Additionally data formats and schema exist that optimize the structured data for inclusion on a website. For example the Microdata format is a set of HTML tags used to delineate types of data on a web page. Microdata tags can be used in conjunction with a defined data type vocabulary such as that provided by schema.org to retain information relating to the data type of data extracted from the database and placed on the website. Retaining such information allows Internet search engines to better understand the content of a website.

The Internet continues to be increasingly valuable to individuals and businesses alike. More people use the Web for everyday tasks from social networking shopping banking and paying bills to consuming media and entertainment. E commerce is growing with businesses delivering more services and content across the Internet communicating and collaborating online and inventing new ways to connect with each other. It is advantageous for individuals and businesses to maintain an online presence which may include presenting information about the individual or business on multiple online platforms. For example a business might have its own website at www.thebusiness.com business listings on GOOGLE Places for Business and BING Places for Business a profile page on FACEBOOK one or more blast email lists and a mobile application app that customers download to their mobile device. These platforms can have different virtual locations i.e. different domains and partially or fully incompatible formats despite sharing common information.

Information that is typically common across platforms normally includes the most important information. For individuals this might be name photo phone number TWITTER handle blog or personal web page address and the like. For businesses this might be name address phone number hours of operation news feed product information such as menus or inventory and the like. Whether such information changes frequently or only on rare occasion it is very important to the individual or business that the information is consistently presented across all of its online platforms. Unfortunately the incompatibilities between platforms can require the individual or business to either manually update the information multiple times or engage a web design firm to maintain the information at some expense and with some risk of errors or omissions as the information is repeatedly updated.

Relatedly an individual or business may wish to maintain a consistent visual presentation referred to herein as a theme across its platforms. Platform incompatibility may prevent or limit the consistency of the theme. For example color schemes graphic elements and layouts are all completely customizable for a standalone website but FACEBOOK imposes a strict profile format where graphics and layout cannot be easily carried over. It would be advantageous to identify the elements of a theme that can be adapted for use on each platform in order to best provide the desired consistent presentation. Further changes to the theme could be more easily propagated across platforms.

Despite the increasing use of the Internet and other online or electronic platforms individuals and businesses still have physical presences and use printed collateral to convey some of the information from their web presence. Again the information conveyed on printed collateral such as flyers brochures catalogs business cards newsletters and the like can include name contact information and other information that must be kept consistent. Additionally printed collateral frequently determines or shares the theme or themes used online. Printed collateral can be designed electronically using graphic design software such as ADOBE PHOTOSHOP publishing software such as PAGEPLUS and other software. These programs can store the information and graphics to be printed in design files that can be accessed by other programs or interfaces.

The present invention overcomes the aforementioned drawbacks by providing a system and method for the maintenance of a user s common data across multiple media platforms by storing the common data as structured data in a database formatting the common data according to one or more display formats required by each of the platforms and transmitting the formatted common data either to the platform to the user or to an end user depending on the requirements of the platform. At least one of the platforms may be a website hosting service that provides the user s website to the public. The web server tasked with serving the website to requesting devices also known as a hosting provider may perform one or more algorithms for the data maintenance. Alternatively the web server may assign the maintenance to a related computer system such as another web server collection of web or other servers a dedicated data processing computer or another computer capable of performing the maintenance algorithms. Alternatively a standalone program may be delivered to and installed on a personal computing device such as the user s desktop computer or mobile device and the standalone program may be configured to cause the personal computing device to perform the maintenance algorithms. For clarity of explanation and not to limit the implementation of the present methods the methods are described below as being performed by a web server that serves the website to requesting devices. The creation of web pages documents and printed collateral is described with a left sided prioritization for left to right reading countries it will be understood that left and right directions may be reversed for right to left reading countries.

Common data as used herein may be any information that the user wants to accurately and consistently maintain across a plurality of publically available platforms. That is the user may desire each element of common data to be the same on every platform. In accordance with the present disclosure each common data element may be promptly updated on all or a subset of the platforms when the element is added or changed on one platform. A platform as used herein is a public or semi private source of information on which a user may maintain information and allow the information to be presented to the public or to a limited audience. A platform may have one or more defined publishing formats that the web server can emulate or for which the web server can provide format ready content as described further below. Platforms in accordance with this disclosure may include without limitation online platforms such as websites social network profiles and content feeds and streams including RSS feeds blogs and vlogs YOUTUBE channels and other video streaming services and the like downloadable and other offline digital platforms such as electronic newsletters blast emails PDFs and other documents programs and the like non digital electronic platforms such as radio and television broadcasts and non electronic platforms such as letterhead flyers brochures print advertisements and the like.

In one implementation a method in accordance with this disclosure may include receiving from a user content information for building a website for the user. The content information may be or include one or more common data elements for a plurality of third party platforms. The method may further include extracting the common data elements from the content information identifying the common data elements that map to one or more display elements of each third party platform accessing each third party platform and transmitting the identified common data elements to the respective third party platform. The method may further include storing the common data elements in a stored data structure receiving one or more updated common data elements for the plurality of third party platforms and comparing the updated common data elements to one or more of the common data elements in the stored data structure. Then for any of the updated common data elements that do not match the common data elements to which the updated common data elements are compared the method may include storing the updated common data element in the stored data structure in place of the common data element and transmitting the updated common data element to one or more of the plurality of third party platforms. The method may further include receiving from the user authorization to access one or more of the third party platforms on behalf of the user.

In another implementation a method in accordance with this disclosure may include receiving one or more data elements comprising common data for a plurality of platforms and comparing the data elements to one or more elements of a stored data structure. If the data elements do not match the elements of the stored data structure to which the data elements are compared the method may include transmitting the data elements to one or more of the plurality of platforms. The method may further include determining that one or more of the data elements is a new common data element that does not correspond to any element of the stored data structure and transmitting the new common data elements to one or more of the plurality of platforms. The method may further include providing an interface to a user and allowing the user to enter the one or more data elements on the interface. The interface may be provided on a web server and accessible by the user over the internet or the interface may be provided on one of the platforms. Receiving the one or more data elements may include prompting the user to enter into the interface information for building a website receiving the information from the user extracting the one or more data elements from the information creating one or more web pages containing the information entered by the user and storing the one or more web pages as the stored data structure. Prompting the user to enter information for building a website may include retrieving a template for a web page the template comprising one or more regions formatted to display common data and prompting the user to enter the information intended to be displayed in each of the regions.

Receiving the one or more data elements may include receiving the one or more data elements from one of the plurality of platforms after the one or more data elements are entered onto the platform. Alternatively receiving the one or more data elements may include accessing one of the platforms polling the platform to determine whether any of the common data has been modified and retrieving the modified common data as the one or more elements. Transmitting the data elements to one or more of the plurality of platforms may include identifying one or more of the platforms as requiring an update to the common data formatting the data elements according to one or more publishing formats of the identified platforms and sending the formatted data elements to the identified platforms. Formatting the data elements may include identifying from one or more templates formatted according to one of the publishing formats one or more of the templates as containing one or more of the elements of the data structure to which the received data elements are compared. Formatting the data elements may further include identifying within the one or more identified templates one or more regions containing common data and formatting the data elements for inclusion in the identified regions. The method may further include analyzing each platform to determine which of the elements of the stored data structure map to each data field and customizable element provided by the platform which may be performed using one or more scoring algorithms.

The stored data structure may be contained within a content database and the method may further include updating the stored data structure with the data elements. Such updating may include one or both of storing in the stored data structure any data element that does not match the element of the stored data structure to which the data element is compared and storing in the stored data structure any data element that is not comparable to an element of the stored data structure. The stored data structure may be one or more web pages.

In another implementation a method in accordance with this disclosure may include storing in one or more data structures one or more first data elements comprising common data for a plurality of platforms each first data element having a data type. The method may further include receiving one or more second data elements comprising common data for the plurality of platforms each second data element having a data type. The method may further include comparing second data elements to first data elements of the same data type. For each of the second data elements that do not match the first data elements to which the second data elements are compared the method may include storing in the data structure the second data element in place of the first data element to which it is compared. The method may further include determining that one or more of the second data elements is a new common data element that does not correspond to any first data element storing the new common data elements in one or more of the data structures and storing one or more templates formatted according to one or more publishing formats of one or more of the platforms each of the templates having one or more regions for displaying common data from the one or more data structures.

In another implementation a method in accordance with this disclosure may include receiving from a web server one or more data elements comprising common data for a plurality of platforms and storing each of the data elements according to a publishing format. The data elements may be formatted according to the publishing format upon receipt from the web server. The method may further include formatting the data elements for the publishing format. The method may further include providing to the web server one or more data fields to which the web server maps the one or more data elements. Receiving the one or more data elements from the web server may include receiving a template formatted according to the publishing format and comprising one or more regions containing common data. Storing each of the data elements may include storing the template.

In another implementation a method in accordance with this disclosure may include entering into an interface one or more data elements comprising common data for a plurality of platforms and causing the interface to transmit the data elements to one or more servers. The servers may be configured to compare the data elements to one or more elements of a stored data structure and if the data elements do not match the elements of the stored data structure to which the data elements are compared transmit the data elements to one or more of the plurality of platforms. The interface may be provided by one of the servers over the internet or the interface may be provided on one of the platforms. Entering the data elements may include entering information in response to a series of prompts on the interface. The information may include the data elements and other data to be displayed on a website. The servers may be further configured to receive the information and generate one or more web pages using one or more templates. The method may further include selecting a desired template from a plurality of templates. The method may further include providing the one or more servers with access to each of the plurality of platforms.

In another implementation a method in accordance with this disclosure may include receiving one or more data elements comprising common data for a plurality of platforms and transmitting one or more of the data elements to one or more of the platforms. The method may further include receiving a first list of the platforms to which the data elements must be transmitted and transmitting one or more of the data elements to one or more of the platforms may include transmitting one or more of the data elements to each platform on the first list. The method may further include receiving a second list of the data elements to be transmitted to each platform on the first list and transmitting one or more of the data elements to one or more of the platforms may include transmitting the data elements to the platforms according to the second list. Furthermore or alternatively transmitting one or more of the data elements to one or more of the platforms may include identifying which of the plurality of platforms should receive one or more of the data elements. The data elements may be received from an interface or from one of the platforms.

In another implementation a system in accordance with this disclosure may include a server in electronic communication with a plurality of third party platforms. The server may be configured to receive from a user content information for building a website for the user. The content information may include one or more common data elements for a plurality of third party platforms. The server may be further configured to extract the common data elements from the content information. Then for each third party platform the server may be configured to identify the common data elements that map to one or more display elements of the third party platform access the third party platform and transmit the identified common data elements to the third party platform. The first server may receive the content information from the user by retrieving a template for a web page the template comprising one or more regions formatted to display common data and prompting the user to enter the information intended to be displayed in each of the regions. The server may be further configured to store the common data elements in a stored data structure receive one or more updated common data elements for the plurality of third party platforms compare the updated common data elements to one or more of the common data elements in the stored data structure and for any of the updated common data elements that do not match the common data elements to which the updated common data elements are compared store the updated common data element in the stored data structure in place of the common data element and transmit the updated common data element to one or more of the plurality of third party platforms.

In another implementation a system in accordance with this disclosure may include a first server in electronic communication with a plurality of platforms. The first server may have access to a stored data structure containing one or more common data elements and may be configured to receive one or more input data elements comprising common data for the plurality of platforms obtain a comparison of the input data elements to one or more of the common data elements in the stored data structure and for each input data element that does not match a common data element transmit the input data element to one or more of the plurality of platforms. The system may obtain the comparison by querying a content database containing the stored data structure. The first server may contain the content database or the system may include a second server that contains the content database and is remote from and in electronic communication with the first server or the content database may be contained on one or more of the platforms. The first server may transmit the input data elements to the platforms by identifying one or more of the platforms as requiring an update to its common data formatting the input data elements according to one or more publishing formats of the identified platforms and sending the formatted data elements to the identified platforms. Formatting the input data elements may include identifying from one or more templates formatted according to one of the publishing formats one or more of the templates as containing one or more of the common data elements of the data structure to which the input data elements are compared identifying within the one or more identified templates one or more regions containing common data and formatting the input data elements for inclusion in the identified regions. The first server may be further configured to determine that one or more of the input data elements is a new common data element that does not correspond to any common data element of the stored data structure and to transmit the new common data elements to one or more of the plurality of platforms.

The first server may be further configured to prompt the user to enter information for building a website the information including the one or more input data elements. The first server may received the information from the user and extract the one or more input data elements from the information. The prompting for information may include retrieving a template for a web page the template having one or more regions formatted to display common data and prompting the user to enter the information intended to be displayed in each of the regions. The first server may be further configured to analyze each platform to determine which of the common data elements of the stored data structure map to each data field and customizable element provided by the platform and may use one or more scoring algorithms to analyze each platform. The stored data structure may be one or more web pages.

The first server may be further configured to update the stored data structure by storing in the stored data structure any input data element that does not match the common data element of the stored data structure to which the input data element is compared and storing in the stored data structure any input data element that is not comparable to a common data element of the stored data structure. The first server may be further configured to access one of the platforms poll the platform to determine whether any of its common data has been modified and retrieve the modified common data as the one or more input data elements. The system may further include an interface in electronic communication with the first server. The interface may be configured to allow a user to enter the one or more input data elements on the interface. The interface may be provided on the first server and accessible by the user over the Internet or the interface may be provided on one or more of the platforms. The input data elements may be received from one of the plurality of platforms after the input data elements are entered onto the platform.

In another implementation a system in accordance with the present disclosure may include a content database located on one or more computers. The content database may be configured to store in one or more data structures one or more first data elements comprising common data for a plurality of platforms each first data element having a data type receive one or more second data elements comprising common data for the plurality of platforms each second data element having a data type and for each of the second data elements that do not match the first data elements to which the second data elements are compared store in the data structure the second data element in place of the first data element to which it is compared. The content database may be further configured to determine that one or more of the second data elements is a new common data element that does not correspond to any first data element and to store the new common data elements in one or more of the data structures. The content database may be further configured to store one or more templates formatted according to one or more publishing formats of one or more of the platforms each of the templates having one or more regions for displaying common data from the one or more data structures.

In another implementation a system in accordance with the present disclosure may include one or more platforms each platform being configured to present a subset of a user s information and each platform s subset of the user s information comprising one or more common data elements. Each platform may have access through electronic communication with a server to a stored data structure containing the common data elements. Each platform may be configured to receive from the server one or more updated common data elements and to replace one or more of the common data elements in the platform s subset of the user s information with the one or more updated common data elements. Each platform may be further configured to receive one or more input data elements comprising common data and to transmit the one or more input data elements to the server.

The system may also include a data processing module for each platform the data processing modules being in electronic communication with each other having access to a stored data structure containing the common data elements and being configured to receive one or more input data elements comprising common data for the plurality of platforms obtain a comparison of the input data elements to one or more of the common data elements in the stored data structure and for each input data element that does not match a common data element transmit the input data element to one or more of the other data processing modules. The comparison may be obtained by querying a content database containing the stored data structure. The content database may reside on one or more of the platforms or the system may further comprise a server containing the content database the server being in electronic communication with each of the data processing modules.

In another implementation a system in accordance with the present disclosure may include an interface for communicating with one or more platforms each platform being configured to present a subset of a user s information and each platform s subset of the user s information comprising one or more common data elements. The interface may be configured to receive one or more input data elements comprising common data transmit the input data elements to one of the platforms if the input data elements are received from a server and transmit the input data elements to the server if the input data elements are received from one of the platforms or from the user.

In another implementation a system in accordance with the present disclosure may include one or more computers in electronic communication with a server the one or more computers being configured to receive from a user content information comprising one or more common data elements for a plurality of third party platforms extract the common data elements from the content information and transmit the common data elements to the server. The server may be in electronic communication with a plurality of third party platforms and may be configured to identify the common data elements that map to one or more display elements of each third party platform and transmit the identified common data elements to that third party platform. The content information may be used to build a website for the user.

In any implementation the plurality of platforms may include one or more of online platforms offline electronic platforms and non electronic platforms. The online platforms may include at least one website hosting platform and at least one social networking platform. The non electronic platforms may include a letterhead.

Referring to a web server may be configured to communicate electronically with one or more data stores in order to store update and retrieve information from the data stores. The electronic communication may be over the Internet using any suitable electronic communication medium communication protocol and computer software including without limitation a wired connection WiFi or other wireless network cellular network or satellite network TCP IP or another open or encrypted protocol browser software application programming interfaces middleware or dedicated software programs. The electronic communication may be over another type of network such as an intranet or virtual private network or may be via direct wired communication interfaces or any other suitable interface for transmitting data electronically between a data store and the web server . In some embodiments a data store may be a component of the web server such as by being contained in a memory module or on a disk drive of the web server .

A data store may be any repository of information that is or can be made freely or securely accessible by the web server . Suitable data stores include without limitation databases or database systems which may be a local database online database desktop database server side database relational database hierarchical database network database object database object relational database associative database concept oriented database entity attribute value database multi dimensional database semi structured database star schema database XML database file collection of files spreadsheet or other means of data storage located on a computer client server or any other storage device known in the art or developed in the future file systems and electronic files such as web pages spreadsheets and documents. Each data store accessible by the web server may contain information that is relevant to the maintenance of the user s common data as described below.

In some embodiments the common data may be stored as structured data in a content database . The common data may have any suitable format for storage depending on the type of common data. That is common data can be characters integers or floating point numbers text strings ordered or unordered lists single type or hybrid data structures images program code modules i.e. compiled web application widgets scripting language functions pointers to other data i.e. a URL or file location files and other objects. The common data may be structured at any suitable level of abstraction. For example in a relational database the common data may be organized into one or more tables including nested tables while in an object oriented database the common data may be organized into hierarchical data structures that parse the data into its simplest elements e.g. an address structure is parsed into street address city state and postal code .

The common data may depend on the type of user. For example as shown without limitation in an individual s common data may include a personal data set an account data set and a theme data set . The personal data set may include data structures for name location hometown birthdate or simply age contact information and other data structures. The account data set may include data structures for identifying online locations to which the user may want to direct visitors. Locations can include one or more social network profile pages one or more personal websites one or more favorite or relevant websites or web pages and one or more content streams such as a blog RSS or other feed YOUTUBE channel and the like. Data structures for the locations may include for example a location title location type and web address.

The theme data set may include data structures representing elements of a theme to be maintained across platforms. A theme as used herein is a unifying design used when presenting information on each platform. The theme may include the graphics layout and other aspects of the presentation of the user s information including common data. The data structures may include files such as images layout templates e.g. HTML or MICROSOFT WORD templates cascading style sheet CSS modules or other style sheets and other program code files i.e. PHP or Perl files . The data structures may further include color schemes skins and the like. Users can select a pre built theme and may then have the option of modifying one or more attributes e.g. color or design elements of the pre built theme. The attributes may be stored in a CSS file that can be utilized to control thematic elements across a number of platforms. The theme may also contain decorative elements design elements user preference relating to what display elements e.g. information or widgets are displayed on a particular website and how the display elements should be rendered customizations of the overall color palette font selection image placement and the like. This theme information can be stored in the content database or another database.

In some cases the user may specify a position of the elements within the theme or in a particular rendering. In some implementations this positional information can be utilized to infer how the user wishes to use each piece of information or widget. This may enable for example mapping display elements to be pulled from a website and utilized within the user s twitter profile page.

The web server may maintain the common data using one or a combination of any suitable database querying and control schema such as MySQL Oracle IBM DB2 or another relational database management system JADE DB4O or another object oriented database management system or other schema and associated systems. Maintaining the common data may include executing queries or instructions upon the content database in order to store new data elements update or delete existing data elements and retrieve data elements for distribution to one or more of the platforms.

Referring again to and as described above the user which may be an individual or group of individuals or a business or other organization represented by an employee third party or other agent may access the web server using an interface . The interface may be located on the web server and communicated to the user over the Internet or another computer network. Alternatively the interface may be located on a device accessible to the user such as a desktop or laptop computer tablet computer smartphone personal data assistant server mainframe and the like. Alternatively the interface may be located on one or more of the platforms. The platforms may include one or more website hosting platforms e.g. GODADDY Web Hosting one or more social networking profile listing platforms e.g. FACEBOOK TWITTER GOOGLE Places for Business one or more content feed platforms e.g. YOUTUBE WORDPRESS one or more digital offline or downloadable content platforms e.g. AMAZON Simple Email Service FTP server one or more non digital electronic platforms e.g. television radio and one or more non electronic collateral creation platforms e.g. printed media layout and publishing software with which the web server may be in electronic communication in order to send or receive data. In general the web server may be configured to communicate electronically with any suitable platform in order to perform the common data maintenance in accordance with this disclosure. A platform may comprise one or more local data stores. The local data store may be directly accessible by the web server or the respective platform may have an interface such as an application programming interface API or another database frontend through which the web server may transmit and receive data.

In some embodiments one or more of the local data stores may contain its own instance of the common data which exists separately from the centrally maintained instance of the common data within the content database . To maintain consistency of the common data in these embodiments the web server may retrieve current common data from the content database according to the methods described herein and transmit it to one or more of the platforms or each platform may periodically or upon an event query the web server for the most current common data. With its locally stored common data updated each platform may then format the common data according to its native formats. In other embodiments a single instance of the common data may be maintained in the content database . The web server may retrieve format and deliver the common data to one or more of the platforms as described further below. The local data stores do not retain a copy of the common data per se but store the formatted data as delivered by the web server .

One or more of the platforms may have one or more predefined publication formats in which the common data and other content should be placed for publication on the associated platform. A platform format may be a file type or a combination of file types that the platform uses to publish data. A platform format may additionally or alternatively be a template theme layout or other organizational scheme that coordinates data elements for display in the publication. In some embodiments the platform format may include a data element identification scheme such as a metadata tag scheme that the web server can access to determine which common data elements should be included in the format. The platform format may further inform the web server how to size and stylize the common data elements and where to place them. illustrate non limiting examples of platform formats for certain platforms.

In the illustrated example template each page layout includes a masthead region and a navigation region . The masthead region may display the entity s name logo other graphics or a combination thereof. The web server may determine that the masthead region contains common data elements from at least the basic data set i.e. entity name and logo and potentially also the theme data set i.e. other graphics or colors . The navigation region may display internal links to other web pages in the website and may contain colors or other common data from the theme data set . The home page layout further contains a main graphic region an attraction region a location region and a news region . The main graphic region displays a relevant and eye catching graphic such as a photo of the storefront or of a dish served at the restaurant. The attraction region displays relevant and eye catching text information such as the restaurant s specials or other data that may be common data located in the content data set or another data set. The location region displays important contact information such as a map locating the restaurant and the restaurant s address and phone number. The web server may determine that the displayed information is common data from the basic data set . The news region displays recent information published about the restaurant which may be common data stored in the content data set .

The menu page layout may further include a menu region for displaying the restaurant s menu which may be in the content data set . The about page layout may further include a bio image region and a biography region . The bio image region displays a relevant graphic such as a photo of the storefront or restaurant owners which may be common data in the basic data set . The biography region displays a narrative regarding the restaurant and its owners. While not illustrated in the narrative may be common data stored in one of the illustrated data sets such as the content data set or another data set. The contact page layout may further include an info region and a feedback region . The info region displays contact information such as phone number address map and the like. The web server may determine that the displayed information is common data from the basic data set . The feedback region displays a form for website visitors to fill out and submit to the restaurant. The form structure may be stored in the template.

In the illustrated example home page layout a cover photo region displays a photo which may be common data from one of the data sets in the content database . A profile photo region displays another common photo such as the restaurant s logo which may be in the basic data set . An entity name region displays the restaurant s name which is common data in the basic data set . A basic information region displays the restaurant s address phone number hours of operation type of cuisine and other common data from the basic data set . A navigation region displays internal links to other pages of the user s FACEBOOK profile. News regions display recent information published about the restaurant some of which may be common data stored in the content data set .

The about page layout may include a map region for displaying a mapped location of the restaurant which may be derived from address information in the basic data set . A biography region displays a narrative regarding the restaurant and its owners. While not illustrated in the narrative may be common data stored in one of the illustrated data sets such as the content data set or another data set. A restaurant info region displays contact information such as phone number address hours of operation and the like which may include common data from the basic data set . A platforms region displays links to other online platforms where the restaurant has a presence. The information for the links may include common data from the account data set .

The events page layout may include an event list region for listing information about events at the restaurant. For example an event can include a title photo date time and cost which may be common data elements stored in an event data structure in the content data set . Similarly the notes page layout may include a list of notes news items articles or other content each item being stored in a data structure as common data in the content data set .

In other embodiments the web server or a separate interface not shown may be configured to periodically retrieve the common data from each platform so that it is received on the web server .

At step the web server may compare the received common data to the common data stored in the content database . If necessary the web server may first identify the common data that was received. In some embodiments the web server may identify the common data using the data element identification scheme of each platform. Comparing the common data may include querying the content database for the same data elements that were received at step and determining if the data elements in the content database match those received. If there are no data elements in the content database that correspond to the received data elements the received data elements comprise new common data that at step the web server may add to the content database . Otherwise if the data elements match no update is needed and if the data elements do not match the web server updates the common data in the content database at step .

At step the web server identifies which platforms should be updated with the received common data. To enable accurate and precise updating of the platforms each platform is analyzed to determine a purpose or function of each customizable element or data field provided by the platform. The common data is then analyzed to determine which types of common data map to the customizable elements or data fields offered by each platform. The suitability of particular data elements in the common data to map to particular elements or data fields of a platform can be scored using any appropriate scoring algorithm. One approach may include scoring the intent of each image on the user s common data in order to rank likelihood of that data to map to the receiving platform s configurable data field. For example one component of Twitter profile banner photo scoring is knowing a large dominant image hero image on the home page of a website near the top middle is likely to map. Alternatively the dimensions of images contained in the common data may be utilized to determine the suitability of a particular image for an image field of a particular platform. If the dimensions match or are sufficiently close to one another e.g. their dimensions fall within a threshold range the image in common data may be determined to be suitable for use in the platform s image

When updating a platform with new common data the update may involve retransmitting all suitable common data or a subset thereof in new data transmissions or alternatively only transmitting or updating a delta from the old values stored with the platform.

In some embodiments the content database or another data store accessible by the web server may include a structured list of platforms to which the common data should be delivered when it is updated. The structured list may also include for each platform access information such as a login password combination that the web server may use to deliver common data. As not all platforms may require every element of common data the structured list may further include for each platform a sub list of the common data elements that should be transmitted to the platform when such elements are changed. The sub list of common data elements may include formats particular to each platform for one or more of the data elements. For example a first format for a common profile photo may have a first size of 200 200 pixels for FACEBOOK and a second format may have a second size of 130 130 pixels for TWITTER. The structured list may additionally or alternatively include metadata tags or other identifiers that associate a particular data element with its appropriate element in a predefined publishing format.

At step the web server may update the platforms identified as needing an update of the common data. In some embodiments the web server may transmit the new or changed common data to the platforms in a raw or partially formatted state. Examples of such transmission include a raw data stream raw or rich text file or a data structure in a readable format such as XML JSON MICROSOFT EXCEL spreadsheet or MICROSOFT ACCESS database entries. Each platform may then extract the common data from the transmission and format the common data according to its own purposes. Alternatively the new or changed common data may be transmitted to a platform using an API provided by the platform. In that case the new or changed common data may be formatted in accordance with requirements established by that API. In some cases the platform s API will be a publicly available API for which documentation is readily available. In other cases the API will not be public and instead may be provided pursuant to an agreement between the platform owner and the operator of the web server .

Additionally or alternatively the web server may format the common data according to one or more of the publishing formats used by each of the platforms. The web server may retain or store in the content database or another data store one or more templates such as those illustrated in for each platform s publishing formats. Referring to some embodiments of the step of updating the platforms may include at step identifying the templates of each platform that contain regions that should be updated with the common data.

For example when publishing data to a third party platform such as TWITTER or FACEBOOK a number of techniques may be utilized to identify data stored within the common data that map to one or more display elements of the third party platform. For example if a third party platform has a background image display element a suitable image can be identified in the common data. One approach for identifying a suitable background image in the common data can include identifying an image that has been used as a background image in the user s website or alternatively the background color of the user s website .

If a third party platform calls for a header image or cover photo the common data can be analyzed using a scoring criteria to identify images that can be used as header images or cover photos. Example criteria that may be used to score an image include whether the image is used on the user s home page whether the image is a hero image i.e. the largest image on a web page located at the top middle of a web page first image in a slideshow etc. whether the shape of the image matches the dimensions called for by the third party platform and the like.

If a third party platform calls for a profile picture the common data can be analyzed using a scoring criteria to identify images that can be used as profile images. Example criteria that may be used to score an image include whether an image in the common data has been placed into the user s website using absolute positioning with more points being given to images located in the top left of a web page and if no pictures are on the left of the web page more points are awarded to images on the right side of the web page additional points may be given to images that are closer to the dimensions of a profile image e.g. images that have square dimensions the file name of the uploaded image e.g. more points will be awarded to images that have file names of logo.gif and the like.

In the specific case of the third party platform being TWITTER the common data can be analyzed to determine a suitable list of handles that the user may wish to follow and in some cases the user s TWITTER account may be accessed to cause the account to follow the identified list of handles . For example the common data may be utilized to identify an industry category for the user or the user s business. Then based upon that industry determination TWITTER s auto follow API may be utilized to determine a list of handles to follow.

In some cases the scoring criteria described above can be updated refined and otherwise modified based upon how often users modify images that are automatically selected from the common data.

At step for each template the web server loads the template and then at step the web server identifies the regions containing common data that should be changed. At step the web server determines from HTML tags metatags or other formatting tags how to format the common data for inclusion in the region. At step the web server formats the common data according to the determined format. The web server may repeat steps for each identified template. At step the web server transmits the formatted common data to the platform by transmitting the template the region or the formatted data itself.

In accordance with the described system and methods the web server may create from structured data stored in a content database one or more web pages of a website. Furthermore the web server may receive some or all of the common data elements from the user during the website creation process and may store or update the common data elements in one or more data structures. In one embodiment the web server may provide through the interface a series of prompts for receiving information that the user may want to display on the web pages. The prompts may be used to derive the proper templates to be used for creating the website. For example the web server may prompt the user to enter the type of business i.e. restaurant mechanic massage parlor etc. that the website will promote. The user s input allows the web server to select a template that has regions for containing the relevant content or to select a subset of templates and provide the templates to the user for selection. The information provided by the user may include content information to be incorporated into the regions of the web page templates. The web server may store the common data in data structures. The data structures may be stored in a database as described above or alternatively the data structures may be stored as web pages in any suitable markup language. In the latter case common data elements may be identified through Microdata or other tagging so that the web server may perform the common data maintenance methods described above by extracting elements from and storing elements within the web pages rather than a central database.

Furthermore the web server may create different versions of the website in order to serve requested website content to requesting devices of varying capabilities. A requesting device may be a device for which web pages are typically designed without concern for display user interface processing or Internet bandwidth limitations including without limitation personal and workplace computing systems such as desktops laptops and thin clients each with a monitor or built in large display collectively PCs . A requesting device may be a device that cannot display the informational and functional content of web pages that are designed for viewing on PCs. Such limited devices include mobile devices such as mobile phones and tablet computers and may further include other similarly limited devices for which conventional websites are not ordinarily designed. Mobile devices and mobile phones in particular have a significantly smaller display size than PCs and may further have significantly less processing power and if receiving data over a cellular network significantly less Internet bandwidth. The web server may use the same data from the content database used to create the website to also create publications across other platforms as described above.

Referring to a system for performing the common data maintenance methods described above may include the web server and a plurality of modules for performing one or more steps of the methods. The modules may be hardware or software based processing modules located within the web server in close physical vicinity to the web server or remove from the web server and implemented as standalone computer servers or as components of one or more additional servers. The modules may include without limitation a user interface module for providing input output capabilities between the system and the user a data retrieval module for performing queries and modifications of the content database and other data stores a data processing module for evaluating and comparing received and retrieved data a formatting module which may be a component of the data processing module or a separate module and which populates an identified template as described above and stores the template one or more data storage modules for storing templates common data structuring paradigms and related data and a communication module for communicating with the various platforms.

The schematic flow chart diagrams included are generally set forth as logical flow chart diagrams. As such the depicted order and labeled steps are indicative of one embodiment of the presented method. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more steps or portions thereof of the illustrated method. Additionally the format and symbols employed are provided to explain the logical steps of the method and are understood not to limit the scope of the method. Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flow chart diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding method. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the method. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted method. Additionally the order in which a particular method occurs may or may not strictly adhere to the order of the corresponding steps shown.

The present invention has been described in terms of one or more preferred embodiments and it should be appreciated that many equivalents alternatives variations and modifications aside from those expressly stated are possible and within the scope of the invention.

