---

title: Cloud computed data service for automated reporting of vehicle trip data and analysis
abstract: This disclosure generally relates to systems and methods to receiving onboard diagnostic data associated with an operational state of a vehicle of a user and pushing a message to the user, the message including information associated with the onboard diagnostic data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09286266&OS=09286266&RS=09286266
owner: Left Lane Network, Inc.
number: 09286266
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130506
---
This patent application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 643 015 to Fleck et al. entitled Vehicle Monitoring System filed on May 4 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Modern vehicles such as automobiles are able to provide electronic data containing information about the vehicle including measured or derived parameters such as water temperature engine torque power vehicle mileage and maintenance flags. However these data are not always available in a form accessible to people who do not have specialized training and or purpose built data readers.

Disclosed in some examples are methods systems and machine readable media which enable vehicle users to manage and enhance their relationships with their vehicles. The system may provide an integrated interface in which users may monitor vehicle status track vehicle costs enhance their vehicle experience by connecting with other users of the system and the like.

Examples can monitor and automatically calculate vehicle trip segment data for related allowable expense reimbursement from an employer allowable vehicle expenses for tax deduction and per trip segment data to support billable client expenses for drive time and distance among other things. Examples can provide an integrated interface and automatic reports of each trip or trip segment in which user can monitor vehicle trip expense vehicle status.

Examples include an application referred to as the Tripdots application the Tripdots app or the app. The Tripdots app can be stored on and operated by a mobile device such as a handset. The Tripdots app can function as part of an Tripdots system which can include the mobile device one or more networks one or more servers such as to store data and provide access thereto locally or remotely on or more modules to run on devices of the system services to communicate information with the system and other systems and methods as set forth herein.

The figure illustrates an embodiment of the Tripdots system in which a user can operate a mobile device to operate the app. The app can communicate over an Tripdots cloud or network which can provide for certain internet based communications including information associated with the vehicle .

As shown the Tripdots network can be accessed via one or more domains Tripdots.com and Tripdots.net and the second cloud network can be accessed via one or more domains with one of them optionally being shared with the Tripdots network . In this manner an account management application can operate on a device and access the data including executable applications and other information on one or both of the Tripdots network and the second network .

Returning to the system can include an optional network based check in system and an OBD or vehicle head unit interface . An OBD or vehicle head unit interface can include an API. The interface can include an associated network service. The OBD or vehicle head unit interface is an optional service to extract OBD information from the vehicle and communicate it to the Tripdots network . In an example the OBD or vehicle head unit interface includes a device coupled to the vehicle and configured for wired or wireless communications with other devices of the OBD or vehicle head unit interface to receive OBD information and derive or relay messages associated with the OBD information to the Tripdots network . In some examples the OBD or vehicle head unit interface which can comprise any service configured to communicate with a vehicle communication bus can communicate with the vehicle to transact information related to operation of the vehicle including but not limited to parameters associated with emissions production performance parameters and other parameters. In an example the user can connect to the network based check in system via a mobile device e.g. smart phone PDA laptop or similar mobile electronic device capable of some form of data connectivity . Other services can operate as part of the Tripdots network as set forth herein.

The Tripdots app can be configured to provide information about a vehicle in a manner useful to a wide range of vehicle operators. Here it should be noted that a vehicle operator is not necessarily an app user although in some embodiments this is true. Information about the vehicle can be used to improve the way a vehicle operator operates a vehicle including providing information to guide maintenance information to better enable users to perform preventative maintenance and information to improve the efficiency of vehicle operation. Some examples provide information usable to lower the total cost or expense of ownership of the vehicle. Some examples provide other information such as social network messaging that can make the vehicle ownership experience enjoyable and in some instances enable others to comment on information associated with the vehicle.

Tripdots app examples disclosed herein can provide users with information about their vehicles that is relayed or derived from onboard diagnostics OBD . In various examples the information is communicated between the vehicle and the app using a protocol. Examples of protocols include but are not limited to an OBD II compatible protocol including but not limited to SAE standard J1850 which defines a serial data protocol SAE standard J1978 which defines minimal operating standards for OBD II scan tools SAE standard J1979 which defines standards for diagnostic test modes SAE standard J2012 which defines standards trouble codes and definitions SAE standard J2178 which defines standards for network message header formats and physical address assignments provides data parameter definitions defines standards for network message frame IDs for single byte headers and defines standards for network messages with three byte headers and SAE standard J2284 3 which defines 500K CAN Physical and Data Link Layer a protocol compatible with SAE standard J1939 and other protocols.

Examples include a device connectable to an OBD connector of a vehicle in some examples for providing vehicle information to the Tripdots app. The information can include any of the vehicle information disclosed herein and available via a vehicle communication data bus. The device can relay or derive vehicle information and communicate the information to the Tripdots app via corded or wireless communications. The communications can optionally pass through a service such as an OBD or vehicle head unit interface located on a network and adapted to provide the information to the Tripdots app such as via a wireless communication network that is in communication with a mobile device on which the Tripdots app is stored and operated. The device is referred to as an TripConnect Device in some examples.

App examples can provide users with information about their vehicles relayed or derived from external services such as a service communicating with the Tripdots service over a network such as the internet. Vehicle information can be relayed or derived from an original equipment manufacturer or a supplier thereto for example.

App examples can include a portion that is free to use. Other features can be enabled once a user purchases and installs a device such as to couple with a vehicle such as a device configured to mate to a vehicle connector such as a standard connector which can be an OBD II compatible connector or another connector coupled to an onboard data bus e.g. the TripConnect Device.

App examples can monitor engine performance of the vehicle . In an example engine performance is derived from one or more engine parameters including but not limited to one or more of water temperature oil temperature rotations per minute mass airflow air to fuel ratio knock sensor status timing advance fuel injector duty cycle torque output and other engine or engine related parameters are received by the application. These parameters can be monitored in real time or relayed or derived from data stored in a memory on a vehicle.

App examples can display diagnostics such as via an OBD reader device e.g. the TripConnect Device. One or more of the parameters of the vehicle can be used to provide a diagnostic. Such information can be made available at an onboard connector of the vehicle so that a device such as a code reader can receive the information and make a diagnostic. In some examples the diagnostic is determined such as by using sensor data by an onboard computer of the vehicle and is provided to an onboard vehicle connector in the form of a code or message readable by a device to display the code or message and relay related information e.g. an explanation of the issue. As such diagnostics can be relayed or derived from vehicle data that can include data present on a vehicle data bus such as an onboard diagnostic communication bus.

App examples can enable social networking. In an example an application can communicate vehicle information with other users e.g. users indicated to be friends. Being a friend means assuming a state in which there has been a one way or two way approval flag set by one or both users the friends respectively stored in association with a user account on another device that in communication with the application. App examples can provide linking and posting location e.g. check in to social media websites such as Facebook. The app can display any of this information to the user .

App examples can receive and push messaging and display notifications relevant to the user s location and to vehicles owned. In an example the app executes on a mobile device and is in communication with another device e.g. another computer forming a part of or in communication with the Tripdots network that can analyze data communicated with the app and or another source and push messages or notifications to the mobile device in association with the data. The data can be pushed in association with vehicle data such as location data transmitted to the other device. Notifications can be relayed or derived from information pushed from the other device.

Applications can display at least one of vehicle related cost or expense information vehicle tracking and vehicle management. In an example the application can be provided with expense information associated with vehicle operation. Examples include but are not limited to expense information provided by another device in communication with the application the expense information associated with at least one of spending in a location spending with a specific bank account vehicle mileage time of operation and combinations thereof. The expense information can also be provided directly to a mobile device on which the application is stored and which is configured to execute the application. In some examples a point of sale device can provide expense information to the mobile device. In some examples the expense information is inputted manually to the mobile device. In some examples a log is kept either on the device on which the application operates or another device of vehicle locations. Vehicle locations can include stored GPS information or other information including but not limited to point of sale information. Some examples provide notifications related to at least one of vehicle location vehicle operation duration vehicle distance traveled etc. to provide maintenance notifications.

Examples provide for the calculation per trip segment expense and trip segment value for employer reimbursement. Examples can allow tax deductions for one or more documented trips.

App examples can display maintenance reminders. In an example the application can generate maintenance reminders based on at least one of manually entered information information monitored from a vehicle and information communicated to a mobile device on which the application is configured to execute. Information can be communicated with another networked computer.

Related vehicle trip distance calculations with data including purpose of trip contact date time start and end locations can automate the calculation and report for employer expense reimbursement. Examples can allow for tax deductions for the related vehicle data.

App examples are configured to operate one or more mobile device components to retrieve information on the vehicle using an internet search for the VIN. In some examples the retrieved information is stored and automatically associated with the user s account. This information may be stored locally or in one of the cloud s .

In some examples the Tripdots network may contact one or more external data sources over a network. For example the app may contact a server run by the National Highway Transportation and Safety Administration and retrieve information related to safety recall service bulletins and crash test scores. The app may retrieve this by using application protocol interface API calls made available by these services to access this data or may scrape Internet WebPages provided by these data sources.

App examples can display manufacturer technical specifications for the vehicle such as by using vehicle information and or the VIN to perform an internet query. App examples can display EPA information including expected fuel mileage and green score i.e. a measure of emissions such as by using vehicle information and or the VIN to perform an internet query. App examples can display accolades and awards published for the vehicle such as by using vehicle information to perform an internet query. App examples can display OEM supplied data such as photos such as by using vehicle information to perform an internet query.

In some examples users may interact with another device to access information related to their vehicle. In one example accessing a website for example Tripdots.com or Tripdots.net can provide access to the information. As described herein the information can be accessed using a network such as a cloud network. In some examples the Tripdots app is configured to operate on a mobile device running a Windows Phone 7 i.e. Mango operating system developed by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. Some examples are configured to operated on a mobile device running an Apple iOS developed by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. Some examples are configured to operate on a mobile device running a Google Android operating system developed by Google Inc. of Mountainview Calif.

Examples can include one or more of the modules disclosed herein such as MODULE 1 New User Account Registration Login MODULE 2 User Settings Vehicle Selection Use Entry initial entry of vehicle mileage and expense MODULE 3 Vehicle Calculations Performance Gauges and Push Messaging MODULE 4 Social Networking Messaging and Leader Board MODULE 5 TripConnect Device Interfacing with Cloud network and MODULE 6 Administrative Web Portal and User Account . Each module can function independently or in conjunction with the others to deliver information to perform functions discussed herein. Accordingly the app can include one or more of the modules. One or more of the modules can also operate on another device of the Tripdots network such as a computer. Other modules can be included. A demonstration of how additional modules can interact as part of the Tripdots system is set forth in .

Upon installing the Tripdots app such as on a mobile device users can be granted access to features programmed into the application without having to complete a mandatory registration. Registration can be requested in order for users to use some features. Users can have the option to register after installation should they choose to do so. In an example registration can include one or more of the following 

Creation of a user account. The user account may include information such as car information e.g. make model VIN or the like user information such as name email address username password or the like a list of friends or the like. The user account information may be stored either on the mobile device the Tripdots network or any other component of system

Storage of an acceptance of a privacy policy e.g. information such as text content resident on a device on which the application executes or hosted remotely and provided via web services .

In some examples the user may enter social networking information e.g. Facebook Connect which may be used by the service to automatically retrieve one or more registration fields from the social networking service thereby obviating the need for the user to enter that information.

A splash screen can be displayed. The application can interface with services such as web services to place an ad on the splash screen.

Storage of one or more of account creation date and time IP address of a device on which an account is created and last access date and time.

An OBD e.g. OBD II device activated screen that visually indicates the OBD II device has been activated and is registered to the user s Tripdots mobile application.

The application can direct another device to send a confirmation welcome email to an email address associated with the user. This communication can be app or server driven. App driven examples can send a message to the server related to the user s account which prompts the server to send a message. An example of a server driven message is a message automatically sent via a timer or at the prompting of another service interfacing with the Tripdots network . Hyperlinks can be provided in the email. The links can cause functions to occur on another device when accessed such as flags to be set to enable aspects of the app communicated with the app after selection of the hyperlinks.

A user account can be established on another device and referenced via a database having access limited to an administrator. Establishment and referencing can be reported such as via a log file or a message to a device accessible to an administrator. In some examples the database can be a Microsoft SQL database having designated administrative controls.

FTP and HTTPS networked services can receive the data from web bases service provided such as the following of their equivalents 

Upon communication of a VIN a VIN lookup service such as DataOne Software of Beverly Mass. can provide access to a VIN database and in association with the VIN can communicate specs image and editorial related to the vehicle such as to the mobile device or to a user s account on a web server device accessible by a user.

A OBD or vehicle head unit interface such as one manufactured by Numerex of Atlanta Ga. can communicate OBD device data such as from an TripConnect Device from or to the Tripdots service. In an example the OBD information service operates the TripConnect Device to provide code information to the Tripdots service which can reference the code information with a lookup table either resident at the Tripdots service or accessible via another service which can messages some part of the Tripdots service such as the mobile device with message information associated with the code information.

One or more modules can provide support for Facebook Connect for user registration and Check in support. Upon being provided with user login information a social networking service such as Facebook Connect can communicate an authentication key with the Tripdots service such as to enable the Tripdots service to access other services using the authentication key.

Upon being provided with user login information a network based check in service such as Foursquare of New York N.Y. or Placecast of San Diego Calif. can communicate an authentication key with the Tripdots service such as to enable the Tripdots service to access other services using the authentication key. One or more modules can provide support for FOURSQURE API for Check in support.

By configuring one or more user settings a user can select a unit system under which one or more parameters may be displayed to the user. Example parameters include remaining fuel volume vehicle speed distance traveled by the vehicle preferred currency time zone location and other parameters. User settings can be manually modified in a setting screen of the application. Default settings can be automatically determined such as by using GPS location at the time of creation of the user s account and selecting settings associated with a region including that location.

Vehicle model selection can be automatic. Entering the VIN of the vehicle can expedite of determination of vehicle information such as make model trim and year. Using the VIN and vehicle information a web services provider such as a DataOne can grant access to a source file stored in a database and the application can read the source file and automatically populate the user s account with associated data including but not limited to year make model and a stock OEM photo or another image selected by the user including an image captured by an optical sensor of a mobile device on which the application executes. The data read can be stored in a user s account on another device and can be subdivided by user vehicle. Updated information associated with the VIN such as updated information from a DataOne source file or another service provider can be automatically delivered to the application periodically such as on a weekly basis.

Further settings are associated with the user s personalized profile. A user can select an image stored in a data store of the mobile device or can capture a new image such as by using an optical sensor of the mobile device.

Users can select a unique screen name to identify the user in virtual areas accessible to other devices such as without input of a security code such as a password. The unique screen name or handle can be used in other Tripdots systems.

One of the settings the user can configure is an override of automated GPS previously defined location information. As an example a user can select a country such as via dropdown a language such as via dropdown currency such as via dropdown volume units such as via dropdown possible selections include gallons imperial gallons liters etc. speed and or distance such as via dropdown possible selections include kilometers or miles .

Examples have the same service cloud provide the ability for the user to use the next version of the mobile app on their device with the option to not use the OBD II device to get GPS location and related trip segment data.

A further user setting is an opt in out setting by which the user can choose whether they share location they can control friend invites they can control whether they receive messages from friends and they can control whether they receive. push notifications

Certain examples allow a user to select vehicle maintenance reminder intervals for one or more services. For example a user can select to receive an oil change reminder every three thousand miles or a tire rotation reminder every five thousand miles. This function of the application can enable users to manually enter the servicing intervals. This in turn will power the Reminders functions.

An example app can be powered by our same cloud services and includes the ability to not require the OBD device for trip detail capture. Examples capture the data organize it and deliver data reports to the user or anonymous aggregate vehicle trip data to other partners. This can be independent of using the OBD II device such as via only a mobile device e.g. handset and associated application. Examples can allow for the user to input expense rates and expense rules . Rules can be used to associate a first rate with a first trip for a first trip distance and optionally a second rate with a second trip for a second trip distance and so on. A time based listing of expenses can be displayed . The timing can be week by week or according to another time scale. Information such as contacts businesses location name and trip purpose can be associated with each expense can be also be displayed .

Examples can automate the calculation per for vehicle trip segment purpose contact distance time and calculated expense for employer reimbursement or allowable tax deduction data back up using the purpose contact and related information.

New gauges can be added periodically to the Tripdots app by the Tripdots system providing users with multiple choices for gauges to display such as on their mobile device. A user can buy or select free gauges to be displayed by the Tripdots app. A user can download gauges from a data store to the Tripdots app such as by selecting the gauge through an interface of the Gauge Store displayed on one or both of a mobile device or another computer. Some gauges interact with the TripConnect Device and do not function without the device present. The following describes several gauges.

Certain examples include the cost of operation and external services such as cloud services can capture organize and automatically push reports to the vehicle user.

A cost of operating gauge can show the cost over time of vehicle operation showing cost per week on average or to date cost per Month on average or to date Year on average or to date or the total cost to date. An algorithm used to calculate the cost of ownership can sum car payment information for a period insurance cost for the period fuel purchased during the period and user entered expenses during the period.

A recalls and service bulletins gauge can indicate whether one or both of a recall or service bulletin have been issued that affects the vehicle. As an example the gauge can indicate the number of such documents including the total number and the number that are unread. In an example the documents can be based on a database file lookup such as one performed by a service provider such as a service provider external to the Tripdots system. A user may press the gauge displayed on the mobile device to switch to a recalls display.

An oil change gauge can display time since last oil change or distance since last oil change. Oil change intervals can be user defined or derived from external data supplied by the TripConnect Device or a 3party communicating with the TripConnect Device. Interval starts can be based on user entered information such as when a user enters initial mileage at the start of using the Tripdots system.

A tire service gauges can show time or distance since tires or another vehicle components were purchased or serviced. For example a gauge can show time since tires were purchased or rotated.

A service gauges can be user defined to indicate a countdown time and or distance to a service. A recommended service interval can be input by a user or based on a database file provided by a web service in communication with the Tripdots system. In some examples a VIN lookup service in providing information about the vehicle also can provide information from manufacturer including service intervals. In an example a reminder to perform a service is provided at periodic intervals such as every week or every thousand miles. In some examples a user can select to indicate that the service has been performed or can select to dismiss the reminder at which point a future reminder can be scheduled.

A vehicle efficiency gauge can indicate vehicle efficiency such as average vehicle efficiency for example expressed as miles per gallon. In one example the gauge can divide a specified distance since last distance counter reset overall etc. by a volume of gas purchased.

Certain gauges can interact with the TripConnect Device and operate only when an TripConnect Device has communicated to the Tripdots service that an TripConnect Device has been coupled with the vehicle. One gauge is an enhanced oil change gauge. The enhanced oil change gauge can enable users to set an interval rather than use one provided. Additionally the enhanced oil change gauge can indicate whether onboard diagnostics recommend that the oil be changed.

An enhanced tire monitor can indicate to the user the tire pressure in one or more tires. The pressure can be a measure of tire pressure or whether the tires are below a threshold. The tire pressure information can be provided by onboard diagnostics such as via an TripConnect Device.

An enhanced service gauge can provide the information described above in relation to the service gage but also relay OBD messages such as trouble codes and associated definitions of trouble codes. Additional information associated with an OBD code can be provided by another device using a web service in communication with the application.

A battery gauge can indicate battery state information collected from the vehicle communication bus. For example the battery gauge can indicate voltage for a starting battery.

A temperature gauge can indicate the temperature of one or more vehicle systems including but not limited to water temperature oil temperature battery temperature traction motor temperature cabin temperature brake temperature and other temperatures. Temperatures can be displayed in any user selected dimensional scale including but not limited to F. and C.

Other enhanced gauges include but are not limited to enhanced vehicle efficiency enhanced speed indication and enhanced distance traveled. Each of these can relay or derive indications from a vehicle communication bus such as the OBD communication bus.

Examples can provide reminders to users of the application. Reminders can originate from various sources within the application and can provide the user with information on a schedule and also to focus the attention of the user. Reminders can appear in a portion of the application e.g. a Message Center as well as being pushed to the application or to some other application residing on the device on which the application operates. Examples of other applications include but are not limited to Microsoft Live Tile. In some examples Live Tile can indicate that there are unread reminders are in the Message Center of the application.

Examples can push reminders that can include trip segments and related automatically calculated values for reimbursement record or allowable tax deduction expense.

Examples of reminders include recall reminders such as an NHTSB Recall reminder a service bulletin reminder such as a NHTSB service bulletin reminder and a service reminder a service reminder among others. Forming a portion of the reminder can be text or a gauge that can indicate when the next service is due. In an example the timing of the reminder can be associated with information disseminated by the vehicle manufacture. Such information can be stored on a mobile device on which the application operates or communicated from another device in communication with the mobile device. Reminders can show time until next scheduled oil change. A reminder can also show an indication that a vehicle temperature is out of a specified range. Such a reminder can show how far the temperature is out of the specified range such as by indicating how many degrees out of the range the temperature is from.

A reminder can provide social networking information. For example a reminder can show that an application such as Facebook Friend Connect includes a message. Such a message could be that a particular user wants to be friends i.e. be granted access to the user s social network account such that they can view or contribute information.

One or more modules can provide support for push notification services such as Microsoft push notification services. Push notifications service can include support for subsequent integration of Urban iAirship Rich push notification services compatible with iOS and Android operating systems.

This module can enable users to share their experiences with other Tripdots users. The module can also enable users to share their experiences with other Tripdots users via a social network such as Facebook. A Leader Boards function of the Tripdots embodied as a portion of the Tripdots application operating on a mobile device and or a portion of an application running on another device in communication with the mobile device can allow users to compare vehicle performance data with others Tripdots users.

The Map can display one or more of the following user s current location and the location of other Tripdots users displayed visually on a map such as with each user s Screen Name. Each Tripdots user can be represented by an icon such as their vehicle picture. A check in function can allow users to publish their locations to network based services such as Facebook such as by using a network based social networking service and or Foursquare such as by using a network based check in service . A tracking process can allow an TripConnect Device to log the location such as by logging location coordinates of the TripConnect Device and thereby the vehicle to share with other users such as in real time. This can be shared regardless of whether the application is launched on a mobile device. These functions can be opted into and opted out of by way of several example implementations.

Icons when touched can allow users to communicate with each other if their preferences allow for it. A screen to initiate such communications is illustrated in . Such communications can include one or more of sending messages and sending friend requests. In an example a message event results in a Push notification that can be displayed on a mobile device.

The Tripdots system can perform one or more email functions. An example of the Tripdots system can include an email server that can operate independently from Tripdots corporate email e.g. used by employees and that can for example use the Tripdots.net domain. Examples of email communications that can be used by the Tripdots system include a welcome message a Recall Message including a Requested Recall Report or information pushed to the user and a Password Recovery Message that can optionally include HTML that can be used to direct a web browser or some other HTML reading application on a device such as mobile device to access another device to recover a password. The HTML can optionally include key data to enable the other device to provide the password or to reset the password.

This module determines the status of a device coupled to a vehicle in communication with a communications bus of the vehicle. In an example this module determines the status of an TripConnect Device that is plugged into the OBD II port on the vehicle. Communications and data services between the device and the Tripdots app can be provided by a 3party that can manage the TripConnect Device and that can provide information from the device to a cloud network service. The 3party can include a web service in communication with the device.

In an example the application can display a green status indicator that can indicate that the TripConnect Device has been provisioned and is associated with the Users mobile Tripdots app and is communicating data with the service. In an example TripConnect Device status can set by an Tripdots administrative user at time of device purchase.

The TripConnect Device can communicate information associated with one or more of the following with example units listed in parentheses battery voltage level e.g. volts ignition on event and concomitant engine state and OBD state ignition off event and concomitant engine state and OBD state vehicle efficiency e.g. MPG engine or motor temperatures e.g. degree fuel level e.g. percent of capacity based on a predetermined fuel capacity such as one stored in a database fuel consumption rate and malfunction indicator light code e.g. one or more of the code being communicated an indication that a code is being communicated and information associated with the code such as a standard meaning of the code or a manufacturer specific meaning of the code. vehicle location e.g. GPS latitude over longitude optionally correlated with an address provided by a web service such as Bing and Last Vehicle Stop while running e.g. one or more of time latitude over longitude .

Examples include an account management application. The account management application can be a web application. This management application can include a user interface that supports one or more of access to backend data sets to flag accounts that are enabled with the TripConnect Device account lookup by one or more of Last Name Email Screen Name and Mobile Phone Number e.g. MDN .

The management application can view and edit data fields related to an TripConnect Device including but not limited to International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI TripConnect Device Status TripConnect Logged Data Records TripConnect Device enable disable Service Whether the account is paid Shipping address street city state country postal code phone Date Shipped Date Activated Amount Paid Tax collected Sales Transaction ID and Last time used OBD can send last reported event when in vehicle .

The management application can view and edit data fields related to an Tripdots system including but not limited to a flag to enable or disable TripConnect service user preferences and opt In fields vehicle type user information e.g. user account information last time application used date and or time account created date an option to set user account status flag to one of active cancelled suspended and banned and an option to export data to XLS or CSV for a date range.

These modules can work independently or together as requested by users or managers of the system. App examples can include one or more of the following optional aspects. Within one or more modules text strings can be read from an external table to facilitate subsequent language translations and internationalization. One or more modules can provide support for reduced SQL data usage. Some examples can use a thread local storage. TLS . One or more modules can provide support for path redundancy between two service providers e.g. and . One or more modules can provide terms of service TOS and privacy policy changes encourage user acceptance on next app launch. TOS and privacy copy can be hosted on the web services for copy updates. Examples can provide a free Tripdots app e.g. with no TripConnect Device limited to two vehicles. One or more modules can provide dynamic field labels based on user preferences for international support e.g. miles kilometers . One or more modules can provide dynamic help screens via web services.

To enable the execution of certain functions discussed herein data sets can be integrated into the application including but not limited to automobile lists by manufacturer model year a country list and a language list. Also to enable certain functions the application can initiate send email and send receive messages. An email server can be separately configurable from an existing email e.g. Tripdots.com and can reside on another domain e.g. Tripdots.net.

Location For the purposes of this document and the associated claims the term location is used to refer to a geographic location such as a longitude latitude combination or a street address. The term location is also used within this specification and claims in reference to a physical location associated with a retail outlet e.g. store .

Real time For the purposes of this document and the associated claims the term real time is used to refer to calculations or operations performed on the fly as events occur or input is received by the operable system. However the use of the term real time is not intended to preclude operations that cause some latency between input and response so long as the latency is an unintended consequence induced by the performance characteristics of the machine.

For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1xRTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the communication network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or to other types of networks .

In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 1802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the communication network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network.

In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

A plurality of servers may be coupled via interfaces to the communication network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. These servers may be configured to provide various types of services to the mobile device . For example one or more servers may execute location based service LBS applications which interoperate with software executing on the mobile device to provide LBSs to a user. LBSs can use knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices to provide location specific information recommendations notifications interactive capabilities and or other functionality to a user. For example an LBS application can provide location data to a network based check in system which can then be used to assist in generating offers relevant to the user s current location. Knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices may be obtained through interoperation of the mobile device with a location determination application executing on one or more of the servers . Location information may also be provided by the mobile device without use of a location determination application such as application . In certain examples the mobile device may have some limited location determination capabilities that are augmented by the location determination application . In some examples the servers can also include publication application for providing location aware offers that may be triggered by present or past check ins with the network based check in service . In certain examples location data can be provided to the publication application by the location determination application . In some examples the location data provided by the location determination application can include merchant information e.g. identification of a retail location . In certain examples the location determination application can receive signals via the network to further identify a location. For example a merchant may broadcast a specific IEEE 1802.11 service set identifier SSID that can be interpreted by the location determination application to identify a particular retail location. In another example the merchant may broadcast an identification signal via radio frequency identification RFID near field communication NFC or a similar protocol that can be used by the location determination application .

An Application Programming Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication modules messaging modules location aware modules and look up modules . These are just some of the modules possible and any of the modules disclosed herein can be configured to operate on the application servers . The modules can perform one or more of the functions described in the above description of modules one through six. The application servers are shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . In some examples the application server can access the databases directly without the need for a database server .

The publication modules may provide a number of publication functions and services to users that access the networked system . The messaging modules can send messages or notifications to the users. The location aware modules may provide real time location information to users of the networked system . The location aware modules can be configured to use all of the various communication mechanisms provided by the networked system to indicate user location. The look up modules look up information for use by the user such as by references a user VIN with information about the VIN stored in the database to provide the user with the information about the VIN.

While the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present invention is not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various modules and could also be implemented as standalone systems or software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various modules and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the modules and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud network computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system can further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software. Examples provide for agility in establishing a connection to any telematics or other data customers and partners.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

