---

title: Electronic program guide with related-program search feature
abstract: A system for searching for programs is provided. The system may allow the user to indicate an interest in a given program and to request that the system locate programs related to the given program. The system may locate program listings related to the given program (e.g., based on attributes of the given program), display a list of located listings and allow the user to select listings from the list. For a program selected from the list, the system may tune to the program, may display an information display screen for the program, etc. The system may allow the user to configure and save search parameters, sort related program listings based on the attributes of the given program. For a saved search, the system may allow the user to retrieve the search to locate currently available program listings, receive automatic notifications of programs matching the search, modify the search, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09197943&OS=09197943&RS=09197943
owner: Rovi Guides, Inc.
number: 09197943
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130319
---
This application is a continuation of pending prior application Ser. No. 11 894 769 filed Aug. 20 2007 which is a continuation of patent application Ser. No. 10 852 913 filed May 24 2004 which is a continuation of patent application Ser. No. 09 451 612 filed Nov. 30 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 865 746 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 110 989 filed Dec. 3 1998. All of these prior patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

This invention relates to interactive television systems such as interactive television program guide systems and more particularly to techniques for program searching in these systems.

Cable satellite and broadcast television systems provide a large number of television channels. Typically the number of channels provided by cable and satellite systems is over a hundred and ever increasing. Television viewers have traditionally consulted printed television program schedules to obtain programming information. More recently interactive electronic television program guides have been developed to allow television program information to be displayed on viewer television equipment.

Interactive electronic television program guides program guides typically provide program listings for all channels available in the television system. Some program guides include features for allowing users to search for programs. Such search features are often complex time consuming and cumbersome. For example such search features may require that a user select search parameters such as preferred programming genres before searching for programs that a user navigate through several display screens before being allowed to initiate a search that the user enter at least a portion of a program title to initiate a search etc.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a television system that includes an improved program searching feature.

These and other objects of the invention are accomplished in accordance with the principles of the present invention by providing a system for searching for programs. The system may provide the user with an opportunity to indicate an interest in a given program. The system may provide the user with an opportunity to request that the system locate programs that are related to the given program in which the user indicated an interest. The system may locate program listings that are related to the given program. The located program listings may be related to the given program based on attributes of the given program.

The system may display a list of the located program listings. The system may provide the user with an opportunity to select from the list of related programs. The system may tune to a program selected from the list may display an information display screen for a program selected from the list etc.

The system may provide the user with an opportunity to configure search parameters. For example The system may present the user with a list of attributes for the given program and may allow the user to select one or more attributes and may allow the user to select which logical operations e.g. and or operations are to be performed on the attributes. The system may search television program listings and may display a list of related programs based on the selected attributes.

The system may sort related program listings based on the attributes of the given program. The system may provide the user with an opportunity to save search parameters for use at a later time. The system may display a list of previously saved searches and may provide the user with an opportunity to direct the system to locate currently available program listings based on a saved search from the list. The system may locate currently available listings based on the user selected search parameters from the saved search when the saved search is retrieved. The system may allow the user to delete a saved search. The system may automatically display a notification based on user selected search parameters from a saved search. The system may provide the user with an opportunity to view the user selected search parameters for a saved search.

Further features of the invention its nature and various advantages will be more apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

An illustrative interactive television program guide system in accordance with the present invention is shown in . Main facility includes a program guide database for storing program guide information e.g. television program listings data program related information service listings data service related information pay per view ordering information television program promotional information etc. .

Main facility preferably includes a processor to handle information distribution tasks. Information from database may be transmitted in parallel via communications links such as communications link to multiple television distribution facilities such as television distribution facility . Only one television distribution facility is shown in to avoid over complicating the drawings. Each communications link may be a satellite link a telephone network link a combination of such links or another suitable communications path. Text graphics and video data signals may be transmitted over link . If it is desired to transmit video signals over communications link a relatively high bandwidth link such as a satellite link is generally preferable to a relatively low bandwidth link such as a telephone line.

Television distribution facility is a facility such as a cable system headened a broadcast distribution facility or a satellite television distribution facility for distributing television signals to viewers.

The program guide information transmitted by main facility to television distribution facility includes television program listings data such as program times channels titles descriptions program type genre actors etc. Transmitted program guide information may include pay program data such as pricing information for individual programs and subscription channels time windows for ordering programs and channels telephone numbers for placing orders that cannot be impulse ordered etc.

Television distribution facility may distribute program guide information received from main facility to user television equipment via communications paths . User television equipment may be any suitable equipment for providing television that contains sufficient processing capabilities to monitor viewing activities analyze these activities and display appropriate program listings information for the user.

Communications paths may be cable links fiber optic links satellite links broadcast links or other suitable link or a combination of such links. Any suitable communications scheme may be used to transmit data over paths including in band transmissions out of band transmissions digital transmissions analog transmissions cable transmissions satellite transmissions over the air transmissions multichannel multipoint distribution services MMDS transmissions etc.

Communications paths preferably have sufficient bandwidth to allow television distribution facility to distribute television programming program listings information advertisements and other information to user television equipment . Multiple television and audio channels analog digital or both analog and digital may be provided to user television equipment via communication paths . If desired some of the data may be distributed to user television equipment by one or more distribution facilities that are separate from television distribution facility using communication paths that are at least partly separate from communication paths .

The data distribution technique that is used to distribute data on paths may depend on the type of information that is being distributed. For example text and graphics may be distributed over an out of band channel using an out of band modulator or distributed in the vertical blanking interval lines of an analog video channel. Video information may also be distributed in this way although large quantities of video information may be more efficiently distributed using one or more digital channels or streams on paths . Such digital channels or streams may also be used for distributing text and graphics.

Each user television equipment device has a receiver which is typically a set top box such as set top box . The receiver may also be other suitable television equipment such as an advanced television receiver into which circuitry similar co set top box circuitry has been integrated or a personal computer television PC TV . For illustrative purposes the present invention will be described in the context of user television equipment that uses set top boxes.

Each set top box is typically connected to an optional videocassette recorder so that selected television programs may be recorded. Videocassette recorder is typically connected to a television . To record a program set top box tunes to a particular channel and sends control signals to videocassette recorder e.g. using infrared transmitter that instructs videocassette recorder to start and stop recording at the appropriate times.

Television program listings advertisements programming information and other information may be displayed on television . Each set top box videocassette recorder and television can be controlled by one or more remote controls or any other suitable user input interface such as a wireless keyboard mouse trackball dedicated set of buttons touch screen display remote etc. Remote controls such as remote control have various buttons that can be pressed by the user such as arrow keys e.g. for directing on screen movement of a highlight region for directing scrolling functions etc. an OK select enter or other such selection key for making a selection hereinafter referred to as an OK key channel number keys for selecting a television channel a favorites key to invoke functions related to user preferences a delete key to delete menu items or to express a disinterest in certain user preferences an information key for receiving information on a program hereinafter referred to as an INFO key a specific feature key e.g. a related program search key to invoke program searching etc. For illustrative purposes many aspects of the present are discussed primarily in the context of a user interface being a remote control.

Certain program guide features such as pay program purchasing the purchasing of products or services and data collection functions may require that user television equipment transmit data to television distribution facility over communications paths . If desired such data may be transmitted over telephone lines or other separate communications paths. If features such as these are provided using facilities separate from television distribution facility some of the communications involving user television equipment may be made directly with the separate facility not shown .

If desired an interactive television program guide system may be implemented using a data relay architecture. In such an architecture television distribution facility may serve as a data relay site and user television equipment may be a data destination site. For example as television distribution facility receives information from main facility television distribution facility may continuously or periodically distribute information to user television equipment . In a data relay architecture a program guide implemented on user television equipment may use a database e.g. database for storing program guide information at user television equipment. Program guide information may include program listings and program attributes. Program at may be information such as program title program actors program duration program genre e.g. sports comedy movies etc. program channel scheduled program duration program rating e.g. TV G PG 13 etc. program content rating or critics rating or star rating e.g. one star two stars etc. and other related parameters that can be tagged to a program. Television distribution facility may also poll set top boxes periodically for certain information e.g. pay program account information or information regarding programs that have been purchased and viewed using locally generated authorization techniques .

The features of the present invention may be implemented in a client server arrangement or in a combination client server and data relay arrangement in such arrangements the server e.g. television distribution facility may include a database that may include program listing information.

For clarity the present invention is sometimes described primarily in the context of program guides that are implemented on user television equipment rather than in the context of program guides that are implemented partially on a server and partially on user television equipment or a more fully server based architecture.

Each set top box preferably contains a processor to handle tasks associated with implementing an application on the set top box that assists the user in searching for programs. For example a stand alone application may be provided that supports program searching as described more fully below. If desired these tasks may be implemented using a program guide application. For clarity the present invention will be described primarily in the context of such a program guide application and in the context of a program guide system.

Illustrative steps involved in providing program searching in an interactive television system such as interactive television program guide system of are shown in . Initially at step the program guide may provide a user with an opportunity to request that the system locate programs that are related to a particular program e.g. a program in which the user has indicated an interest using the system . The program guide may at step display a list of programs that are related to the particular program when the user requests that the system locate programs that are related to the particular program. The program guide may include programs in the list based on criteria such as whether a program is related in attribute to the particular program whether a program is a sequel or prequel of the particular program whether a program is in the same program series as the particular program whether a program is a series that is related to the particular program whether a program is related the user selected program in content or subject matter whether a program has the same actor s director category theme or production year as the user selected program etc.

Illustrative steps involved in providing a user with an opportunity to request that a system locate programs related to a given program in an interactive television system such as interactive television program guide system of are shown in . At step the program guide may provide a user with an opportunity to indicate an interest in a given program. The user may indicate an interest in the given program by for example positioning a highlight region on a program listing for the given program tuning the system to the given program selecting that an information display screen for the given program be displayed etc. At step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to request that the system locate programs that are related to the given program.

Illustrative display screens of and may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . As shown in the program guide may display related program find display screen for the program Seinfeld when a user presses a single user interface key while a video for Seinfeld is displayed in display screen . The single user interface key may for example be a search key of a remote control for requesting that the system locate related programs.

If desired as shown in the program guide may display related program find display screen for the program Seinfeld when the user presses a predetermined sequence of user interface keys after navigating a highlight region on a listing for Seinfeld in program listings display screen . The predetermined sequence of user interface keys may for example be pressing a search key and an OK key of a remote control.

A sequence of keys may be used when the user interface device e.g. a remote control does not have a key dedicated to providing the user with an opportunity to request that the system locate related programs.

If desired as shown in the program guide may display related program find display screen for the Knicks v. Wizards basketball game when the user presses a search key of a remote control after navigating a highlight region on the listing for the Knicks v. Wizards basketball game in sports category program listings display screen .

If desired as shown in the program guide may display related program find display screen for Dateline when a user presses a remote control OK key after navigating a highlight region on related programs option of information display screen for Dateline. The program guide may have displayed information display screen for Dateline when for example the user pressed an OK key of a remote control after navigating a highlight region on a Dateline program listing the user pressed an INFO key when video for Dateline is being displayed etc. Examples of program guide systems with information display screen capabilities are provided in Rudnick et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 356 268 filed Jul. 16 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Illustrative steps involved in displaying program listings that are related to a given program in an interactive television system such as interactive television program guide system of are shown in . At step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to indicate an interest in a given program. At step when the user indicates an interest in the given program the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to request that the system locate programs that are related to the given program.

At step the program guide may locate program listings e.g. program listings stored in a program guide database such as database of that are related to the given program. The program guide may locate program listings based on attributes of the given program. For example the program guide may locate program listings for programs that have an attribute that matches an attribute of the given program e.g. a common actor same content same subject matter same series common director same category same theme common production year etc. program listings for programs that have a plurality of attributes matching attributes of the given program program listings for programs that have attributes that are related to the attributes of the given program e.g. prequels sequels similar content similar subject matter related series etc. etc.

At step the program guide may display a display screen or if desired an overlay having listings for programs which are related to the user selected program. From the list the user may find a particular program of interest to the user. The program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to select a program listing from the list at step .

Illustrative program listings display screen illustrative information display screen and illustrative related program find display screen of may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . The program guide may display information display screen for Star Trek The Next Generation Episode Y when a user selects a listing for Star Trek The Next Generation Episode Y in program listings display screen e.g. by pressing an INFO key when a highlight region is positioned on that listing . Information display screen may include a related programs options for requesting to find programs related to Star Trek The Next Generation Episode Y.

The program guide may display related program find display screen when a user selects the related programs option from information display screen . Related program find display screen includes a list of programs related to Star Trek The Next. Generation Episode Y that contains Episode K of Star Trek The Next Generation Episode D of Star Trek Voyager Star Trek Wrath of Khan Episode 21 of Babylon 5 Episode X of Babylon 5 etc. The list may have been sorted based on attributes that were used by the program guide to locate the displayed program listings. For example the list may have been sorted based on which at caused the match or for example based on how many attributes matched. Related program find display screen may include an indicator such as arrow to inform the user that the list may be scrolled to display further listings for related programs that are not currently displayed. Such an indicator may be used when there is insufficient space for displaying all the related programs in a related program find display screen.

Illustrative steps involved in displaying program listings that are related to a given program based on user configured search parameters in an interactive television system such as interactive television program guide system of are shown in . Steps and are the same as steps and of respectively and are discussed above. At step of when the user requests that the system locate programs that are related to a given program the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to configure search parameters for searching for related programs based on attributes of the user selected program. At step the program guide may then locate program listings based on the user configured search parameters. The program guide may locate program listings from program listings stored in a database such as program listings database . The location of the program listings database may depend on the communications arrangement of the interactive television program guide system e.g. in a client server arrangement at least part of the database may be located at a television distribution facility . At step the program guide may display a display screen including on screen listings for programs that are related to the given program based on the user configured search parameters. At step the program guide may sort the located listings for display based on the user configured search parameters. At step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to select one of the displayed programs listings.

Illustrative display screen and illustrative related program find search configuration display screen hereinafter configuration display screen of may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . The program guide may display configuration display screen for an episode of Star Trek The Next Generation when a user presses a single key of a remote control while a video for that episode of Star Trek The Next Generation is being displayed. Configuration display screen may contain an on screen list of attributes for the given program Star Trek The Next Generation. The configuration display screen may contain options for providing the user with an opportunity to assign various importance levels to the on screen program attributes. The option may provide the user with an opportunity to assign different importance levels such as required desired ignored or excluded to the program attributes.

Configuration display screen shows that importance levels may be assigned to the program attributes for the given episode of Star Trek The Next Generation so that when locating related program listings the program guide excludes programs that are Star Trek The Next Generation ignores whether a program is a Star Trek program when deciding whether it matches ignores whether a program is a Star Trek movie when deciding whether it matches requires matching programs to be science fiction requires matching programs to have Patrick Stewart. Configuration display screen may include a search option that may provide the user with an opportunity to direct the program guide system to locate program listings related to the given program based on the program attributes and their assigned importance levels.

Illustrative related program find display screens and of may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . The program guide may display related program find display screen when for example the user selects the search option from configuration display screen of . Display screen may include a list of programs that are related to the given program based on the search parameters of configuration display screen of . The list of related programs in display screen includes the program Lifeforce which is a science fiction program a required attribute starring Patrick Stewart a required attribute and includes three Star Trek movies Insurrection First Contact and Generations that are also science fiction programs starring Patrick Stewart and also starring Jonathan Frakes a desired attribute . Lifeforce may be displayed at the bottom of the list because the other programs more closely match the user configured search parameters.

Display screen may include option for displaying more program listings that are related to Star Trek The Next Generation based on the user configured search parameters. Display screen may include save configuration option that provides the user with an opportunity to save the user configured search parameters. The program guide may display related program find display screen when the user selects save configuration option of display screen . Display screen is the same display screen as display screen except that display screen includes unsave configuration option that provides the user with an opportunity to unsave the user configured search parameters e.g. delete the saved user configured search parameters .

If desired an arrangement such as that shown in may be used to search for related programs. Initially the user may indicate an interest in a given program by selecting a program listing for the given program from an on screen display of program listings by pressing an OK button or other remote control button while tuned to the given program e.g. while tuned to the given program with a set top box or the like by selecting the program from the results of a search etc.

A list of attributes for the given program such as the attribute list of display screen of may be displayed for the user e.g. by the program guide or other interactive application running on the system . A moveable highlight region such as highlight region or other such indicator may be used to provide the user with an opportunity to select attributes of interest to be used in searching for related programs.

As shown in display screen of the user may select one or more attributes e.g. by pressing a remote control OK button or otherwise selecting desired attributes . The system may display a visual indication of which program attributes have been scheduled. For example the system may highlight selected attributes may change their color text font brightness etc. or may display an indicator such as indicators to indicate which program attributes have been selected by the user. When the user highlights search option and presses a remote control OK button or otherwise selects option the system searches for program listings matching the selected program attributes. When plural attributes are selected the search may be performed using a logical AND or a logical OR function. The search results may be displayed using any suitable on screen arrangement and may be selectable for more information automatic tuning etc. if desired.

The arrangement of is merely illustrative. Any suitable arrangement may be used for providing an on screen display of program attributes related to a selected program. The attributes may include program genre s actors rating channel director year produced or any other suitable program attributes. The program attribute information may be provided with the program listings data. In a client server arrangement for example the program attributes may be maintained with program listings data stored on a server located at a cable system headened or at another suitable location . In configurations in which program listings are stored locally on a set top box or other user equipment program attributes may be maintained locally.

Illustrative information display screen and illustrative related program find search configuration display screen hereinafter configuration display screen of may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . The program guide may display information display screen. when a user selects to receive information on the Denver Broncos v. Dallas Cowboys football game. Information display screen may include related programs option that provides the user with an opportunity to request that the system locate programs that are related to the Denver Broncos v. Dallas Cowboys football game. The program guide may display configuration display screen when the user selects the related programs options from information display screen . Configuration display screen may include an on screen list of program attributes that are to be configured by the user.

The on screen program attributes may differ based on the specifics of the given program and based on the category for the given program. For example for a sports category program the on screen list may include attributes that are specific to that sports program and or include attributes that are related to sports programs in general. As shown configuration display screen may include the following attributes other football games NFL games Broncos games Cowboys games any sporting events football related programs programs with John Elway as guest etc. The user may then configure the search parameters to require matching programs to be football games desire NFL games and Broncos games exclude Cowboys games ignore whether a program is a sporting event when deciding whether it matches ignore whether a program is a football related program when deciding whether it matches and ignore whether a program has John Elway as guest when deciding whether it matches.

Illustrative related program find display screen of may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . Display screen may be displayed when a user selects search option from configuration display screen of . Display screen of may include listings that are sorted for display based on the user configured search parameters of configuration display screen . The program guide may display program display screen that contains video of a current program when the user selects a listing for a current program from the program listings contained in related program find display screen . If desired the program guide may display information display screen for a program when the user selects a program listing from the program listings contained in related program find display screen .

If desired the listings in related program find display screen may include program title air time channel rating pay per view information etc.

Illustrative steps for an interactive television system such as interactive television program guide system of involved in providing the illustrative display screens of are shown in . At step the program guide may display a display screen having on screen program listings that are related to a given program. Step may include step in which the program may provide the user with an opportunity to select one of the on screen program listings. At step the program guide may tune to a channel for a current program when the user selects one of the on screen listings that is for a current program. At step the program guide may display an information display screen for a selected on screen listing when the user selects that on screen listing. At step the program guide may return the user to viewing television or to an earlier display screen when the user exits from the display screen having the related on screen program listings e.g. presses an exit or back key of a remote control .

Illustrative steps for an interactive television system such as interactive television program guide system of involved in displaying a list of saved searches are shown in . At step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to select a saved search option. At step the program guide may display a display screen having a list of saved searches when a user selects the saved search option.

Illustrative main menu display screen and illustrative saved searches display screen of may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . The program guide may display main menu display screen to provide a main selection menu for accessing program guide features. Main menu display screen may include saved searches option . The program guide may display saved searches display screen when the user selects saved searches option . Saved searches display screen may include a list of saved searches that are identified on the screen using the given program title for each saved search. When two saved searches are for two programs with the same title the program guide may use numbering to distinguish the listings. If desired the user may have been allowed to name the saved searches. For example the program guide may have provided the user with an opportunity to enter a name e.g. by selecting or entering alphanumeric letters with a user interface device for a search that a user is directing the program guide to save. The saved searches may be selected by the user to provide the user with an opportunity to search current program listings using search parameters that were user configured in an earlier search of program listings.

Illustrative steps for an interactive television system such as interactive television program guide system of involved in displaying a list of saved searches are shown in . At step the program guide may display a display screen having a list of saved searches. At step the program guide may provide a user with an opportunity to select a saved search. At step the program guide may display a list of programs based on a search of currently available program listings with saved search parameters from an earlier search.

At step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to delete a saved search from the list of saved searches. At step the program guide may delete a particular saved search when the user selects to delete that particular saved search.

At step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to select an option to view user configured search parameters for a saved search. At step the program guide may display a display screen having user configured search parameters for a saved search when the user selects to view user configured search parameters for that saved search. If desired step may include a step that provides the user with the opportunity to modify the save searches.

At step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to set or remove an automatic notification for programs that have been located using a saved search. At step the program guide may display a notice that a located program is scheduled to air when the user has selected to receive automatic notifications. If desired step may include a step that provides the user with the opportunity to act on it.

Illustrative saved searches display screen and illustrative related program find display screen of may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . Saved searches display screen may include a list of saved searches and corresponding options including a search option for each saved search. The program guide may display related program find display screen when the users selects the search option for Search . Related program find display screen may include a list of current program listings based on the user configured search parameters for Search .

Illustrative saved searches display screens and of may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . The program guide may display saved searches display screen that includes a delete option for Search . The program guide may display saved searches display screen that does not include Search when the user selects the delete option for Search .

Illustrative display screen and illustrative saved searches display screens and of may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . The program guide may display saved searches display screen that includes an automatic notification option for saved searches including Search . The as notification option for search may initially be off. The program guide may display saved searches display screen that includes an indication that the automatic notification for Search is on when the user selects the automatic notification option for Search from display screen . After the user exits saved searches display screen and resumes watching television the program guide may display automatic notification overlay in display screen when the program guide locates a program e.g. the movie Terminator using the user configured search parameters for Search . If desired the program guide may provide a notification display screen for the located program. The notification may be displayed when the program is about to air or is airing. The overlay may include a tune option for tuning to the channel airing that program an information option for display further information on that program a saved searches option for displaying a saved searches display screen an order option for ordering programs etc.

Illustrative saved searches display screen and illustrative saved search configuration display screen of may be provided used on the illustrative steps of . The program guide may display saved searches display screen having an option that provides the user with an opportunity to view search parameters for saved searches. The program guide may display saved search configuration display screen for Search when the user selects the option to view search parameters for Search . Saved search configuration display screen may display the saved user configured search parameters for Search a modify configuration option to allow the user to adjust the search parameters and a search option to search the current program listings based on the user configured search parameters . If desired the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to modify the settings on this screen by highlighting and changing them rather than having to first select a modify option.

Illustrative saved searches display screen and illustrative saved search configuration display screen of may be provided based on the illustrative steps of . The program guide may display saved searches display screen that includes a list of saved searches when a user selects a saved searches option e.g. saved searches option of . The program guide may display saved search configuration display screen when the user selects a saved search from saved searches display screen . Saved search configuration display screen may include on screen search settings for the selected saved search. The program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to navigate to any of the settings and to modify them. Saved search configuration display screen may include search option that when selected causes the program guide to display a list of matching programs rename option that allows the user to enter a name or modify the name for the selected saved search delete option that when selected deletes the selected save search automatic notification option that provides an automatic notification of programs matching the selected saved search etc. Automatic Notification option may include an indicator to indicate that option is on.

The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

