---

title: Digital rights content services architecture
abstract: A selection of a digital content item is received from a client over a network. A license agreement associated with the selected digital content item is identified based on a content ID of the digital content item, where the license agreement is identified by a license ID. The license agreement includes one or more constraints for accessing the digital content item. A tracking code is generated based on the content ID associated with the selected digital content item, the license ID associated with the identified license agreement, and the user ID associated with the client. The tracking code is inscribed on the digital content item to generate a deliverable content file, where the deliverable content file contains the digital content item therein. The deliverable content file is transmitted to the client over the network, where the tracking code is visible or audible when the digital content item is accessed from the deliverable content file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949156&OS=08949156&RS=08949156
owner: SavoirSoft, Inc.
number: 08949156
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131010
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 716 968 filed Mar. 3 2010 which claims the priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 238 872 filed Sep. 1 2009. The disclosure of the above applications is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to the field of digital rights management systems and more particularly to a platform for publishing and subscribing digital rights content items.

Digital rights management and enforcement is highly desirable in connection with digital content such as digital audio digital video digital text digital data digital multimedia etc. where such digital content is to be distributed to users. Typical modes of distribution include tangible devices such as a magnetic floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical compact disk CD etc. and intangible media such as an electronic bulletin board an electronic network the Internet etc. Upon being received by the user such user renders displays or plays the digital content.

Typically a content owner or rights owner or rights holder such as an author a publisher a broadcaster etc. hereinafter content owner or rights holder wishes to distribute such digital content to a user or recipient in exchange for a license fee or some other consideration. Such content owner given the choice would likely wish to restrict what the user can do with such distributed digital content. For example the content owner may want to restrict the user from copying and re distributing such content to a second user at least in a manner that denies the content owner a license fee from such second user.

In addition the content owner may wish to provide the user with the flexibility to purchase different types of use licenses at different license fees while at the same time holding the user to the terms of whatever type of license is in fact purchased. For example the content owner may wish to allow distributed digital content to be used only a limited number of times only for a certain total time only on a certain type of machine only on a certain type of media player only by a certain type of user etc.

Currently owners of digital rights content have to develop their own unique licensing and protection computer application if they wish to record and enforce distribution and usage rights for their works transferred or displayed by streaming and download services through electronic mails the communication and connectivity networks. This development is costly in time and financial resources and requires not only access to those with technical system competence and know how but access to those who are competent in understanding the complexities of the related laws and practices. There has been a lack of user friendly and efficient platform for a user to publish and or subscribe digital rights content.

According to one aspect of the invention a selection of a digital content item is received from a client over a network where the client is identified by a user identifier ID and the digital content item is identified by a content ID. A license agreement associated with the selected digital content item is identified based on the content ID of the digital content item where the license agreement is identified by a license ID. The license agreement includes one or more constraints for accessing the digital content item. A tracking code is generated based on the content ID associated with the selected digital content item the license ID associated with the identified license agreement and the user ID associated with the client. The tracking code is inscribed on the digital content item to generate a deliverable content file where the deliverable content file contains the digital content item therein. The deliverable content file is transmitted to the client over the network where the tracking code is visible or audible when the digital content item is accessed from the deliverable content file. The tracking code includes information indicating that the digital content item has been specifically delivered to the client.

According to another aspect of the invention a digital content item is received from a client where the client is identified by a user ID. One or more license agreements are presented to the client where each license agreement is identified by a license ID. In response to a selection of a license agreement from the license agreements by the client a content ID is generated based on the user ID and a license ID associated with the selected license agreement. The content ID is generated by ciphering the user ID the license ID and one or more attributes extracted from the digital content item using a cipher key according to a predetermined cipher method. The digital content item is stored in a storage where the digital content item is associated with and identified by the content ID. The digital content item can be browsed and licensed subsequently by another user based on the content ID.

Other features of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description which follows.

Various embodiments and aspects of the inventions will be described with reference to details discussed below and the accompanying drawings will illustrate the various embodiments. The following description and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in conjunction with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment. The processes or methods depicted in the figures that follow are performed by processing logic that comprises hardware e.g. circuitry dedicated logic etc. software or a combination of both. Although the processes are described below in terms of some sequential operations it should be appreciated that some of the operations described may be performed in a different order. Moreover some operations may be performed in parallel rather than sequentially.

According to some embodiments a service framework is provided to record search identify and track usage and ownership rights of copies of digital rights content items for example digitally encoded intellectual property works. The framework is configured to facilitate the digital rights content licensing that allows rights owners or holders and rights users to digitally register and accept respectively the licensing terms and conditions of the content and to assign and track the licensed content items to specific rights owners and users of such protected and licensed content items.

Digital rights content referred herein can be a digitally encoded file of information knowledge or technology which may be incorporated in tangible objects and at the same time be distributed digitally in an unlimited number of copies where the digital rights content is not only embodied in those copies but also in the information knowledge or technology reflected in them as well. Digital rights content may include literacy artistic and scientific works performances of performing artists phonograms and broadcasts inventions in all fields of human endeavor scientific discoveries computer programs industrial designs trademarks service marks and commercial names and designations and all other intellectual activities in the industrial scientific literacy or artistic fields.

Embodiments of the invention provide a service framework that records searches for identifies and tracks usage and ownership rights of copies of digitally encoded digital rights works that have been rendered. One of the purposes supposes a system architecture to facilitate the intellectual property licensing of digitally encoded I.P. Works and suggests a new intellectual property content service framework to support the electronic recording searching distribution and display of digital rights works that allow rights owners and rights users to digitally register and accept respectively the licensing terms and conditions of digital rights works and assign and track the licensed digital rights works to specific rights owners and users of such protected and licensed digital rights works.

In one embodiment digital rights content service architecture also referred to as intellectual property or I.P. Framework may reside on a computer whether it is a part of the operating system OS an application or integrated within other applications. Computer applications tools or other software utilities may use an application program interface API to automate the management searching and tracking of intellectual property rights and digital rights works also referred to as I.P. Works including the granting of derivative rights and the controlled access to and tracking of the resulting I.P. Works derivatives. The I.P. Framework may host several components for searching receiving and processing I.P. Content Data e.g. a digitally encoded file of intellectual property I.P. Work and I.P. rights data such as I.P. rights owner and rights user information I.P. licensing terms and conditions and or I.P. revenue and royalty arrangements etc. refining the I.P. Content Data requesting I.P. Works from an I.P. content supplier for receiving and or delivering I.P. Content Data to a delivery and display client for presentation or storing and for providing data back to the I.P. content supplier. These I.P. Framework components may reside collectively on a single computer or be individually or in some combination distributed across multiple computers.

An application such as a word processor computer aided design CAD program or email client may serve as both a source of I.P. Content Data and as a delivery and display client. Stipulations may be made by the application hosting the delivery and display client with respect to the nature of acceptable I.P. Work and other I.P. Content Data restrictions on use of alternate delivery and display clients as well as specifying supported media.

The I.P. Framework may also maintain rules for revenue and royalty sharing and perform allocation of I.P. licensing revenue and royalties among contracted parties for example the rights owner of the I.P. Work the owner of the application supplying the I.P. Content Data the owner of the I.P. delivery and display client e.g. rendering device and the owner of the I.P. Framework. The I.P. Framework enables hosted components whether they are part of the operating system OS an application or integrated within other applications to address 

A computer application embodiment using the digital rights content service architecture would be able to provide the same information as the paper system who submitted the information what information was submitted when the information was submitted and whether all the relevant information was retrieved while overcoming the paper system s other weaknesses. For example electronic records when properly organized or archived are easier to store search and retrieve than paper and allow for much broader access than paper documents. Such electronic records may be maintained in a way that uses identifiers to associate the documents with a particular matter or file which often allows for easier access. Throughout this application an electronic document is used as an example of a digital rights content item however other types of content may also be applied.

Digital rights content is also referred to as digital rights management DRM content where DRM is a generic term for access control technologies that can be used by hardware manufacturers publishers copyright holders and individuals to try to impose limitations on the usage of digital content and devices. It is also sometimes disparagingly described as Digital Restrictions Management. The term is used to describe any technology which inhibits uses legitimate or otherwise of digital content that were not desired or foreseen by the content provider. It can also refer to restrictions associated with specific instances of digital works or devices.

In one embodiment server includes a publishing platform and a subscription or licensing platform . Publishing platform includes a set of interfaces such as graphical user interfaces GUIs and or application programming interfaces APIs to allow a digital rights owner also referred to as an author rights holder content owner licensor content provider or supplier etc. as a client to register and publish a digital rights content item which is accessible by a content consumer also referred to as a subscriber licensee rights user etc. to purchase or license for usage. Licensing platform includes a set of interfaces such as GUIs and or APIs to allow a consumer to purchase or license a digital rights content item published by a content owner.

In addition server includes content manager access control manager and tracking and delivery manager . Content manager is configured to manage digital rights content items stored in storage device . Access control manager is configured to manage access terms such as license agreements stored in storage device . Tracking and delivery manager is configured to deliver and track a digitally encoded digital rights content item to a user which may be tracked via a tracking code as part of tracking data stored in storage device . Storage device may be configured as a local storage a remote storage over a network or a combination of both.

In one embodiment when a content owner e.g. client wishes to publish a digital right content item the content owner can access via publishing platform server and provide the digital rights content item. In response access control manager is configured to associate one or more access terms obtained from access terms stored in storage device with the content item. For example one or more access terms may be presented to the content owner via publishing platform . The content owner may select one or more of the access terms presented to be associated with the digital rights content item. The content item may then be stored as part of content data in storage including relationship information with the associated access terms. An access term may spell out one or more constraints concerning how the content item is used.

Subsequently according to one embodiment when a user e.g. client wishes to purchase or license a digital rights content item hereafter simply referred to as a content item the user can access via subscription licensing platform to browse and select a particular digital rights content item. In response content manager retrieves the content item and access control manager retrieves one or more access terms associated with the selected content item. The content item and the associated access terms are presented to the user. In order to license the content item the user has to select one of the access terms presented and expressly accept the selected access term. Note that the same content item can be associated with one or more access terms e.g. license agreements .

In response to the acceptance of the access term tracking and delivery manager is configured to generate a tracking code and to inscribe or embed the tracking code also referred to as a tracking identifier or ID with the content item to generate a deliverable content file. The deliverable content file is then delivered to the user. The tracking code can be stored as part of tracking data in storage . In one embodiment the tracking code is inscribed on the content item in a visible or audible form such that on its face any user can identify that the content item is subject to a user or license agreement.

Note that components as shown in are described for illustration purposes only more or fewer components may be utilized. In addition certain components or modules may be implemented as a single component or module or alternatively in multiple components or modules in a distributed manner. Similarly data stored in storage may be stored in a single database or multiple databases. Some of all of the components as shown in may be implemented in software firmware hardware or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment interface module includes publishing platform and licensing platform to allow a user to publish and license a digital rights content item respectively. Interface module may provide a Web interface an API or a network connection to clients for accessing system . Controller module also referred to as a legal consideration manager includes a cipher unit one or more cipher keys and one or more ciphering methods e.g. tabula recta for generating a variety of IDs or codes for a variety of purposes. Controller module may be designed to control and coordinate operations among services modules .

In one embodiment content service module includes a content manager for managing digital rights content items stored in content database . Content service module is also responsible to communicate with one or more remote content providers over a network for managing digital rights content items stored remotely. For example when a search request is received for searching one or more search terms content manager is configured to search content items stored locally in database and content items stored remotely at remote location . Content manager may maintain a data structure similar to the one as shown in which may also be stored in database . Note that referring to for each content item a path and filename may be a local file directory or alternatively a link to a remote storage location e.g. universal resource locator or URL or universal resource indicator or URI .

In one embodiment registration service module also referred to as a rights service module includes a registration manager also referred to as a rights manager for managing user data of registered users e.g. content owners and or consumers stored in user database . Registration service module may also be implemented in communication with or as a part of authentication authorization and accounting AAA module for authenticating and accounting e.g. payments of license fees revenue sharing etc. of the users. AAA module may be maintained locally or remotely e.g. via a remote authentication dial in user service or RADIUS server .

In one embodiment license service module includes a license manager for managing license agreements also simply referred to as licenses stored in license database where each license agreement is assigned with a license ID that uniquely identifies the respective license agreement. The licenses may be standard license agreements previously configured by an administrator of system or customized licenses specified and received from a content owner. License manager may also provide a template of a license to a content owner to dynamically create a license agreement for example via publishing platform . An example of a data structure used in license database is shown in . Tracking service module includes a tracking manager for managing tracking codes stored in tracking database . For each content item to be delivered to a content consumer a tracking code is generated and inscribed on the content item in a visible or audible form for example as shown in .

According to one embodiment in order to publish or license a digital rights content item a user has to register with system and become a member. When a user registers via interface module controller module invokes a service from registration service module to collect certain user data and to create a user profile for the new user. For example username password address birthday etc. may be collected and stored in a corresponding user profile in user database in a secured manner. A user may also specify or register one or more specific devices that are preferred to receive and or capable of rendering certain types of digital rights content items as well as communications methods e.g. Internet protocol or IP addresses and communications protocols to be used with the devices. Similarly a user who wishes to publish a content item may also specify types of devices or communications protocols that are required to receive the published content item.

In addition controller module and or registration manager may generate a user ID for the new user using cipher unit a cipher key from cipher keys and a cipher method from cipher methods . In one embodiment a user ID is generated based on a username birthday and address of the corresponding user. For example according to a particular embodiment a username birthday address and optional date and or time at the point in time are ciphered with one or more cipher keys by a cipher unit in conjunction with a cipher method e.g. tabula recta for example as shown in .

In cryptography a cipher is an algorithm for performing encryption or decryption a series of well defined steps that can be followed as a procedure. The operation of a cipher usually depends on a piece of auxiliary information called a key. The encrypting procedure is varied depending on the key which changes the detailed operation of the algorithm. A key has to be selected before using a cipher to encrypt data. Without knowledge of the key it should be difficult if not nearly impossible to decrypt the resulting cipher text into readable plaintext. A cipher method or algorithm can be a symmetric key algorithm e.g. private key cryptography where the same key is used for encryption and decryption or alternatively it can be an asymmetric key algorithm e.g. public key algorithm where two different keys are used for encryption and decryption.

In one embodiment the cipher operations are performed based on a tabula recta data structure. A tabula recta data structure is a square table of alphabets each row of which is made by shifting the previous one to the left. In order to encrypt a plaintext one locates the row with the first letter to be encrypted and the column with the first letter of the key. The letter where the line and column cross is the ciphertext letter.

A user ID is used by system to uniquely identify a particular user who may be a content provider a content consumer or both. A user ID may also be used to generate other IDs or codes for example for tracking purposes etc. An example of a data structure used in user database is shown in . To decipher a user ID one has to know the cipher key date or time the cipher key was applied and the cipher method used to generate the user ID. Such information may be maintained by registration manager and stored in database for deciphering purposes.

After becoming a member a user can publish a content item via publishing platform by submitting the content item. In response controller module invokes a service from license service module to present one or more license agreements to the user where the license agreement may be retrieved from license database . The user can then select one or more license agreements to be associated with the content item. For each of the selected license agreements a service from content service module is invoked to generate a content ID representing the content item associated with a specific selected license agreement. In one embodiment controller module and or content manager may generate a content ID using cipher unit a cipher key from cipher keys and a cipher method from cipher methods . Note that multiple content IDs may be generated for the same content item under multiple license agreements e.g. content license pairs .

In addition the user may also specify the license fee required to license the respective content item. The license fee may be the same or different for different license agreements associated with the content item. Further system may also suggest a license fee in a current market condition for references using a predetermined algorithm for example in view of content items published by other users and traffic of content consumers via the system. System may also provide a rating of the content item representing a potential market value of the content item based on a variety of factors. Thereafter the content item is stored in content database or remote location and the content item is published under the corresponding content ID associated with a specific license agreement.

In one embodiment a content ID may be generated based on a user ID associated with the content owner a license ID of a license agreement associated with the content item optionally certain data e.g. title extracted from the associated content item and optional date and or time of the publication for example as shown in . In order to decipher a content ID one has to know the cipher key the data time cipher key was applied the cipher method and the license associated with the content item. Such information may be maintained by content manager and stored in database for deciphering purposes.

Once a content item has been published another user e.g. content consumer can browse and search for a specific content item via licensing platform . For example a user can enter via a GUI page one or more terms for searching content items published by system . In response controller module invokes a service from content service module in which content manager is configured to search based on the search terms content items stored locally in database and or remotely in storage location . Once the content item or items are found the items are presented to the user together with one or more license agreements associated with each content item.

Via the licensing platform the user can browse or select each content item and its associated license agreement. Again a single content item may be listed as multiple items each under a different license agreement and identified by a unique content ID. In order to license a content item a user has to accept all terms e.g. general or specific terms and conditions of the associated license agreement. Once the user accepts all terms of the license agreement controller module invokes a service from tracking service module in which tracking manager is configured to generate a tracking code also referred to as a tracking ID to be inscribed on or embedded within the content item being licensed generating a deliverable content file. The tracking code can be stored in tracking database .

In one embodiment a tracking code is generated based on a content ID of a content item being licensed a user ID who licenses the content item and optional date time of the acceptance of the license for example as shown in . In one embodiment controller module and or tracking manager may generate a tracking code using cipher unit a cipher key from cipher keys and a cipher method from cipher methods . In order to decipher a tracking code one has to know the cipher key date time of the acceptance of the license cipher method and optional the structure of the tracking code.

In one embodiment a tracking code is inscribed on or embedded within the content item which forms a deliverable content file. The tracking code may be visible or audible to a user who possesses the deliverable content file. The tracking code may further indicate that the corresponding content item has been licensed e.g. exclusively to a specific user to deter unlicensed usage. For example when a content item as shown in is licensed by a user a tracking code is generated using the techniques set forth above. The tracking code may be inscribed as an invisible and or visible watermark e.g. digital watermark on the content item as shown in .

A process of inscribing digital watermarks is referred to as digital watermarking which is the process of embedding information into a digital signal in a way that is difficult to remove. The signal may be audio pictures or video for example. If the signal is copied then the information is also carried in the copy. A signal may carry several different watermarks at the same time. In visible watermarking the information is visible in the picture or video. Typically the information is text or a logo which identifies the owner of the media. In invisible watermarking information is added as digital data to audio picture or video but it cannot be perceived as such although it may be possible to detect that some amount of information is hidden . The watermark may be intended for widespread use and is thus made easy to retrieve where a party communicates a secret message embedded in the digital signal. As in visible watermarking the objective is to attach ownership or other descriptive information to the signal in a way that is difficult to remove. It is also possible to use hidden embedded information as a means of covert communication between individuals.

One application of watermarking is in copyright protection systems which are intended to prevent or deter unauthorized copying of digital media. In this use a copy device retrieves the watermark from the signal before making a copy the device makes a decision to copy or not depending on the contents of the watermark. Another application is in source tracing. A watermark is embedded into a digital signal at each point of distribution. If a copy of the work is found later then the watermark can be retrieved from the copy and the source of the distribution is known.

In one embodiment the tracking code may also be inscribed at other places such as a footnote and or header area of a licensed document. The tracking code may further identify a user e.g. showing at least a name of the user in plaintext a geographical location in which the content item should be used and or a particular type of devices that should be used to render the content item etc.

Note that modules as shown in are described for purposes of illustration only more or fewer modules may also be implemented. In addition the structure of system may also be described for purposes of illustration only other structure may also be applied. For example modules may be coupled to each other in a flat architecture as any one of the modules can directly or indirectly communicate with another module. Further certain IDs or codes may be generated dynamically statically or both. For example a content ID may be generated at the time of an acceptance of a license to license the content item. In this scenario all content items may be published under their respective file handlers e.g. file directory and their associated license agreements. When a user wishes to license a particular content item by selecting a license agreement a content ID is then generated at the point in time based on the user ID and the license ID of the selected license as well as certain data extracted from the content item e.g. title and a tracking code is generated based on the content ID. Further a content ID user ID and or tracking code may be generated using the same or different cipher key cipher unit and or cipher methods. Other configurations may also exist.

In this example it is assumed that a user attempts to publish a digital rights content item via publish tab . In one embodiment GUI includes a search field that can be used to enter one or more search terms for searching other content items currently published at the system. In addition the user can also specify the scope of the search via field which can be used to limit the searching scope e.g. genres or other categories within which a search is to be conducted.

GUI further includes button or control to publish a new content item and button to view content items that are currently published by the user. When the user activates or clicks button an author license agreement may be displayed where the user has to agree to all terms of the license agreement in order to publish a content item. In one embodiment author license agreement includes a general term and one or more specific terms and conditions where each term and condition has to be expressly accepted by checking the corresponding boxes before moving forward by activating button otherwise the same GUI page may be redisplayed or alternatively an error message may be displayed.

Referring to GUI may be displayed in response to an activation of button of after the user accepts all terms and conditions e.g. access terms of the author license agreement. GUI provides a user interface to collect information regarding the content item to be published from the content owner. In one embodiment GUI includes field to allow the user to specify a title of the content item and field to allow the user to provide a short description about the content item. This information may be used for subsequently searching and browsing by another user. In addition the user may also specify one or more categories under which the content item is published. For example GUI includes field to specify a genre and or field to specify a repertory e.g. sub category associated with a genre selected from field of the content item. Further GUI further includes a tag field to allow a user to enter one or more tags for searching purposes. If the user cannot find a category in fields and GUI further includes field to allow a user to suggest a new category for publishing.

Referring to GUI may be displayed in response to an activation of button of . According to one embodiment GUI includes field to allow a user to specify a content file containing the content item to be published. The user can also browse and attach the file via browse button . In addition GUI includes field to display one or more license agreements to be selected for licensing the content item specified in field . In one embodiment GUI is used to associate one license at a time with a content item. However it will be appreciated that GUI may also be modified or extended to allow a user to select multiple licenses to be associated with the content item. As described above a single content item may be associated with multiple licenses each corresponding to a unique content ID.

Further GUI includes field to allow a user to specify a license fee for licensing the content item specified in field with a license selected from field . It will be appreciated that GUI may also be modified or extended to allow a user to specify additional information associated with the publication of the content item. For example a user may also specify additional constraints of the content item being used such as for example minimum ages of users for licensing types or capabilities of devices for rendering communications mechanisms or protocols used for delivery or geographical locations in which the content item being used etc. Also note that GUI provides a set of standard license agreements prepared by the system for selection. It will be appreciated that GUI may also be modified or extended to allow a user to provide or upload a specific or customized license agreement e.g. prepared by the user or a third party to be associated with the content item. Alternatively GUI may be modified or extended to provide a template to the user to dynamically edit and create a customized license agreement.

Referring now to GUI may be displayed in response to an activation of button of . GUI provides an estimate of cost and revenue sharing information for the content item to be published. In one embodiment GUI includes information indicating the type of the associated license agreement license fee which is specified by the user via field of estimated publication fee which represents the cost or revenue sharing for other entities and estimated royalties for the user as a content owner. The fees may be calculated based on a variety of factors and considerations. For instance estimated publication fees may include credit card processing fees taxes and other assessments and estimated royalties may be the difference between the license fee and the estimated publication fees . In addition GUI further includes information concerning the royalty payment schedule and minimum number of tokens requested. Tokens may be requested by the content owner as gratuity for the content item. In order to complete the publication of the content item the user has to accept the fee schedule displayed by expressly activating acceptance button and thereafter posting the content item by activating posting button . Once a content item has been posted any member can browse and license the content item using techniques as described above. Note that GUIs as shown in are described for illustration purposes only other formats or layouts of the GUIs may also be applied.

The user may also review the content items in the shopping cart via GUI as shown in which may be displayed by activating button of . Referring to GUI includes one or more content items that have been added in the shopping cart in this example content item . In addition a rating or ranking of the content item may also be provided. Rating or ranking are the average cumulative ratings or rankings awarded to the content item by other users who have licensed the same content items. For instance the higher the rating or ranking a content item receives from licensed users the greater the number of stars awarded. The lower the rating or ranking a content item receives from licensed users the fewer the number of start awarded. GUI also includes fee area to display the total amount of fees required for checkout when activating button . Further GUI may further display information regarding how to download the licensed content items at display location . Once the user activates button the content item or items in the shopping cart are checked out and the required fees are withdrawn from the user s account e.g. via the AAA module . For each content item checked out a tracking code is generated and inscribed on the corresponding content item using certain techniques described above which generates a corresponding deliverable file. The deliverable file or files are then delivered to the user for licensed uses. Note that GUIs as shown in are described for illustration purposes only other formats or layouts of the GUIs may also be applied. Other information may also be displayed.

As shown in the computer system which is a form of a data processing system includes a bus or interconnect which is coupled to one or more microprocessors and a ROM a volatile RAM and a non volatile memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory . The bus interconnects these various components together and also interconnects these components and to a display controller and display device as well as to input output I O devices which may be mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers and other devices which are well known in the art.

Typically the input output devices are coupled to the system through input output controllers . The volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continuously in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. The non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive an optical drive or a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. Typically the non volatile memory will also be a random access memory although this is not required.

While shows that the non volatile memory is a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system the present invention may utilize a non volatile memory which is remote from the system such as a network storage device which is coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface. The bus may include one or more buses connected to each other through various bridges controllers and or adapters as is well known in the art. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals. Alternatively I O controller may include an IEEE 1394 adapter also known as FireWire adapter for controlling FireWire devices.

Some portions of the preceding detailed descriptions have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the ways used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as those set forth in the claims below refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the invention also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable medium. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable e.g. computer readable medium includes a machine e.g. a computer readable storage medium e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices etc. etc.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method operations. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description above. In addition embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

