---

title: Orchestration of application updates over a wireless communication network
abstract: Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems and methods for orchestrating application updates over a wireless communication network. In a particular embodiment, a method provides registering a first application with an update controller and, in response to registering the first application, determining first network data update parameters for the first application and determining network constraints on application data updates over a wireless communication network. The method further provides determining when the first application is allowed to request data updates based on the first network data update parameters and the network constraints and notifying the first application of when the first application is allowed to request data updates over the wireless communication network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185514&OS=09185514&RS=09185514
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09185514
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131010
---
Wireless communication devices are now able to install and run numerous applications. Many of the applications can instruct wireless devices to request and receive data updates over a wireless communication network. These data updates may include messages news items current weather information documents or any other type of data that may be used by an application. These data updates may occur at any time including times when an application is executing in the background or when a device is otherwise dormant.

As more applications that request such data updates execute on a wireless device more resources of both the device and the wireless network are used in order to provide each application with a data channel necessary to request and receive updates. Since each application on a device updates on its own accord the device may be constantly requesting data resources from the wireless network in order to provide each individual application with a channel to request updates.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems and methods for orchestrating application updates over a wireless communication network. In a particular embodiment a method provides registering a first application with an update controller and in response to registering the first application determining first network data update parameters for the first application and determining network constraints on application data updates over a wireless communication network. The method further provides determining when the first application is allowed to request data updates based on the first network data update parameters and the network constraints and notifying the first application of when the first application is allowed to request data updates over the wireless communication network.

The following description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. For the purpose of teaching inventive principles some conventional aspects of the best mode may be simplified or omitted. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Thus those skilled in the art will appreciate variations from the best mode that fall within the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described below can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific examples described below but only by the claims and their equivalents.

In operation wireless communication device executes application . Wireless communication device may execute other applications as well but only application will be discussed for clarity. Application is an application that is configured to request and receive data updates from over wireless network . For example application may be an email application that queries an email server over wireless network . Thus application may be configured to periodically transfer requests for new emails i.e. data updates to the email server which in turn transfers any new email messages to application in response to the request.

While a single application requesting periodic data updates would likely not have much of an effect on the resources of wireless device and wireless network e.g. battery and wireless bandwidth as wireless device executes more applications that request data updates more resources will be required to service those updates. Without coordinating these updates resources of wireless device and wireless network are likely not used as efficiently as the resources otherwise could be used. For example multiple applications may all request data updates a different times thereby requiring wireless device to obtain a traffic channel on access node for each of those times whereas coordinating those updates to occur contemporaneously would allow for a single traffic channel request for multiple applications to request data updates.

In response to registering application update controller determines network data update parameters for application and determines network constraints on application data updates over wireless network step . The network data update parameters for application may be received from application as part of the registration process of application in step update controller may query application for the network data update parameters update controller may query a system e.g. an application server over wireless network for the network data update parameters or any other way in which information may be received by a module of a wireless device including combinations thereof. The network data update parameters may indicate a frequency in which application should request data updates a frequency in which a user of application would like to receive data updates an amount of data that is typically exchanged when application updates what type of data is exchanged when application updates or any other information that may be relevant to data update activities of application including combinations thereof.

Update controller may receive the network constraints from wireless network periodically may request the network constraints upon each application registration the network constraints may be preloaded into update controller or any other way in which update controller may receive information from wireless network including combinations thereof. The network constraints may indicate how often or time periods when a particular application or application type should be allowed to update how often or time periods when any of the applications on wireless device are allowed to update times when wireless network can best handle updates e.g. peak and off peak times or any other information that may be relevant to data update activities of applications executing on wireless device including combinations thereof.

Update controller determines when application is allowed to request data updates based on the network data update parameters and the network constraints step . For example update controller may determine when application should update by determining an update time s that satisfy both the network data update parameters and the network constraints. Alternatively if no time s satisfy both the network data update parameters and the network constraints then update controller may choose a time s that best fits the parameters and the constraints. Update controller may be configured to weigh the best fit to better fit the parameters or to better fit the constraints. Update controller may consider the network data update parameters and network constraints in other ways than those mentioned above. Likewise update controller may consider other factors when determining when application is allowed to request data updates. For example update controller may also consider network data update parameters for other applications registered with update controller .

After determining when application is allowed to request data updates update controller notifies application of when application is allowed to request data updates over wireless network step . Application may be notified at each individual time that application is allowed to update may be notified with a schedule of when application is allowed to update or with some other means of notification including combinations thereof. Upon being notified application may perform functions necessary to request data updates over wireless network in accordance with the notification.

Referring back to wireless communication device comprises Radio Frequency RF communication circuitry and an antenna. The RF communication circuitry typically includes an amplifier filter modulator and signal processing circuitry. Wireless communication device may also include a user interface memory device software processing circuitry or some other communication components. Wireless communication device may be a telephone computer e book mobile Internet appliance wireless network interface card media player game console or some other wireless communication apparatus including combinations thereof.

Wireless access node comprises RF communication circuitry and an antenna. The RF communication circuitry typically includes an amplifier filter RF modulator and signal processing circuitry. Wireless access node may also comprise a router server memory device software processing circuitry cabling power supply network communication interface structural support or some other communication apparatus. Wireless access node could be a base station Internet access node telephony service node wireless data access point or some other wireless communication system including combinations thereof.

Communication network comprises access node and other network elements that provide communications services to wireless device through wireless access node . Communication network may comprise switches wireless access nodes Internet routers network gateways application servers computer systems communication links or some other type of communication equipment including combinations thereof.

Wireless link uses the air or space as the transport media. Wireless link may use various protocols such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Only EVDO Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Long Term Evolution LTE Wireless Fidelity WIFI High Speed Packet Access HSPA or some other wireless communication format. Communication link uses metal glass air space or some other material as the transport media. Communication link could use various communication protocols such as Time Division Multiplex TDM Internet Protocol IP Ethernet communication signaling CDMA EVDO WIMAX GSM LTE WIFI HSPA or some other communication format including combinations thereof. Communication link could be a direct link or may include intermediate networks systems or devices.

In operation applications are installed and executing on wireless device . Applications request data updates from systems on Internet or wireless network even when operating in the background. Update controller is a software element also executing on wireless device and is able to control whether applications on wireless device are able to request and receive data updates over wireless network . In some examples update controller is an element of the operating system of wireless device . Applications interact with update controller using an Application Programming Interface API .

As part of the registration processes each of applications informs update controller via the API about parameters either required or preferred for each application to request and receive data updates. The parameters may be preprogrammed into the application or may be selected by a user of wireless device . The parameters for an application may indicate a frequency of updates requested a specific time s in which updates should occur a priority of updates for the application relative to other applications or any other information relevant to data updates for an application.

Update controller also receives update constraints from wireless network regarding any limitations or preferences that wireless network may have on the data update requests from wireless device . The constraints may limit the frequency of data updates specific time s in which updates should occur amount of data that can be exchanged per update or any other information relevant to data updates for applications on a wireless device. In some examples the parameters may include limitations or preferences for a specific applications or application types.

After receiving parameters from applications and from wireless network update controller determines a data update schedule for each of applications . The data update schedule indicates when each of applications is allowed to update. When generating the data update schedule update controller determines update times for each application that satisfy both the application data update parameters and the network constraints. If update controller is not able to satisfy both the parameters and constraints for all applications update controller may use a best fit method to determine an update time the application s whose parameters cannot be satisfied. In those situations update controller may consider application priority in order to determine which application should have its parameters better satisfied. For example data updates for email application may be given priority over data updates for social networking application . Likewise when determining best fit more weight may be given to the network constraints over the application parameters or vice versa.

Once generated update controller transfers at least the portion of the schedule relevant to each of applications to applications i.e. application does not necessarily need to know the schedule for application . Once received by an application the data update schedule may be in place indefinitely or may expire after a period of time so as to require update controller to generate a new schedule periodically. As additional applications register with update controller applications deregister or are otherwise no longer controlled by update controller i.e. have not run in a predetermined amount of time new parameters are received from any one of applications new constraints are received from network or for some other reason update controller may generate a new data update schedule and transfer at least the relevant portions of the new data update schedule to applications .

Data update schedule provides specific times that may be determined by update controller . Specifically in this example email application and social networking application should be updated every 5 minutes news application and weather application should be updated every 15 minutes and calendar application should be updated every 60 minutes. Email application and social networking application may be updated more frequently because their respective parameters request updates every 5 minutes or 5 minutes is the best fit interval that update controller determined would satisfy both parameters from applications and network constraints . Furthermore in this example the update times may come in factors of 5 minutes i.e. 5 15 and 60 because the network constraints provide that wireless device can request updates at particular 5 minute intervals. That is the network constraints may provide that wireless device can request updates at 3 minutes past the hour 8 minutes past 13 minutes past etc. If wireless network provides these constraints to a group of devices including wireless device and provides different constraints to other device e.g. 2 7 12 etc. minutes past then wireless network may be able to ease the chances that too many devices allow data update requests at the same time.

Referring back to once each application has received its respective data update schedule each application requests data updates over wireless network at the time indicated by the data update schedule. Email application and social networking application request data updates at time T news application and weather application request data updates at time T and calendar application requests data updates at time T. It should be further understood that email and social applications may also request data updates at time T and T as those times coincide with time T e.g. every third data update at a 5 minute interval for applications coincides with a 15 minute data update interval . Likewise news and weather applications may request data updates at time T as that time coincides with time T.

In this example update controller transfers an update schedule to each of applications although the individual triggering method of may also be used. In accordance with the schedule email application and social networking application request data updates at time T news application request data updates at time T and calendar application requests data updates at time T. At some other time T weather application attempts to request data updates and update controller rejects that request because weather application is not scheduled to update. Since weather application does not use the API for update controller weather application is unaware that update controller blocked the request and is therefore only aware that the request did not go through. Weather application may continue to request updates and update controller may either block all subsequent update requests or may allow one or more subsequent update requests if the subsequent update requests come at a time that complies with the network constraints. Additionally update controller may allow update requests for weather application if application is running in the foreground and thereby is likely currently being used by a user. Similarly other applications may be allowed to update outside of the scheduled times when those applications are running in the foreground.

It is therefore advantageous for a developer to take advantage of the API for update controller so that applications are aware of when they are allowed to update. Applications can then prepare for their allowed update times and operate accordingly rather than unknowingly having their update requests blocked by update controller .

Wireless communication interface comprises RF communication circuitry and an antenna. The RF communication circuitry typically includes an amplifier filter RF modulator and signal processing circuitry. Wireless communication interface may also include a memory device software processing circuitry or some other communication device. Wireless communication interface may use various protocols such as CDMA EVDO WIMAX GSM LTE WIFI HSPA or some other wireless communication format.

User interface comprises components that interact with a user to receive user inputs and to present media and or information. User interface may include a speaker microphone buttons lights display screen touch screen touch pad scroll wheel communication port or some other user input output apparatus including combinations thereof. User interface may omitted in some examples.

Processing circuitry comprises microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes operating software from memory device . Memory device comprises a non transitory storage medium such as a disk drive flash drive data storage circuitry or some other memory apparatus. Processing circuitry is typically mounted on a circuit board that may also hold memory device and portions of communication interface and user interface . Operating software comprises computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions. Operating software includes first application and update controller . Operating software may further include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software. When executed by processing circuitry operating software directs processing system to operate wireless communication device as described herein.

In particular first application directs processing system to register first application with update controller . In response to registering the first application update controller directs processing system to determine first network data update parameters for first application and determine network constraints on application data updates over a wireless communication network. Update controller further directs processing system to determine when the first application is allowed to request data updates based on the first network data update parameters and the network constraints and notify first application of when first application is allowed to request data updates over the wireless communication network.

The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

