---

title: Systems and methods for efficient traffic offload without service disruption
abstract: Methods, systems, and devices for offloading traffic flows without service disruption are disclosed herein. User equipment (UE) is configured to receive an indication that a current packet data network (PDN) connection can be optimized. The current PDN connection is established over a first PDN gateway (PGW). The UE requests connection over a new PDN connection to a same type of service as the current PDN connection without releasing the connection over the first PGW. The UE routes new traffic flows over a second PGW corresponding to the new PDN connection and routes old traffic flows over the first PGW.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313803&OS=09313803&RS=09313803
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09313803
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130926
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 753 914 filed Jan. 17 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to traffic offloading and more particularly relates to wireless traffic offload without service disruption.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that this disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a base station and a wireless mobile device. Wireless communication system standards and protocols can include the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as Win. In 3GPP radio access networks RANs in LTE systems the base station can include Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and or Radio Network Controllers RNCs in an E UTRAN which communicate with a wireless communication device known as user equipment UE .

Common goals in many wireless networks include mobility continuity of service and or high data rates. In cellular wireless networks mobility of a wireless mobile device often requires coverage of large areas which in turn often requires the use of multiple base stations. As the wireless mobile device moves it may be necessary to hand off the communication services for the wireless mobile device to a different base station. Mobility also often requires selection of new paths through network infrastructure to provide optimal service for the wireless mobile device and or efficiently use network resources.

Turning now to traffic offloading as set forth with respect to selected internet protocol IP traffic offload SIPTO described in 3GPP TS 23.401 will be discussed. illustrates a communication system for delivering wireless communication services to a UE . The communication system includes an evolved packet core EPC and a RAN . The EPC includes an MME which controls serving gateway SGW A and SGW B . Each of the SGWs are connected to two geographically distant PDN gateways PGW which include PGW A and PGW B . The RAN includes a plurality of eNBs which provide radio coverage to the UE . The PGWs include communication nodes which serve as access points to a PDN. In the UE is shown at a first location within coverage of the RAN . The UE connects to an eNB and requests a PDN connection to a specific access point name APN . The MME selects geographically close PGW A in order to optimize the backhaul transport S and S tunnels via the EPC network. The current PDN connection path is illustrated by a dotted line.

In the UE has moved to a new location. As the UE moves away from its initial location it eventually leaves the area e.g. the group of eNBs served by SGW A which leads to an SGW relocation. During the SGW relocation the MME assigns a new SGW specifically SGW B . The traffic flows for the UE are still tunneled to the PGW A as illustrated by PDN connection path . By tunneling the flows through the original PGW continuity of service can be maintained because there is no change in the IP address used by the UE .

At some point the MME may decide that the PDN connection path needs to be streamlined. For example the traffic in is being inefficiently backhauled over PDN connection path to PGW A which is geographically distant from the UE and or SGW B . After determining that the connection needs to be streamlined the MME may initiate deactivation of the PDN connection path and includes a cause value indicating that PDN reactivation is requested. Once the PDN connection path is released the UE requests a new PDN connection to the same APN. During the PDN connection establishment the MME selects a geographically closer PGW for example PGW B for a new PDN connection. The new PDN connection path is illustrated.

The PDN connection reactivation as discussed above implies the release of the IP address hosted on PGW A followed by assignment of a new IP address hosted on PGW B . The PDN deactivation may be initiated by the MME at any time. For example the MME does not take into account what type of traffic flows are currently involved over the old PDN connection path but simply releases it when the connection can be optimized. This unpredictable deactivation can cause disruption to services that have active traffic flows when the PDN deactivation occurs. Given that in the traditional EPC architecture in 3GPP the PGWs reside generally deep within the EPC network the PDN deactivation procedure is generally used infrequently thus minimizing the occurrences of service disruption. Even with the infrequent deactivation continuity of service can be severely affected when SIPTO is initiated.

Furthermore starting with Rel 12 specifications 3GPP has defined SIPTO enhancements known as SIPTO at the Local Network SIPTO LN in which the PGW which may also be referred to as the Local Gateway or LGW resides very close to the network edge. For example the PGW may be collocated with an SGW or in the extreme case can even be collocated with an eNB . An example of such a flat architecture is depicted in that illustrates a system with combined SGW PGW nodes . The eNBs are logically grouped into small clusters corresponding to each SGP PGW node . In one embodiment the IP breakout point PGW can be collocated with an eNB .

In the flat architecture of when the LTE moves from one cluster to another the SGW is relocated. With SIPTO operating as explained above the original PGW can be temporarily preserved by using the inter cluster S interface until the SIPTO feature is invoked by the MME . Invocation of the SIPTO feature will lead to a service disruption. Given the small cluster size of with the PGW at the SGW nodes the SIPTO feature will be invoked more frequently than in a traditional architecture such as those illustrated in . The more frequent use of SIPTO will also increase the occurrences for potential service disruption and may result in severely reduced service continuity particularly with long lived traffic flows such as file downloads or streaming media.

With regard to the foregoing Applicants have developed systems and methods for traffic offloads to reduce service disruptions. While applicable to flat architectures as discussed above the present disclosure is also applicable to more traditional architectures and may improve continuity of services in those networks as well.

In one embodiment a UE receives an indication that a current PDN connection is not optimal. For example the MME may determine that the current connection is routed over a geographically distant PGW and that a more proximal PGW is available to improve the backhaul connection. The PDN connection may be established over a first PGW . The UE requests a second PDN connection for the same APN and the MME takes care to establish the second PDN connection over a second PGW to the same type of service as the current PDN connection without releasing the connection over the first PGW . The UE routes new traffic flows over the second PGW and routes old traffic flows over the first PGW . As used herein the term soft SIPTO refers to the improved methods for traffic offload or improved version of SIPTO. In one embodiment soft SIPTO is given to mean the routing of old traffic flows over a first PDN connection and routing new traffic flows over a second PDN connection. In one embodiment soft SIPTO includes underlying coordination between the UE and network.

Soft SIPTO may include a method for traffic offloads without service disruption which includes an MME indicating to a UE that there is a possibility for optimizing an established PDN connection. The MME may indicate the possibility in response to an SGW relocation after the UE has been handed over to a new cluster corresponding to a new SGW . The MME may indicate this by using non access stratum NAS signaling. Upon reception of this indication from the MME the UE triggers a second PDN connection establishment for the same communication service type. For example the UE may request a second PDN connection to the same APN without releasing the old one and the MME establishes the new PDN connection using a geographically closer PGW . A new IP address hosted on the new PGW is assigned to UE during the process. After establishment of the new PDN connection the UE routes all new traffic flows via the new PDN connection. However the UE keeps the old PDN connection until all flows from the old PDN connection have either died away or have been moved to the new PDN connection e.g. using session initiation protocol SIP mobility . When there are no more active flows the UE may release the old PDN connection.

In one embodiment the above method requires specific UE support and may not be applicable to legacy UEs. For this reason the UE may need to indicate the soft SIPTO support capability when attaching to the network so that the MME knows whether it may invoke the soft SIPTO feature for a specific UE .

The above proposed methods systems and devices allow flat architecture deployments where the IP breakout point i.e. the PGW is close to the radio edge similar to . In order to deal with undesirable consequences of such deployment i.e. increased frequency of potential service disruption the network assists the UEs allowing them to cope with frequent changes of IP address smoothly i.e. without any service disruption .

Although the present disclosure discusses mobile communication and offloading in the context of 3GPP networks and mobile stations one of skill in the art will recognize that the present disclosure applies to all wireless communication networks with their respective mobile stations base station and network infrastructure.

The transceiver component is configured to communicate with a communication system such as through an eNB of the RAN of . The transceiver component may send and receive messages wirelessly using any communication protocol known in the art. In one embodiment the transceiver comprises processing circuitry and an antenna for wirelessly sending and receiving messages.

The connection component establishes and releases a connection with a communication system . In one embodiment the connection component requests a connection to a PDN. The connection component may request a connection to a PDN by specifying an APN corresponding to a service that the UE wishes to use. For example the connection component may send a message using the transceiver component to request a connection to an Internet service an IP multimedia subsystem IMS or other communication service. An MME or other network infrastructure component may then allow the UE to connect to the service. For example an MME may cause the UE to connect to the service using a PDN connection over a specific PGW . The MME may select a specific PGW that efficiently uses network resources of the EPC . For example the UE may be connected to a PGW and or SGW that are geographically close to the UE .

The connection component may also release a connection over a specific PDN connection or service. For example the connection component may release a PDN connection corresponding to a specific service when that service is no longer needed. Similarly the connection component may release an old PDN connection after or prior to establishment of a new PDN connection.

In one embodiment the connection component allows the UE to maintain a first PDN connection while establishing a second PDN connection. For example the connection component may as instructed by the soft SIPTO component and or an MME establish a new PDN connection to a same service type as an old PDN connection while also maintaining the old PDN connection. For example the connection component may request connection over a second PGW to a same type of service as the current PDN connection without releasing the connection over the first PGW . Because the IP address for a UE or a particular service may be hosted at the PGW the UE may have two corresponding IP addresses for the same service. For example the UE may be assigned a first IP address on the first PGW and assigned a second IP address on the second PGW . The connection component may support the usage of two different IP addresses for the same service type.

In one embodiment when requesting connection to the same type of service the connection component requests the PDN connection using the APN used to establish the first PDN connection. For example if the connection component requests using an apn internet APN for the first PDN connection the connection component would also use the same apn internet APN for the new PDN connection.

In another embodiment when requesting connection to the same type of service the connection component requests the PDN connection using a different APN that corresponds to the same type of service. For example if the connection component requests using an apn internet APN for the first PDN connection the connection component would use a different APN for the new PDN connection but the different APN would correspond to the same Internet IMS or other service. In one embodiment the connection component may use a slightly modified version of the same APN. For example if the connection component requests using an apn internet APN for the first PDN connection the connection component would use the apn internet bis APN for the new PDN connection. The connection component may switch between the two or more APNs as the UE travels through a RAN .

The connection component may also release a PDN connection. For example if a service is no longer needed the connection component may release a PDN connection corresponding to that service. When the UE is connected to multiple PDN connections that correspond to the same service the connection component may release a PDN connection that no longer has corresponding IP flows. For example the UE may have an old PDN connection where old IP flows are directed and a new PDN connection where new IP flows are directed. If all the old IP flows expire the connection component may release the old PDN connection. The expiration of the old traffic flows may include a traffic flow ending due to the end of a file download the end of a music stream the end of a video stream and or the transfer of old traffic flows to a new PDN connection.

In one embodiment old traffic flows may be transferred by the UE from the old PDN such as over a first PGW to a new PDN such as over a second PGW . Transfers of IP flows may be performed using various protocols and methods. For example IMS allows for transfer of live IP flows at the application level from one IP address to another without service disruption. In one embodiment transfer of the old traffic flows comprises transferring the old traffic flows using SIP mobility. Generally transfers of IP flows using SIP mobility and or IMS require a delay to set up the transfer and or perform any required messaging. Because soft SIPTO allows for a delay in maintaining a less optimal PDN connection IMS and SIP mobility may have enough time to perform methods for transferring of the IP flows. This can lead to improved service continuity while still allowing for optimization of a backhaul connection.

The capability component provides an indication that the UE is capable of soft SIPTO. Generally a UE and or a network component must support soft SIPTO in order to efficiently transfer IP flows without service disruption. Thus the UE may be required to indicate to an MME or other network infrastructure component whether the UE is capable of soft SIPTO. The UE may provide the indication that the UE is capable of soft SIPTO during connection to the system and or during establishment of a PDN connection of a PGW . The UE may indicate its support for soft SIPTO in any manner that indicates the UE supports maintaining a plurality of PDN connections for a same communication service type. The indication that the UE supports soft SIPTO may then allow an MME or other network infrastructure to enable soft SIPTO services for the UE .

The soft SIPTO component routes old traffic flows over an old PDN connection and routes new traffic flows over a new PDN connection. The old and new traffic flows may correspond to the same service type. The old traffic flows may include traffic flows that are older than the new PDN connection and the new traffic flows may include traffic flows that are newer or were begun at the same time as the new PDN connection. For example the old PDN connection may include a connection over a first PGW that is geographically proximal to a first location of the UE while the new PDN connection may include a connection over a second PGW that is geographically proximal to a second location of the UE . The connection over the second PGW may have been established in response to the movement of the UE to the second location but the connection over the first PGW may have been maintained for already existing IP flows. Keeping old traffic flows on the old PDN connection may allow for continuity of service as to those IP flows until they expire or can be moved to the new PDN connection. Placing new traffic flows on the new PDN connection may allow for optimization of the network and improve speed and throughput for the UE .

In one embodiment the soft SIPTO component receives an indication that a current PDN connection can be optimized. For example the MME or other network infrastructure component may notify the UE that the PDN connection could be optimized to improve network usage. In one embodiment the indication includes an NAS message that indicates that the current PDN connection is less than optimal. The soft SIPTO component may notify the connection component so that the connection component can request and establish a new PDN connection. The soft SIPTO component may also notify the connection component if all the old traffic flows have been transferred or expired so that the connection component may release an old PDN connection.

The capability component determines a capability of a UE with respect to soft SIPTO. For example the capability component may determine that a UE is capable of soft SIPTO based on a message received from the UE and or via another network infrastructure component. In one embodiment the capability component receives an indication that the UE is capable of maintaining two PDN connections for the same service type.

The connection component may manage a connection of the UE by selecting PGW through which a PDN connection for the UE should be established. For example the connection component may select a PGW that is geographically proximate to the UE and or SGW in order to more efficiently handle data for the UE . In one embodiment the connection component may allow the UE to establish multiple PDN connections to the same service type or same APN. For example the connection component may allow the UE to establish a new PDN connection for new traffic flows on a new PGW while maintaining the current PDN connection for old traffic flows with the old PGW .

The optimization component determines whether a current PDN connection can be optimized. For example the optimization component may compare a location of the UE to the locations of one or more PGWs . In one embodiment a PDN connection may include a connection over a PGW and SGW . If a currently used PGW is farther away than another PGW that is available to the UE the optimization component may determine that the PDN connection can be optimized. In one embodiment the optimization component determines whether a current PDN connection can be optimized in response to mobility of the UE . For example if communication for the UE relocates to a new SGW the optimization component may determine whether the current PDN connection can be optimized. In one embodiment the optimization component may determine a new PGW while maintaining the same SGW on which the UE is currently connected.

The UE establishes a PDN connection. In one embodiment the connection component establishes the connection by requesting connection to a specific APN. The MME in response to the request assigns an SGW and PGW to the UE for the PDN connection. The UE is assigned an IP address IP 1 with the assigned PGW . The MME may select the SGW and or the PGW based on the geographic location of the UE . Following establishment of the PDN connection the user plane traffic for the UE is directed over the selected SGW and PGW . illustrates a UE connected to a communication network with the PDN connection directed over SGW A and PGW A .

Also depicted in is the movement of the UE with respect to the RAN . As the UE moves with respect to the RAN the UE may require connection to an eNB outside of an original cluster. In response to the UE mobility the MME relocates the SGW function to a different SGW . illustrates the UE having moved to a new location covered by SGW B instead of SGW A . Following SGW relocation by the MME the user plane traffic for the UE is directed over SGW B and the same PGW specifically PGW A . illustrates the updated PDN connection over SGW B and PGW A . Because the UE still uses PGW A for the PDN connection the UE maintains the same IP address IP 1 .

The MME indicates to the UE that optimization is possible. The MME may provide the indication after a determination that a geographically closer PGW is available for usage by the UE . For example the MME may determine that PGW B is closer to the UE and or SGW A . The MME may determine that data for the UE may be more efficiently backhauled over PGW B . The UE may receive the indication that optimization is available within an NAS message. In one embodiment the MME only indicates that optimization is possible if the UE has indicated that it is capable of soft SIPTO.

The UE requests a new PDN connection in response to the indication that optimization is available. The request for the new PDN connection includes a request for the same service type as the old PDN connection such as updated PDN connection . In one embodiment the request for the PDN connection may include the same APN or a different APN that corresponds to the same service type. The UE maintains the old PDN connection even while requesting the new PDN connection. The MME receives the request and allocates a new PGW for the new PDN connection. In one embodiment the MME allocates the PGW that was identified as geographically close. For example the MME allocates PGW B of . illustrates the old PDN connection and the new PDN connection . Because the new PDN connection is hosted on PGW B the UE is assigned a new IP address IP 2 for the new PDN connection .

Following allocation of the new PDN connection old traffic flows continue to be directed over the old PDN connection specifically SGW B and PGW A using the old IP address IP 1 and new traffic flows are directed over the new PDN connection specifically SGW B and PGW B using the new IP address IP 2 . The old traffic flows may include any traffic flows that existed prior to establishment of the new PDN connection and new traffic flows may include traffic flows that are begun after establishment of the new PDN connection . illustrates the old PDN connection and the new PDN connection . During this time period the UE has active traffic flows and IP addresses corresponding to both PGW A and PGW B .

After establishment of the new PDN connection the UE may begin to transfer old traffic flows from the old IP address IP 1 to the new PDN connection using the new IP address IP 2 . For example the UE may use SIP mobility messaging to transfer an active flow to the new IP address. This may allow for more efficient use of the old traffic flows while maintaining continuity of service. Over time the number of old traffic flows may be reduced until there are no more active traffic flows over the old PDN connection . The old traffic flows may be reduced for example simply because a file has been downloaded a music stream has ended a video stream has ended and or the active downloads have all been transferred to the new PDN connection .

The UE releases the old PDN connection . The UE may release the old PDN connection when all the old traffic flows have either ended or been transferred to the new PDN connection . The UE may release the old PDN connection by sending a message indicating release of the PDN connection or the PGW A . Following release of the old PDN connection all traffic flows for the UE are routed over the new PDN connection .

Further movement of the UE may necessitate repetition of the communication of . For example if the UE continues to move into a cluster corresponding to SGW C a similar process may be repeated to establish a PDN connection over SGW C and or PGW C .

Although the example operation of offloading only illustrated two active PDN connections corresponding to the same service type three or more active PDN connections corresponding to the same service type may also be possible or desirable in some circumstances. For example if the SGW function for the UE is relocated to SGW C before the old flows are transferred or expire the UE may maintain three active PDN connections. In another embodiment a hard SIPTO or release of the old PDN connection may occur if the UE is relocated to a third SGW such as SGW C .

One aspect of wireless networks includes the tracking of data services provided to a specific individual or UE . For example 3GPP defines an aggregate maximum bit rate AMBR for a specific UE or individual. The AMBR may be tracked at multiple levels within the system and multiple types of AMBR may be tracked. For example the UE AMBR is an AMBR for all communication services provided to the specific UE while the APN AMBR is an AMBR for communications corresponding to a specific APN or service type. In 3GPP the UE AMBR is enforced at the eNB level or SGW level while the APN AMBR is enforced at the PGW level. Because the present disclosure allows the UE to connect to multiple PGWs the APN AMBR enforcement at the PGW level may no longer be accurate. Thus modifications to tracking and or enforcement of the APN AMBR may be necessary.

In one embodiment tracking and enforcement of the APN AMBR may be moved closer to the UE so that multiple PDN connections will still be routed through an entity that enforces the APN AMBR. For example the APN AMBR enforcement may be moved to an SGW . Enforcement of the APN AMBR at the SGW level may require modification to the S interface so that the SGW is aware of the APN AMBR value for a specific UE . For example the MME may communicate the APN AMBR to the SGW using an existing or newly defined message of the S interface. In one embodiment enforcement of the APN AMBR may be performed at the eNB . Enforcement of the APN AMBR at the eNB level may require modification to the S interface and or the S MME interface so that the eNB is aware of the APN AMBR value for a specific UE . One or more new or existing messages may be used to communicate the necessary information to the eNB .

In one embodiment the APN AMBR may not be tracked or enforced. For example a UE AMBR may be enforced with respect to the UE but no additional data limits or AMBRs with respect to specific APNs or service types may be imposed.

The method begins and the UE receives an indication that a current PDN connection can be optimized. The UE may receive the message from the MME in the form of NAS messaging. In one embodiment the current PDN connection may include a connection to a specific service type over a first PGW .

The UE requests a new PDN connection. The request may indicate a service type that is the same as an existing PDN connection. In one embodiment the UE may request the new PDN connection with a message that includes the same APN used to establish the current PDN connection. The MME may allocate the new PDN connection over a second PGW .

The UE routes old traffic over the current PDN connection and new traffic over the new PDN connection. For example the UE may route old traffic over a first PGW corresponding to the current PDN connection and route new traffic over a second PGW corresponding to the new PDN connection.

The method begins and the capability component sends an indication that the UE is capable of soft SIPTO. The connection component establishes a second PDN connection in addition to a first PDN connection. For example the trigger for establishing the second PDN connection may be due to the UE receiving a message from an MME indicating optimization is possible which may be due to movement of the UE . The second PDN connection may include a connection with a second PGW . The first PDN connection may include a connection with the first PGW .

The soft SIPTO component sends old traffic flows over a first PGW and new traffic flows over a second PGW . For example the old traffic flows may include traffic flows that were established on an old IP address corresponding to the first PGW . The new traffic flows may be started after establishment of the new PDN connection second PGW and may thus be established on a new IP address corresponding to the second PGW .

The method begins and a capability component receives an indication that a UE is capable of soft SIPTO. An optimization component determines that optimization of a current PDN connection for the UE is possible. The optimization component may determine the optimization of the current PDN connection is possible based on a geographic location of the UE and or one or more network components. For example the optimization component may determine that a PGW of the current PDN connection is geographically distant from the UE while another PGW is geographically closer. Based on the proximity of an available PGW the optimization component may determine that optimization of the current PDN connection is possible.

The MME provides an indication to the UE that optimization is possible. For example the MME may provide an indication that soft SIPTO to improve the PDN connection may be performed.

A connection component establishes a new PDN connection while maintaining the current PDN connection. The MME may select a PGW for the new PDN connection that more efficiently uses network resources and or improves data through put or reduces latency at the UE . The UE may then route new traffic flows over the new PDN connection while routing old traffic flows over the current or old PDN connection.

Example 1 is a UE that includes a capability component a connection component and a soft SIPTO component. The capability component is configured to send an indication that the mobile communication device is capable of soft SIPTO. Soft SIPTO includes maintaining a plurality of PDN connections for a same communication service type. The connection component is configured to in response to an indication from the network establish a second PDN connection in addition to a first PDN connection for a same communication service type. The soft SIPTO component is configured to in response to establishing the second PDN connection send old traffic over a first PDN connection and new traffic over a second PDN connection. The first PDN connection and the second PDN connection correspond to the same communication service type.

In Example 2 the soil SIPTO component of Example 1 can be optionally further configured to release the first PDN connection in response to expiration of the old traffic.

In Example 3 the soft SIPTO component of Examples 1 2 can be optionally further configured to receive NAS messaging indicating that the current PDN connection is less optimal than an available PDN connection. The UE can optionally trigger a second PDN connection establishment for the same communication service type in response to receiving the NAS messaging.

In Example 4 the UE of Examples 1 3 can optionally be assigned a first IP address on the first PDN connection and assigned a second IP address on the second PDN connection.

In Example 5 the connection component of Examples 1 4 can optionally establish the second PDN by requesting connection to the same communication service type using the same APN.

In Example 6 the connection component of Examples 1 5 can optionally establish the second PDN by requesting connection to the same communication service type using a different APN that corresponds to the same communication service type.

In Example 7 the UE of Examples 1 6 can optionally include one or more antennas display screens and or physical input keys.

Example 8 is a mobile communication device configured to receive an indication that a current PDN connection is not optimal. The current PDN connection is established over a first communication node. The mobile communication device is configured to request a new PDN connection for the same communication service type without releasing the connection over the first communication node. The mobile communication device is configured to route new traffic flows over a second communication node corresponding to the new PDN connection and route old traffic flows over the first communication node.

In Example 9 the requesting connection to the same communication service type In Example 8 can optionally include requesting using the same APN.

In Example 10 requesting connection over the new PDN connection of Example 8 9 can optionally include requesting using a APN that corresponds to the same communication service type.

In Example 11 the mobile communication device of Examples 8 10 can be optionally further configured to release the connection over the first communication node in response to expiration of the old traffic flows.

In Example 12 expiration of the old traffic flows in Example 11 can optionally include one or more of an end of a file download an end to a music stream and an end to a video stream.

In Example 13 expiration of the old traffic flows in Example 11 can optionally include a transfer of the old traffic flows to the second PDN connection.

In Example 14 transfer of the old traffic flows in Example 13 can optionally include transferring the old traffic flows using SIP mobility procedures.

Example 15 is an MME that is configured to receive an indication that a UE is capable of soft selected IP traffic offload. The MME is configured to in response to mobility of the UE determine that optimization of a current packet data network connection is possible. The MME is configured to provide an indication to the UE that improvement of the current packet data network connection is available. The MME is configured to establish for the UE a new packet data network connection for the same communication service type for new traffic flows while maintaining the current packet data network connection for old traffic flows.

In Example 16 the MME of Example 15 can optionally establish the new packet data network connection in response to a request from the UE for a connection to the same communication service type.

In Example 17 the new packet data network connection of Examples 15 16 can optionally include a connection through a PGW located proximally to a network edge.

In Example 20 the current packet data network connection of Examples 15 19 can optionally include a connection over a first PGW and the new packet data network connection for the same communication service type can optionally include a connection over a second PGW.

In Example 21 the MME of Examples 15 20 can be optionally located in a network that does not enforce an APN AMBR.

In Example 22 the MME of Examples 15 21 can be optionally located in a network where an APN AMBR is enforced at one of an SGW and an eNB.

Example 23 is a UE comprising circuitry configured to in response to an indication from the network request establishment of a new packet data network PDN connection for new traffic flows while maintaining an old packet data network connection for old active traffic flows. The new packet data network connection and the old packet data network connection both correspond to the same communication service type.

In Example 24 the UE of Example 23 can be optionally further configured to transfer old active traffic flows to the new packet data network connection.

Example 25 is a method for mobile communication device mobility. The method includes sending an indication that the mobile communication device is capable of soft SIPTO wherein soft SIPTO comprises maintaining a plurality of PDN connections for a same communication service type. The method includes in response to an indication from the network establishing a second PDN connection in addition to a first PDN connection for a same communication service type. The method includes in response to establishing the second PDN connection sending old traffic over a first PDN connection and new traffic over a second PDN connection wherein the first PDN connection and the second PDN connection correspond to the same communication service type.

In Example 26 the method of Example 25 can optionally further include releasing the first PDN connection in response to expiration of the old traffic.

In Example 27 the method of Examples 25 26 can optionally further include receiving NAS messaging indicating that the current PDN connection is less optimal and triggering a second PDN connection establishment for the same communication service type in response to receiving the NAS messaging.

In Example 28 the mobile communication device of Examples 25 27 can optionally be assigned a first IP address on the first PDN connection and assigned a second IP address on the second PDN connection.

In Example 29 establishing the second PDN connection in the method of Examples 25 28 can optionally include requesting connection to the same communication service type using the same APN.

In Example 30 establishing the second PDN connection in the method of Examples 25 30 can optionally include requesting connection to the same communication service type using a different APN that corresponds to the same communication service type.

In Example 31 the mobile communication device of Examples 25 30 can optionally include one or more of an antenna a display screen and a physical input key.

Example 32 is a method for mobile communication device mobility that includes receiving an indication that a current PDN connection is not optimal. The current PDN connection is established over a first communication node. The method includes requesting a new PDN connection for the same communication service type without releasing the connection over the first communication node. The method includes routing new traffic flows over a second communication node corresponding to the new PDN connection and route old traffic flows over the first communication node.

In Example 33 requesting a new PDN connection for the same communication service type in Example 32 can optionally include requesting using the same APN.

In Example 34 requesting a new PDN connection for the same communication service type in Example 32 33 can optionally include requesting using a different APN that corresponds to the same communication service type.

In Example 35 the method of Examples 32 34 can optionally further include releasing the connection over the first communication node in response to expiration of the old traffic flows.

In Example 36 the expiration of the old traffic flows in Example 35 can optionally include one or more of an end of a file download an end to a music stream and an end to a video stream.

In Example 37 the expiration of the old traffic flows in Example 35 can optionally include a transfer of the old traffic flows to the second PDN connection.

In Example 38 transfer of the old traffic flows in Example 37 can optionally include transferring the old traffic flows using SIP mobility procedures.

Example 39 is a method for UE mobility. The method includes receiving an indication that the UE is capable of soft selected IP traffic offload. The method includes in response to mobility of the UE determining that optimization of a current packet data network connection is possible. The method includes providing an indication to the UE that improvement of the current packet data network connection is available. The method includes establishing for the UE a new packet data network connection for the same communication service type for new traffic flows while maintaining the current packet data network connection for old traffic flows.

In Example 40 establishing the new packet data network connection in Example 39 can optionally be performed in response to a request from the UE for a connection to the same communication service type.

In Example 41 the new packet data network connection of Examples 39 40 can optionally include a connection through a PGW located proximally to a network edge.

In Example 44 the current packet data network connection of Examples 39 43 can optionally include a connection over a first PGW and the new packet data network connection for the same communication service type can optionally include a connection over a second PGW.

Example 45 is a machine readable storage including machine readable instructions that when executed implement a method or realize an apparatus of Examples 25 44.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The eNB or other base station and UE or other mobile station may also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more components which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component and achieve the stated purpose for the component.

Indeed a component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

