---

title: Irrigation system with ET based seasonal watering adjustment and soil moisture sensor shutoff
abstract: An irrigation system includes at least one environmental sensor, such as a solar radiation sensor that is installed on an irrigation site, and a soil moisture sensor that is also installed on the irrigation site. Programming allows an estimated ET value to be calculated based at least in part on the output signal of the environmental sensor. A pre-programmed watering schedule is automatically modified based on the estimated ET value to thereby conserve water while maintaining the health of plants on the irrigation site. The system automatically inhibits irrigation when an output signal of the soil moisture sensor indicates an amount of moisture in the soil is above a predetermined threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924032&OS=08924032&RS=08924032
owner: Hunter Industries, Inc.
number: 08924032
owner_city: San Marcos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131127
---
Any and all applications for which a foreign or domestic priority claim is identified in the Application Data Sheet as filed with the present application are hereby incorporated by reference under 37 CFR 1.57.

The present invention relates to residential and commercial irrigation systems and more particularly to irrigation controllers that use evapotranspiration ET data in calculating and executing watering schedules.

Electronic irrigation controllers have long been used on residential and commercial sites to water turf and landscaping. They typically comprise a plastic housing that encloses circuitry including a processor that executes a watering program. Watering schedules are typically manually entered or selected by a user with pushbutton and or rotary controls while observing an LCD display. The processor turns a plurality of solenoid actuated valves ON and OFF with solid state switches in accordance with the watering schedules that are carried out by the watering program. The valves deliver water to sprinklers connected by subterranean pipes. There is presently a large demand for conventional irrigation controllers that are easy for users to set up in terms of entering and modifying the watering schedules. One example is the Pro C irrigation controller commercially available from Hunter Industries Inc. the assignee of the subject application. The user simply enters the start times for a selected watering schedule assigns a station to one or more schedules and sets each station to run a predetermined number of minutes to meet the irrigation needs of the site. The problem with conventional irrigation controllers is that they are often set up to provide the maximum amount of irrigation required for the hottest and driest season and then either left that way for the whole year or in some cases the watering schedules are modified once or twice per year by the user. The result is that large amounts of water are wasted. Water is a precious natural resource and there is an increasing need to conserve the same.

In one type of prior art irrigation controller the run cycles times for individual stations can be increased or decreased by pushing more and less watering buttons.

Another conventional irrigation controller of the type that is used in the commercial market typically includes a seasonal adjustment feature. This feature is typically a simple global adjustment implemented by the user that adjusts the overall watering as a percentage of the originally scheduled cycle times. It is common for the seasonal adjustment to vary between a range of about ten percent to about one hundred and fifty percent of the scheduled watering. This is the simplest and most common overall watering adjustment that users of irrigation controllers can effectuate. Users can move the amount of adjustment down to ten to thirty percent in the winter depending on their local requirements. They may run the system at fifty percent during the spring or fall seasons and then at one hundred percent for the summer. The ability to seasonally adjust up to one hundred and fifty percent of the scheduled watering accommodates the occasional heat wave when turf and landscaping require significantly increased watering. The seasonal adjustment feature does not produce the optimum watering schedules because it does not take into consideration all of the ET factors such as soil type plant type slope temperature humidity solar radiation wind speed etc. Instead the seasonal adjustment feature simply adjusts the watering schedules globally to run a longer or shorter period of time based on the existing watering program. When the seasonal adjustment feature is re set on a regular basis a substantial amount of water is conserved and while still providing adequate irrigation in a variety of weather conditions. The problem is that most users forget about the seasonal adjustment feature and do not re set it on a regular basis so a considerable amount of water is still wasted or turf and landscaping die.

In the past irrigation controllers used with turf and landscaping have used ET data to calculate watering schedules based on actual weather conditions. Irrigation controllers that utilize ET data are quite cumbersome to set up and use and require knowledge of horticulture that is lacking with most end users. The typical ET based irrigation controller requires the user to enter the following types of information soil type soil infiltration rates sprinkler precipitation rate plant type slope percentage root zone depth and plant maturity. The controller then receives information either directly or indirectly from a weather station that monitors weather conditions such as amount of rainfall humidity hours of available sunlight amount of solar radiation temperature and wind speed. The typical ET based irrigation controller then automatically calculates an appropriate watering schedule that may change daily based on the weather conditions and individual plant requirements. These changes typically include the number of minutes each irrigation station operates the number of times it operates per day cycles and the number of days between watering. All of these factors are important in achieving the optimum watering schedules for maximum water conservation while maintaining the health of turf and landscaping.

Another device that can be occasionally found connected to an irrigation controller is a soil moisture sensor. There are many methods used but most involve sensors containing spaced apart electrodes placed at root zone depth in the soil to sense the moisture levels in the soil and help control irrigation amounts. There is typically a threshold set manually by the user to determine the wet and dry levels for the soil and plant conditions. However systems with a standalone soil moisture sensor typically are used as a shutoff type device and the sensor does nothing to tell the controller how much or when to irrigate. Typically the homeowner or irrigation professionals must initially set up and then adjust the irrigation periodically during the year to optimize the amount being applied.

While conventional ET based irrigation controllers help to conserve water and maintain plant health over a wide range of weather conditions they are complex and their set up is intimidating to many users. They typically require a locally mounted weather station having a complement of environmental sensors. Such locally mounted weather stations are complex expensive and require frequent maintenance. Instead of receiving data from a locally mounted weather station home owners and property owners can arrange for their ET based irrigation controllers to receive weather data collected by a private company on a daily basis and transmitted to the end user wirelessly via phone lines or over an Internet connection. This reduces the user s up front costs and maintenance challenges but requires an ongoing subscription expense for the life of the ET based irrigation controller. In addition the user must still have a substantial understanding of horticulture to set up the ET based irrigation controller. For these reasons most ET based irrigation controllers are set up by irrigation professionals for a fee. These same irrigation professionals must be called back to the property when changes need to be made because the set up procedures are complex and not intuitive to most users. These challenges are limiting the sale and use of ET based irrigation controllers to a very small minority of irrigation sites. This impairs water conservation efforts that would otherwise occur if ET based irrigation controllers were easier to set up and adjust.

An irrigation system includes at least one environmental sensor such as a solar radiation sensor that is installed on an irrigation site and a soil moisture sensor that is also installed on the irrigation site. Programming allows an estimated ET value to be calculated based at least in part on the output signal of the environmental sensor. A pre programmed watering schedule is automatically modified based on the estimated ET value to thereby conserve water while maintaining the health of plants on the irrigation site. The system automatically inhibits irrigation when an output signal of the soil moisture sensor indicates an amount of moisture in the soil is above a predetermined threshold.

The entire disclosures of the following U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference U.S. Pat. No. 5 097 861 granted Mar. 24 1992 of Hopkins et al. entitled IRRIGATION METHOD AND CONTROL SYSTEM U.S. Pat. No. 5 444 611 granted Aug. 22 1995 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled LAWN AND GARDEN IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. Pat. No. 5 829 678 granted Nov. 3 1998 of Richard E. Hunter et al. entitled SELF CLEANING IRRIGATION REGULATOR VALVE APPARATUS U.S. Pat. No. 6 088 621 granted Jul. 11 2000 also of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled PORTABLE APPARATUS FOR RAPID REPROGRAMMING OF IRRIGATION CONTROLLERS U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 630 granted Apr. 13 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled EXPANDABLE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH OPTIONAL HIGH DENSITY STATION MODULE U.S. Pat. No. 5 179 347 granted Jan. 12 1993 of Alfred J. Hawkins U.S. Pat. No. 6 842 667 granted Jan. 11 2005 of Beutler et al. entitled POSITIVE STATION MODULE LOCKING MECHANISM FOR EXPANDABLE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 883 283 filed Jun. 30 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled HYBRID MODULAR DECODER IRRIGATION CONTROLLER now U.S. Pat. No. 7 069 115 granted Jun. 27 2007 pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 985 425 filed Nov. 9 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. and entitled EVAPOTRANSPIRATION UNIT CONNECTABLE TO IRRIGATION CONTROLLER pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 288 831 filed Nov. 29 2005 of LaMonte D. Porter et al. and entitled EVAPOTRANSPIRATION UNIT FORRE PROGRAMMING AN IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 045 527 filed Jan. 28 2005 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled DISTRIBUTED ARCHITECTURE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER now U.S. Pat. No. 7 245 991 granted Jul. 17 2007 U.S. Pat. No. 7 289 886 of Peter J. Woytowitz granted Oct. 30 2007 entitled MODULAR IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH SEPARATE FIELD VALVE LINE WIRING TERMINALS U.S. Pat. No. 7 225 058 of LaMonte D. Porter granted May 29 2007 entitled MODULAR IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH INDIRECTLY POWERED STATION MODULES pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 458 551 filed Jul. 19 2006 of LaMonte D. Porter et al. entitled IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH INTERCHANGEABLE CONTROL PANEL pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 042 301 filed Mar. 4 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH SELECTABLE WATERING RESTRICTIONS pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 181 894 filed Jul. 29 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled IRRIGATION SYSTEM WITH ET BASED SEASONAL WATERING ADJUSTMENT and pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 251 179 filed Oct. 14 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled IRRIGATION SYSTEM WITH SOIL MOISTURE BASED SEASONAL WATERING ADJUSTMENT. The aforementioned U.S. patents and applications are all assigned to Hunter Industries Inc. the assignee of the subject application except for the patent granted Jan. 12 1993 to Hawkins.

The present invention addresses the hesitancy or inability of users to learn the horticultural factors required to set up a conventional ET based irrigation controller. The irrigation system of the present invention has a familiar manner of entering selecting and modifying its watering schedules and either built in or add on capability to automatically modify its watering schedules based on ET data in order to conserve water and effectively irrigate vegetation throughout the year as weather conditions vary. The user friendly irrigation system of the present invention is capable of achieving for example eighty five percent of the maximum amounts of water that can theoretically be conserved on a given irrigation site but is still able to be used by most non professionals. Therefore a large percentage of users of the irrigation system of the present invention will have a much more beneficial environmental impact than a near perfect solution provided by complex prior art ET based irrigation controllers that might at best be adopted a small percentage of users. Even within the small percentage of users that adopt the full ET device many of them may not be set up correctly because of the complexities of ET and may therefore operate inefficiently.

Referring to in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an irrigation system comprises a stand alone irrigation controller connected via cable to a stand alone ET unit that is in turn connected via cable to a stand alone weather station and the stand alone ET unit that is also connected via cable to a stand alone soil moisture sensor . The controller and ET unit would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although they can have a waterproof construction that allows them to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensor is typically buried in the ground in the irrigation area to be monitored for soil moisture at a depth determined by the plant root zone depth in the irrigation zone. The weather station is typically mounted on an exterior wall gutter post or fence near the garage. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the ET unit the soil moisture sensor and the weather station from the irrigation controller . Data and commands are sent on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. In the event that wireless communications are used with any of the components a battery may be used to power the wireless component. The controller ET unit soil moisture sensor and weather station may exchange data and commands via wireless communication links and . A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110 volt AC duplex outlet supplies twenty four volt AC power to the stand alone irrigation controller . In its preferred form the irrigation system employs a hard wired communication link between the stand alone irrigation controller and the stand alone ET unit that are normally mounted adjacent one another such as on a garage wall a wireless communication link between the stand alone ET unit and the stand alone soil moisture sensor and a wireless communication link between the stand alone ET unit and the stand alone weather station .

Referring to the stand alone irrigation controller may be the Pro C modular irrigation controller commercially available from Hunter Industries Inc. The irrigation controller includes a wall mountable plastic housing structure in the form of a generally box shaped front door hinged along one vertical edge to a generally box shaped back panel . A generally rectangular face pack is removably mounted over the back panel and is normally concealed by the front door when not being accessed for programming. The face pack has an interface in the form of a plurality of manually actuable controls including a rotary knob switch and push button switches as well as slide switch which serves as a sensor by pass switch. Watering schedules consisting of various run and cycle times can be entered by the user by manipulating the rotary knob switch and selected ones of the push button switches in conjunction with observing numbers words and or graphic symbols indicated on a liquid crystal display LCD . Push buttons and are used to increase or decrease the seasonal adjust value. The watering schedules can be a complicated set of run time and cycle algorithms or a portion thereof such as a simple five minute cycle for a single station. Alternatively existing pre programmed watering schedules can be selected such as selected zones every other day. Any or sub combination of manually actuable input devices such as rotary switches dials push buttons slide switches rocker switches toggle switches membrane switches track balls conventional screens touch screens etc. may be used to provide an interface that enables a user to select and or enter a watering schedule. Still another alternative involves uploading watering schedules through the SMART PORT Trademark feature of the irrigation controller more details of which are set forth in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 088 621.

The face pack encloses and supports a printed circuit board not illustrated with a processor for executing and implementing a stored watering program. An electrical connection is made between the face pack and the components in the back panel through a detachable ribbon cable including a plurality of conductors . The circuitry inside the face pack can be powered by a battery to allow a person to remove the face pack un plug the ribbon cable and walk around the lawn garden area or golf course while entering watering schedules or altering pre existing watering schedules.

A processor is mounted on the printed circuit board inside the face pack . A watering program stored in a memory is executable by the processor to enable the processor to generate commands for selectively turning a plurality of solenoid actuated irrigation valves not illustrated ON and OFF in accordance with the selected or entered watering schedule. An example of such an irrigation valve is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 996 608 granted Dec. 7 1999 of Richard E. Hunter et al. entitled DIAPHRAGM VALVE WITH FILTER SCREEN AND MOVEABLE WIPER ELEMENT the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. Said patent is also assigned to Hunter Industries Inc. Typically the solenoid actuated valves are mounted in subterranean plastic boxes not illustrated on the irrigated site.

The processor communicates with removable modules and each containing a circuit that includes a plurality of solid state switches such as triacs. These switches turn twenty four volt AC current ON and OFF to open and close corresponding solenoid actuated valves via connected to dedicated field valve wires and a common return line to screw terminals on the modules and 

In the modules and are shown installed in side by side fashion in station module receptacles formed in the back panel . The module serves as a base module that can turn a master valve ON and OFF in addition to a plurality of separate station valves. Each module includes an outer generally rectangular plastic housing with a slot at its forward end. A small printed circuit board not illustrated within the module housing supports the station module circuit that includes conductive traces that lead to the screw terminals and to V shaped spring type electrical contacts not illustrated that are accessible via the slot in the forward end of the module housing. These V shaped electrical contacts register with corresponding flat electrical contacts on the underside of a relatively large printed circuit board mounted inside the back panel when the module is slid into its corresponding receptacle. The relatively large printed circuit board is referred to as a back plane. The base module and station modules and the back plane are thus electrically and mechanically connected in releasable fashion through a so called card edge connection scheme when the base module and station modules are inserted or plugged into their respective receptacles.

An elongate locking bar can be manually slid up and down in between locked and unlocked positions to secure and un secure the modules and after they have been fully inserted into their respective receptacles. Opposing raised projections formed on the locking bar facilitate sliding the locking bar with a thumb. A pointer extends from one of the raised projections and serves as a position indicator that aligns with LOCKED and UNLOCKED indicia not illustrated molded into the upper surface of another plastic support structure mounted inside back panel .

The receptacles for the modules such as and are partially defined by vertical walls formed on the back panel . Vertical walls also formed on the back panel to provide support to the modules . and . An auxiliary terminal strip provides additional screw terminals for connecting remote sensors and accessories. The term receptacles should be broadly construed as defined in one or more of the patents and pending applications incorporated by reference above.

The processor controls the base module and the station modules in accordance with one or more watering schedules. Serial or multiplexed communication is enabled via the back plane to the base module and to each of the output modules . Suitable synchronous serial data and asynchronous serial data station module circuits are disclosed in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 630. The location of each module in terms of which receptacle it is plugged into is sensed using resistors on the back plane and a comparator which may be an industry standard LM393 device. The face pack receives twenty four volt AC power from the transformer through the back plane and regulates the same via a power supply circuit . The power supply circuit includes a National Semiconductor LM7906 voltage regulator a Microchip Technology MCPIOI 450 power supervisor and a Samsung KA431 voltage regulator. A lithium battery such as an industry standard CR2032 battery is included in the power supply circuit and provides backup power to the micro controller to maintain the internal clock in the event of a power failure. The face pack ribbon cable that connects the face pack and the back plane can be disconnected and a nine volt battery then supplies power to the face pack . This allows a user to remove the face pack from the back panel and enter or modify watering schedules as he or she walks around the irrigation site.

The modules and have contacts on the top sides of their outer plastic housings. When the modules are first plugged into their receptacles only a communication path is established with the processor via the back plane . At this time the locking bar is in its UNLOCKED position. Thereafter when the locking bar is slid to its LOCKED position finger like contacts on the underside of the locking bar register with the contacts on the tops of the modules and to supply twenty four volt AC power to the modules that is switched ON and OFF to the valves that are connected to the modules. The finger like contacts are connected to a common conductor carried by the locking bar . When the locking bar is slid to its LOCKED position projections and tabs that extend from the locking bar and the modules are aligned to prevent withdrawal of the modules. See the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 7 225 058 for further details.

Referring to the stand alone ET unit includes a rectangular outer plastic housing enclosing a printed circuit board not illustrated which supports the electronic circuit of the ET unit that is illustrated in the block diagram of . A microcontroller such as a Microchip PIC 18F65J90 processor executes firmware programming stored internally in the microcontroller and can access external memory such as an industry standard 93AA66A EEPROM memory. The microcontroller can receive DC power from a lithium battery such as an industry standard CR2032 battery which allows accurate time keeping in the event of a power failure. Insulating strip must be manually pulled out to establish an operative connection of the battery . External power for the ET unit is supplied from the transformer via the cable . The twenty four volt AC power from the transformer is supplied to a rectifier filter circuit which supplies twenty four volt DC power to a power regulation circuit which may be an ST Microelectronics L78M24CDT TR regulator. Power from the power regulation circuit is fed to a microcontroller power regulator which may be a Microchip MCP 1702T 25021 CB regulator. Power from the power regulation circuit is also fed to a wired or wireless sensor communications device that may include by way of example an industry standard MMBTA92 for the signal transmitter and an industry standard LM393 comparator for the receiver. Power from the power regulation circuit is also fed to a wired or wireless soil moisture sensor communications device that may include by way of example an industry standard MMBTA92 for the signal transmitter and an industry standard LM393 comparator for the receiver.

The microcontroller interfaces with the SmartPort Trademark connector of the irrigation controller with a combination interface optocoupler which may be provided by an industry standard 4N26S device. The microcontroller interfaces with the weather station illustrated in . An LCD display is mounted in the housing . Three manually actuable controls in the form of push buttons are mounted in the housing for enabling the user to make selections when setting up and modifying the operation of the ET unit in conjunction with information indicated on the display which is facilitated by column and row indicia and respectively affixed to the housing adjacent the horizontal and vertical margins of the display . Row indicia include from top to bottom AM PM 24 hr START and END which are printed painted molded or otherwise applied to the outer plastic housing such as by a sticker. Column indicia are illustrated diagrammatically as A E in due to space constraints in the drawing. A E correspond respectively to TIME TYPE REGION NO WATER and WATER with associated icons which are printed painted molded or otherwise applied to the outer plastic housing such as by a sticker.

The user can modify the run and cycle times for individual stations in the usual manner in the irrigation controller . As an example if one station is watering too much but all of the other stations are watering the correct amount the user can easily reduce the run time of that particular station and balance the system out. Then the ET unit continues modifying the watering schedules executed by the irrigation controller on a global basis as a percentage of run time based on the calculated estimated ET value. Irrigation controllers can be used to control landscape lighting and other non irrigation devices such as decorative water fountains. The controller may have features in it such that the ET unit only modifies the watering schedules of the irrigation controller .

One of the difficulties with conventional weather based controllers is attributable to the difficulty of fine tuning the weather data being received. The environmental sensors may not always be able to be placed in an optimum location on the irrigation site. As an example a solar radiation sensor may be placed in an area that receives late afternoon shade. This will result in the calculation of an abnormally low estimated ET value. The entire irrigation site may receive too little water and the plant material may become stressed from too little water if the watering schedules are based on an abnormally low estimated ET. If a conventional ET based irrigation controller receives input from such an incorrectly located solar radiation sensor the user can attempt to compensate by increasing the run times for each zone by modifying precipitation rates to compensate for the error. This is cumbersome and makes it difficult and frustrating for the user to adjust a conventional ET based irrigation controller for optimum watering.

An advantage of the present invention is the ability to globally modify the watering schedules of the stand alone irrigation controller to compensate for this type of condition. If at any time the user realizes that the property is receiving too little water the user can simply manually change an overall watering adjustment feature. The overall watering adjustment feature is implemented as a simple plus or minus control via actuation of an assigned pair of the push buttons . This changes the reference point of the ET calculation either up or down. After this adjustment is made the ET adjustment executed by the ET unit references the new setting and then compensates for under watering that would otherwise occur. Likewise if the overall watering is too much for the irrigation site the user can simply adjust the overall watering adjustment feature down and create a new lower reference for the automatic ET based adjustments. The overall watering adjustment feature makes it easy for the user to fine tune the system to the particular requirements of the irrigation site. The overall watering adjustment feature can be indicated by showing global adjustment or more less water or similar naming conventions.

The overall watering adjustment feature of the ET unit directly alters the station run times executed by the irrigation controller . This adjustment modifies the estimated maximum expected ET setting which is a constant that is used in the calculating the seasonal adjust value. When the user makes overall watering adjustments by pressing plus or minus push buttons on the ET unit this directly affects the ET value that is used to reset the seasonal adjustment in the host controller . In calculating the estimated ET the microcontroller in the ET unit uses only select data points as variables temperature and solar radiation and uses other data points that may consist of pre programmed constants and or data entered by the user that defines some one or more constants of the site. Estimated ET is calculated using the Penman Monteith formula taking into account geographical data for peak estimated summer ET.

Another feature provided by the ET is an automatic shutdown feature for irrigation that overrides any scheduled run times. There are several times when this is important. A rain sensor in the weather station can send signals to the ET unit representing the occurrence of a rain event. The ET unit will then signal the irrigation controller to shut down and suspend any watering regardless of any scheduled irrigation running or not running at the time. As another example during a freeze or near freeze condition irrigation may produce ice that can be dangerous to people walking or vehicles diving by. Many cities therefore require that irrigation be automatically turned off in the event of a freeze condition. A temperature sensor in the weather station can detect a freeze or near freeze condition and the ET unit will signal the irrigation controller to shut down regardless of any scheduled irrigation running or not running at the time. As another example if the user entered irrigation or scheduled irrigation puts too much water down for a selected root zone this can create a hazardous condition due to water runoff and is also wasteful of water. A soil moisture sensor attached to the ET unit can detect soil moisture levels and send signals to the ET unit representing the level of moisture present in the soil. The ET unit will then determine from these soil moisture levels and user preset limits to selectively inhibit shut down and or suspend any watering to prevent an overwatering condition. If the irrigation site experiences very heavy rainfall and particularly if such rainfall persists for several days the soil becomes saturated. However a hygroscopic rain sensor will dry out in two or three days and the irrigation controller will resume executing its pre programmed watering schedule. Often times the soil is still sufficiently most to support healthy plant growth and additional watering is not needed at this time. The use of a soil moisture sensor to inhibit watering under such circumstances is very advantageous in terms of conserving water.

The automatic shutdown feature of the ET unit is also useful in geographic areas where watering agencies and municipalities impose restrictions that limit the times when irrigation can occur. The user is able to enter a no water window into the ET unit which consists of the times when irrigation is not allowed to take place. When a no water window is entered by the user the ET unit will signal the irrigation controller to shut down regardless of any scheduled irrigation running or not running at the time. The ET unit will then allow the irrigation controller to return to its normal run mode after the selected no water window time has elapsed. The irrigation controller may have sensor input terminals as in the case of the Pro C irrigation controller which can be used to shut down all watering on receipt of a shutdown command from the ET unit .

The weather station includes an outer injection molded plastic housing that encloses a pair of moisture absorbing members in the form of a larger stack of moisture absorbing hygroscopic discs and a smaller stack of moisture absorbing hygroscopic discs. These discs are typically made of untreated wood fibers pressed together into a material that resembles cardboard in appearance. One suitable commercially available hygroscopic material is Kraft Press Board which is made from cellulose pulp.

The stacks and of hygroscopic discs are supported on a common pivot arm for vertical reciprocal motion relative to a vertical shaft that extends through the arm . A coil spring surrounds the shaft and normally pushes the stack upwardly against stop . A torsion spring associated with the pivot axis of the arm lifts the arm and the stack upward to a fixed stop not illustrated . When rain water enters the housing via aperture and funnel the hygroscopic discs of the stacks and absorb water and swell pushing the arm downwardly. A magnet is mounted on one end of the arm . A stationary linear Hall effect sensor mounted on a vertically mounted printed circuit board generates a signal representative of the position of the magnet that is proportional to the amount of rain water that has entered the weather station . The Hall effect sensor may be provided by part number A1395SEHLT T manufactured by Alegro. The small stack absorbs water quickly via funnel so that a rain event will be quickly detected. The large stack dries out slowly so that the rain interrupt signal from the weather station will not be terminated too quickly as the hydroscopic discs dry out. A solar radiation sensor is mounted on one end of the printed circuit board and receives solar radiation through a clear plastic dome snap fit over the uppermost part of the housing . The solar radiation sensor may be an industry standard PDB C 131 photodiode with low current leakage.

The rain sensor including the stacks and of hygroscopic discs magnet and Hall effect sensor is one form of environmental sensor that can be used to generate a signal representative of an environmental condition on a local irrigation site where the irrigation controller is installed. The solar radiation sensor is another form of environmental sensor that can generate another signal representative of another environmental condition on the irrigation site. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various environmental sensors may be used on the site alone or in combination such as a rain sensor a solar radiation sensor a wind speed sensor a humidity sensor a freeze sensor a temperature sensor and so forth.

The basic construction of the soil moisture sensor may be similar to that disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 179 347 granted Jan. 12 1993 to Alfred J. Hawkins entitled ELECTRICAL SENSOR FOR SENSING MOISTURE IN SOILS the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. The aforementioned U.S. patent is assigned to Irrometer Company Inc. Riverside Calif.

A surge protection circuit is also connected to the buffer that may consist of metal oxide varistors and on board spark gaps connected to each output of the H bridge. The buffer is in turn connected to a Microchip PIC18F684 I SL microcontroller .

The communications interface between the microcontroller and the ET unit may be a hard wire interface or more preferably a wireless interface that may comprise a Microchip Technology RFPIC675 transmitter and a Maxim MAX1473 receiver. The transmitter sends signals representative of actual components of soil moisture data within the soil at the root zone to the ET unit . Power for the hard wired soil moisture sensor is derived from the communications link to the ET unit and is fed to an input conditioner which feeds a Microchip MCP1702T 3002E CB power regulator . The power regulator supplies 15 V DC power to the power regulator . Power regulator supplies three volt DC power to the micro controller . When there is a wireless connection power is supplied by a dedicated battery not illustrated installed within the soil moisture sensor.

The ET unit of the present invention utilizes the watering program set up procedures that the installers maintenance personnel and homeowners are already accustomed to using. Start times station run times and days to water are manually entered into the irrigation controller . The user also selects from one of a group of geographical regions in the ET unit . The ET unit then automatically takes over setting of the seasonal adjustment feature of the irrigation controller on a regular basis. Instead of a user changing that feature several times per year the ET unit sets that seasonal adjustment daily depending on current weather conditions gathered on site. Furthermore the ET unit shuts down any scheduled watering by the irrigation controller in response to a rain event or a freeze event and when there is a scheduled no water window. Cost savings are achieved since only a small number of the weather parameters need to be measured. These variables are then used with pre programmed constants to calculate an estimated ET value. This approach allows for cost savings since the stand alone weather station need not have more than a solar radiation sensor a temperature sensor and a rain sensor.

The present invention also provides a unique method of controlling a plurality of valves on an irrigation site. The method includes the steps of selecting and or creating a watering schedule storing the watering schedule and generating a signal representative of an environmental condition on an irrigation site. The method also includes the steps of calculating an estimated ET value based at least in part on the signal and selectively turning a plurality of valves located on the irrigation site ON and OFF in accordance with the watering schedule. The method further includes step of automatically modifying the watering schedule based on the estimated ET value using a seasonal adjust algorithm to thereby conserve water while maintaining the health of plants on the irrigation site. The method further includes the step of inhibiting watering if the moisture sensed by a soil moisture sensor is above a predetermined threshold. Optionally the method of present invention may further include the step of inputting an overall watering adjustment and automatically modifying the watering schedule through the seasonal adjust algorithm based on the estimated ET value as increased or decreased by the inputted overall watering adjustment.

While an embodiment of an irrigation system comprising a stand alone ET unit connected to stand alone irrigation controller and linked to a separate stand alone weather station has been described in detail persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention can be modified in arrangement and detail. The calculated ET values may be down loaded to a controller that changes the irrigation schedule of each individual station rather than changing the seasonal adjust feature. The features and functionality described could be provided by combining the irrigation controller and the ET unit into a single integrated unit in which case a single microcontroller may replace the microcontrollers and . Alternatively the ET unit could be packaged in an ET module designed for removable insertion into a receptacle in a stand alone irrigation controller. The receptacle may be on a housing a backplane or in a control panel of the irrigation controller. The module may be installed in the housing of the irrigation controller and hard wired to the control unit or the electrical connections may be made through the receptacle. The soil moisture sensor need not be the patented Hawkins type specifically identified herein. A wide variety of commercially available soil moisture sensors could be used that include electrodes capacitive plates expanding members switches energy degrading technology and so forth. The moisture threshold setting may be an integral part of the soil moisture sensor. The sensor may supply a simple on off signal instead of a variable signal so there is no threshold setting at the controller. Examples of other soil moistures include United States Patent Application number 2008 0202220 of Schmidt entitled DEVICE FOR MEASURING THERMAL PROPERTIES IN A MEDIUM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING THE MOISTURE CONTENT IN THE MEDIUM published Aug. 28 2008 United States Patent Application number 2008 0202219 of Schmidt entitled DEVICE FOR USING WITH A SENSOR FOR IMPROVING ACCURACY AND SENSOR WITH AN IMPROVED ACCURACY published Aug. 28 2008 United States Patent Application number 2010 0277185 of Hughes entitled SOIL MOISTURE SENSOR published Nov. 4 2010 United States Patent Application number 2010 0251807 of Morton entitled MOISTURE MONITORING DEVICE AND METHOD published Oct. 7 2010. The entire disclosures of the aforementioned Schmidt Hughes and Morton patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference. Therefore the protection afforded the subject invention should only be limited in accordance with the scope of the following claims.

