---

title: Substituted triazine derivatives and use thereof as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase
abstract: The present application relates to novel substituted fused pyrimidines, to processes for their preparation, to their use alone or in combinations for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, and to their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, in particular for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of cardiovascular disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09133191&OS=09133191&RS=09133191
owner: BAYER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY GMBH
number: 09133191
owner_city: Monheim
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130108
---
The present application relates to novel substituted triazines to processes for their preparation to their use alone or in combinations for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases and to their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases in particular for the treatment and or prophylaxis of cardiovascular disorders.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitrogen monoxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyse the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family known to date can be divided into two groups either according to structural features or according to the type of ligands The particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and very probably contain one haem per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory centre. This is of central importance for the activation mechanism. NO can bind to the iron atom of haem and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Haem free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. Carbon monoxide CO is also able to bind to the central iron atom of haem but the stimulation by CO is much less than that by NO.

By forming cGMP and owing to the resulting regulation of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays an important role in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and platelet adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and also in disorders which are based on a disruption of the aforementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system can be suppressed which can lead for example to hypertension platelet activation increased cell proliferation endothelial dysfunction arteriosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure myocardial infarction thromboses stroke and sexual dysfunction.

Owing to the expected high efficiency and low level of side effects a possible NO independent treatment for such disorders by targeting the influence of the cGMP signal pathway in organisms is a promising approach.

Hitherto for the therapeutic stimulation of the soluble guanylate cyclase use has exclusively been made of compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO. The latter is formed by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attack at the central iron atom of haem. In addition to the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment.

In recent years some substances have been described which stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase directly i.e. without prior release of NO such as for example 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 Wu et al. 84 1994 4226 M lsch et al. 120 1997 681 fatty acids Goldberg et al. 252 1977 1279 diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate Pettibone et al. 116 1985 307 isoliquiritigenin Yu et al. 114 1995 1587 and various substituted pyrazole derivatives WO 98 16223 .

As stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase WO 00 06568 and WO 00 06569 disclose fused pyrazole derivatives and WO 03 095451 discloses carbamate substituted 3 pyrimidinylpyrazolopyridines. 3 Pyrimidinylpyrazolopyridines with phenylamide substituents are described in E. M. Becker et al. 1 13 2001. WO 2004 009590 describes pyrazolopyridines with substituted 4 aminopyrimidines for the treatment of CNS disorders. WO 2010 065275 discloses substituted pyrrolo and dihydropyridopyrimidines as sGC activators.

It was an object of the present invention to provide novel substances which act as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase and which have an identical or improved therapeutic profile compared to the compounds known from the prior art for example with respect to their in vivo properties such as their pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic behaviour and or their metabolic profile and or their dose effect relationship.

Ris difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl C C alkylsulphonylamino C C alkoxycarbonylamino phenyl or 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl 

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts the compounds encompassed by formula I of the formulae mentioned below and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts and the compounds encompassed by formula I and mentioned below as working examples and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts if the compounds encompassed by formula I and mentioned below are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

Preferred salts in the context of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. Also encompassed are salts which are not themselves suitable for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for isolation or purification of the compounds according to the invention.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulphonic acids for example salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulphuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulphonic acid ethanesulphonic acid toluenesulphonic acid benzenesulphonic acid naphthalenedisulphonic acid formic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases by way of example and with preference alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 carbon atoms by way of example and with preference ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methylmorpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

In the context of the invention solvates is the term used to refer to those forms of the compounds according to the invention which in the solid or liquid state form a complex by coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates in which the coordination is with water. Preferred solvates in the context of the present invention are hydrates.

The compounds according to the invention may depending on their structure exist in different stereoisomeric forms i.e. in the form of configurational isomers or else optionally as conformational isomers enantiomers and or diastereomers including those in the case of atropisomers . The present invention therefore encompasses the enantiomers and diastereomers and the respective mixtures thereof. The stereoisomerically uniform constituents can be isolated from such mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in a known manner chromatography processes are preferably used for this in particular HPLC chromatography on an achiral or chiral phase.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention encompasses all the tautomeric forms.

The present invention also encompasses all suitable isotopic variants of the compounds according to the invention. An isotopic variant of a compound according to the invention is understood here as meaning a compound in which at least one atom within the compound according to the invention has been exchanged for another atom of the same atomic number but with a different atomic mass than the atomic mass which usually or predominantly occurs in nature. Examples of isotopes which can be incorporated into a compound according to the invention are those of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulphur fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine such as H deuterium H tritium C C N O O P P S S S S F Cl Br I I I and I. Particular isotopic variants of a compound according to the invention especially those in which one or more radioactive isotopes have been incorporated may be beneficial for example for the examination of the mechanism of action or of the active ingredient distribution in the body due to comparatively easy preparability and detectability especially compounds labelled with H or C isotopes are suitable for this purpose. Furthermore the incorporation of isotopes for example of deuterium can lead to particular therapeutic advantages as a consequence of greater metabolic stability of the compound for example an extension of the half life in the body or a reduction in the active dose required such modifications of the compounds according to the invention may therefore in some cases also constitute a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Isotopic variants of the compounds according to the invention can be prepared by the processes known to a person skilled in the art for example by the methods described below and the procedures described in the working examples by using corresponding isotopic modifications of the respective reagents and or starting compounds.

Moreover the present invention also encompasses prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. Here the term prodrugs refers to compounds which for their part can be biologically active or inactive but are converted for example metabolically or hydrolytically into compounds according to the invention during their dwell time in the body.

In the context of the present invention the substituents unless specified otherwise each have the following meaning 

Alkyl in the context of the invention is a linear or branched alkyl radical having the number of carbon atoms specified in each case. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl 1 methylpropyl tert butyl n pentyl isopentyl 1 ethylpropyl 1 methylbutyl 2 methylbutyl 3 methylbutyl n hexyl 1 methylpentyl 2 methylpentyl 3 methylpentyl 4 methylpentyl 3 3 dimethylbutyl 1 ethylbutyl and 2 ethylbutyl.

5 to 7 membered saturated or partly unsaturated carbocycle in the context of the present invention is a saturated or partly unsaturated cyclic alkyl radical having the number of carbon atoms specified in each case. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl and cycloheptenyl.

Cycloalkyl or carbocycle in the context of the invention is a monocyclic saturated alkyl radical having the number of carbon atoms specified in each case. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl.

Alkoxy in the context of the invention is a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 6 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The following may be mentioned by way of example methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy 1 methylpropoxy n butoxy iso butoxy tert butoxy n pentoxy isopentoxy 1 ethylpropoxy 1 methylbutoxy 2 methylbutoxy 3 methylbutoxy and n hexoxy. Preference is given to a linear or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy 1 methylpropoxy n butoxy isobutoxy tert butoxy.

Alkoxycarbonylamino in the context of the invention is an amino group having a linear or branched alkoxycarbonyl substituent which has 1 to 4 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain and is attached to the nitrogen atom via the carbonyl group. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methoxycarbonylamino ethoxycarbonylamino propoxycarbonylamino n butoxycarbonylamino isobutoxycarbonylamino and tert butoxycarbonylamino.

Alkylsulphonylamino in the context of the invention is an amino group having a linear or branched alkylsulphonyl substituent which has 1 to 6 carbon atoms and is attached to the nitrogen atom via the sulphonyl group. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methylsulphonylamino ethylsulphonylamino n propylsulphonylamino isopropylsulphonylamino n butylsulphonylamino tert butylsulphonylamino n pentylsulphonylamino and n hexylsulphonylamino.

5 to 7 membered saturated or partly unsaturated heterocycle in the context of the invention is a saturated or partly unsaturated heterocycle which has a total of 5 to 7 ring atoms and contains one ring heteroatom from the series N O S SO and or SO. The following may be mentioned by way of example pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyrrolyl dihydropyridyl.

5 or 6 membered heteroaryl in the context of the invention is a monocyclic aromatic heterocycle heteroaromatic which has a total of 5 or 6 ring atoms contains up to three identical or different ring heteroatoms from the series N O and or S and is attached via a ring carbon atom or optionally via a ring nitrogen atom. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference furyl pyrrolyl thienyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl and triazinyl. Preference is given to pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl and triazinyl.

8 or 9 membered heteroaryl in the context of the invention is a bicyclic aromatic or partly unsaturated heterocycle which has a total of 8 or 9 ring atoms and contains at least two nitrogen atoms and up to two further identical or different ring heteroatoms from the series N O and or S. The following may be mentioned by way of example dihydrothienopyrazolyl thienopyrazolyl pyrazolopyrazolyl imidazothiazolyl tetrahydrocyclopentapyrazolyl dihydrocyclopentapyrazolyl tetrahydroindazolyl dihydroindazolyl indazolyl pyrazolopyridinyl tetrahydropyrazolopyridinyl pyrazolopyrimidinyl imidazopyridinyl and imidazopyridazinyl.

Halogen in the context of the invention is fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Preference is given to bromine and iodine.

An oxo group in the context of the invention is an oxygen atom attached to a carbon atom via a double bond.

In the formula of the group which may represent Q the end point of the line marked by the symbol or does not represent a carbon atom or a CHgroup but is part of the bond to the respectively indicated atom to which Q is bonded.

If radicals in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the radicals may be mono or polysubstituted unless specified otherwise. In the context of the present invention it is the case that for all radicals which occur more than once their meaning is independent of the others. Substitution by one two or three identical or different substituents is preferred.

In the context of the present invention the term treatment or treating includes inhibition retardation checking alleviating attenuating restricting reducing suppressing repelling or healing of a disease a condition a disorder an injury or a health problem or the development the course or the progression of such states and or the symptoms of such states. The term therapy is understood here to be synonymous with the term treatment .

The terms prevention prophylaxis or preclusion are used synonymously in the context of the present invention and refer to the avoidance or reduction of the risk of contracting experiencing suffering from or having a disease a condition a disorder an injury or a health problem or a development or progression of such states and or the symptoms of such states.

The treatment or prevention of a disease a condition a disorder an injury or a health problem may be partial or complete.

the ring Qtogether with the atoms to which it is bonded forms a 5 to 7 membered saturated or partly unsaturated carbocycle or a 5 to 7 membered saturated or partly unsaturated heterocycle 

Ris trifluoromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 3 3 3 trifluoroprop 1 yl 2 2 3 3 3 pentafluoroprop 1 yl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl phenyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl or pyridazinyl 

Ris difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl methylsulphonylamino methoxycarbonylamino phenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl or pyridyl 

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

Ris 3 3 3 trifluoroprop 1 yl 2 2 3 3 tetrafluoroprop 1 yl 2 2 3 3 3 pentafluoroprop 1 yl phenyl or pyridyl 

Ris difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl methylsulphonylamino methoxycarbonylamino phenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl or pyridyl 

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

The individual radical definitions specified in the particular combinations or preferred combinations of radicals are independently of the particular combinations of the radicals specified also replaced as desired by radical definitions of other combinations.

Particular preference is given to combinations of two or more of the preferred ranges mentioned above.

The invention further provides a process for preparing the compounds of the formula I according to the invention characterized in that

 C a compound of the formula I B is converted with phosphoryl chloride into a compound of the formula VI 

and the resulting compounds of the formulae I A I B and I C are where appropriate converted with the appropriate i solvents and or ii acids or bases into their solvates salts and or solvates of the salts.

Process step II III I A is carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions. Suitable solvents are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or else water. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to acetonitrile.

Optionally the conversion II III I A can be effected in the presence of a suitable palladium and or copper catalyst. A suitable palladium catalyst is for example palladium on activated carbon palladium II acetate tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride bis acetonitrile palladium II chloride and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II and the corresponding dichloromethane complex optionally in conjunction with additional phosphane ligands for example 2 biphenyl di tert butylphosphine dicyclohexyl 2 4 6 tris 1 methylethyl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane XPHOS bis 2 phenylphosphinophenyl ether DPEphos or 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene Xantphos cf. for example Hassan J. et al. 102 1359 1469 2002 . Suitable copper catalysts are for example copper bronze copper I oxide copper I iodide or copper I bromide.

The conversion II III I A is effected in the presence of a suitable base. Suitable bases for this conversion are the customary inorganic or organic bases. These preferably include alkali metal hydroxides for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate calcium carbonate or cesium carbonate alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or sodium or potassium tert butoxide alkali metal hydrides such as sodium hydride or potassium hydride amides such as sodium amide lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide or lithium diisopropylamide or organic amines such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine N N diisopropylethylamine pyridine 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane DABCO . Preference is given to using sodium hydride or cesium carbonate.

The reaction II III I A is generally carried out in a temperature range from 0 C. to 200 C. preferably at from 10 C. to 150 C. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

If the Rradical is unsaturated it can subsequently be fully or partly saturated. The reduction is effected with hydrogen in conjunction with transition metal catalysts for example palladium 10 on activated carbon Raney nickel or palladium hydroxide. The reduction is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 50 C. The reaction can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Inert solvents for the process step IV V I B are for example alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine or acetonitrile. It is likewise possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to methanol or ethanol.

The reaction IV V I B is effected generally within a temperature range from 50 C. to 120 C. preferably from 50 C. to 100 C. optionally in a microwave. The conversion can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

The reaction I B VI can be carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions or without solvent. The preferred solvent is sulpholane.

The reaction I B VI is generally carried out in a temperature range from 70 C. to 150 C. preferably from 80 C. to 130 C. optionally in a microwave. The conversion can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Especially preferably the conversion I B VI is carried out without solvent in a temperature range from 0 C. to 50 C. at atmospheric pressure.

Process step VI I C is carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions. Suitable solvents are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or else water. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to acetonitrile.

The reaction VI I C is effected generally within a temperature range from 20 C. to 100 C. preferably from 40 C. to 70 C. optionally in a microwave. The conversion can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

The preparation process described can be illustrated by way of example by the following synthesis schemes Schemes 1 2 and 3 

The compounds of the formulae III and V are commercially available known from the literature or can be prepared in analogy to literature processes.

Further compounds according to the invention can optionally also be prepared by conversions of functional groups of individual substituents especially those listed for L and R proceeding from compounds of the formula I obtained by the above processes. These conversions are performed by customary methods known to those skilled in the art and include for example reactions such as nucleophilic and electrophilic substitutions oxidations reductions hydrogenations transition metal catalysed coupling reactions eliminations alkylation amination esterification ester cleavage etherification ether cleavage formation of carbonamides and introduction and removal of temporary protective groups.

in an inert solvent in the presence of a suitable base with hydrazine hydrate to give a compound of the formula IV 

The compounds of the formula VI are known from the literature see for example WO 2010 065275 WO 2011 115804 and WO 2011 149921 or can be prepared in analogy to processes known from the literature.

The compounds according to the invention are potent stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase have valuable pharmacological properties and have an improved therapeutic profile for example with respect to their in vivo properties and or their pharmacokinetic characteristics. They are therefore suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases in humans and animals.

The compounds according to the invention bring about vasorelaxation and inhibition of platelet aggregation and lead to a decrease in blood pressure and to a rise in coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated by a direct stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an intracellular rise in cGMP. In addition the compounds according to the invention enhance the action of substances which increase the cGMP level for example EDRF endothelium derived relaxing factor NO donors protoporphyrin IX arachidonic acid or phenylhydrazine derivatives.

The compounds according to the invention are suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of cardiovascular pulmonary thromboembolic and fibrotic disorders.

Accordingly the compounds according to the invention can be used in medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of cardiovascular disorders such as for example hypertension acute and chronic heart failure coronary heart disease stable and unstable angina pectoris peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias atrial and ventricular arrhythmias and impaired conduction such as for example atrioventricular blocks degrees I III AB block I III supraventricular tachyarrhythmia atrial fibrillation atrial flutter ventricular fibrillation ventricular flutter ventricular tachyarrhythmia Torsade de pointes tachycardia atrial and ventricular extrasystoles AV junctional extrasystoles sick sinus syndrome syncopes AV nodal re entry tachycardia Wolff Parkinson White syndrome of acute coronary syndrome ACS autoimmune cardiac disorders pericarditis endocarditis valvolitis aortitis cardiomyopathies shock such as cardiogenic shock septic shock and anaphylactic shock aneurysms boxer cardiomyopathy premature ventricular contraction PVC for the treatment and or prophylaxis of thromboembolic disorders and ischaemias such as myocardial ischaemia myocardial infarction stroke cardiac hypertrophy transient and ischaemic attacks preeclampsia inflammatory cardiovascular disorders spasms of the coronary arteries and peripheral arteries oedema formation such as for example pulmonary oedema cerebral oedema renal oedema or oedema caused by heart failure peripheral circulatory disturbances reperfusion damage arterial and venous thromboses microalbuminuria myocardial insufficiency endothelial dysfunction to prevent restenoses for example after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTA transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCA heart transplants and bypass operations and also micro and macrovascular damage vasculitis increased levels of fibrinogen and of low density lipoprotein LDL and increased concentrations of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 PAI 1 and also for the treatment and or prophylaxis of erectile dysfunction and female sexual dysfunction.

In the context of the present invention the term heart failure also includes more specific or related types of disease such as acute decompensated heart failure right heart failure left heart failure global failure ischaemic cardiomyopathy dilated cardiomyopathy hypertrophic cardiomyopathy idiopathic cardiomyopathy congenital heart defects heart valve defects heart failure associated with heart valve defects mitral stenosis mitral insufficiency aortic stenosis aortic insufficiency tricuspid stenosis tricuspid insufficiency pulmonary valve stenosis pulmonary valve insufficiency combined heart valve defects myocardial inflammation myocarditis chronic myocarditis acute myocarditis viral myocarditis diabetic heart failure alcoholic cardiomyopathy cardiac storage disorders and diastolic and systolic heart failure.

In addition the compounds according to the invention can also be used for the treatment and or prophylaxis of arteriosclerosis impaired lipid metabolism hypolipoproteinaemias dyslipidaemias hypertriglyceridaemias hyperlipidaemias hypercholesterolaemias abetalipoproteinaemia sitosterolaemia xanthomatosis Tangier disease adiposity obesity and of combined hyperlipidaemias and metabolic syndrome.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for the treatment and or prophylaxis of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon of microcirculation impairments claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities gangrene CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis rheumatic disorders and for promoting wound healing.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for treating urological disorders such as for example benign prostate syndrome BPS benign prostate hyperplasia BPH benign prostate enlargement BPE bladder outlet obstruction BOO lower urinary tract syndromes LUTS including Feline Urological Syndrome FUS disorders of the urogenital system including neurogenic overactive bladder OAB and IC incontinence UI such as for example mixed urinary incontinence urge urinary incontinence stress urinary incontinence or overflow urinary incontinence MUI UUI SUI OUI pelvic pain benign and malignant disorders of the organs of the male and female urogenital system.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of kidney disorders in particular of acute and chronic renal insufficiency and acute and chronic renal failure. In the context of the present invention the term renal insufficiency comprises both acute and chronic manifestations thereof as well as underlying or related kidney diseases such as renal hypoperfusion intradialytic hypotension obstructive uropathy glomerulopathies glomerulonephritis acute glomerulonephritis glomerulosclerosis tubulointerstitial diseases nephropathic diseases such as primary and congenital kidney disease nephritis immunological kidney diseases such as kidney graft rejection and immunocomplex induced kidney diseases nephropathy induced by toxic substances nephropathy induced by contrast agents diabetic and non diabetic nephropathy pyelonephritis renal cysts nephrosclerosis hypertensive nephrosclerosis and nephrotic syndrome which can be characterized diagnostically for example by abnormally reduced creatinine and or water excretion abnormally raised blood concentrations of urea nitrogen potassium and or creatinine altered activity of renal enzymes such as for example glutamyl synthetase altered urine osmolarity or urine volume increased microalbuminuria macroalbuminuria lesions on glomerulae and arterioles tubular dilatation hyperphosphataemia and or need for dialysis. The present invention also encompasses the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prophylaxis of sequelae of renal insufficiency for example pulmonary oedema heart failure uraemia anaemia electrolyte disturbances for example hyperkalaemia hyponatraemia and disturbances in bone and carbohydrate metabolism.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are also suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of asthmatic disorders pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH and other forms of pulmonary hypertension PH including left heart disease HIV sickle cell anaemia thromboembolisms CTEPH sarcoidosis COPD or pulmonary fibrosis associated pulmonary hypertension chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS acute lung injury ALI alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency AATD pulmonary fibrosis pulmonary emphysema for example pulmonary emphysema induced by cigarette smoke and cystic fibrosis CF .

The compounds described in the present invention are also active compounds for control of central nervous system disorders characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory losses vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease demyelinisation multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are also suitable for regulating cerebral blood flow and are thus effective agents for control of migraine. They are also suitable for prophylaxis and control of sequelae of cerebral infarction cerebral apoplexy such as stroke cerebral ischaemia and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain and tinnitus.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have antiinflammatory action and can therefore be used as antiinflammatory agents for the treatment and or prophylaxis of sepsis SIRS multiple organ failure MODS MOF inflammatory disorders of the kidney chronic intestinal inflammations IBD Crohn s disease UC pancreatitis peritonitis rheumatoid disorders inflammatory skin diseases and inflammatory eye diseases.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention can also be used for the treatment and or prophylaxis of autoimmune diseases.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of fibrotic disorders of the internal organs such as for example the lung the heart the kidney the bone marrow and in particular the liver and also dermatological fibroses and fibrotic eye disorders. In the context of the present invention the term fibrotic disorders includes in particular the following terms hepatic fibrosis cirrhosis of the liver pulmonary fibrosis endomyocardial fibrosis nephropathy glomerulonephritis interstitial renal fibrosis fibrotic damage resulting from diabetes bone marrow fibrosis and similar fibrotic disorders scleroderma morphea keloids hypertrophic scarring also following surgical procedures naevi diabetic retinopathy proliferative vitroretinopathy and disorders of the connective tissue for example sarcoidosis .

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for controlling postoperative scarring for example as a result of glaucoma operations.

The compounds according to the invention can also be used cosmetically for ageing and keratinized skin.

Moreover the compounds according to the invention are suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of hepatitis neoplasms osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prophylaxis of disorders in particular the disorders mentioned above.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further provides the compounds according to the invention for use in a method for treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for production of a medicament for the treatment and or prophylaxis of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further provides a method for the treatment and or prophylaxis of disorders in particular the disorders mentioned above using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The present invention further provides a method for the treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be employed alone or if required in combination with other active compounds. The present invention further provides medicaments comprising at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active compounds especially for the treatment and or prophylaxis of the aforementioned disorders. Preferred examples of suitable active compound combinations include 

Antithrombotic agents are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of the platelet aggregation inhibitors the anticoagulants or the profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor by way of example and with preference aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidin or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor by way of example and with preference ximelagatran dabigatran melagatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as by way of example and with preference tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor by way of example and with preference rivaroxaban BAY 59 7939 DU 176b apixaban otamixaban fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist by way of example and with preference coumarin.

Hypotensive agents are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and the diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist by way of example and with preference nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker by way of example and with preference prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker by way of example and with preference propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazalol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin AII antagonist by way of example and with preference losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embusartan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor by way of example and with preference enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist by way of example and with preference bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor by way of example and with preference aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist by way of example and with preference spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a loop diuretic for example furosemide torasemide bumetanide and piretanide with potassium sparing diuretics for example amiloride and triamterene with aldosterone antagonists for example spironolactone potassium canrenoate and eplerenone and also thiazide diuretics for example hydrochlorothiazide chlorthalidone xipamide and indapamide.

Lipid metabolism modifiers are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of the CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors the ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and the lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor by way of example and with preference dalcetrapib BAY 60 5521 anacetrapib oder CETP vaccine CETi 1 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the inventive compounds are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist by way of example and with preference D thyroxine 3 5 3 triiodothyronine T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins by way of example and with preference lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor by way of example and with preference BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor by way of example and with preference avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor by way of example and with preference implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist by way of example and with preference pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist by way of example and with preference GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor by way of example and with preference ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor a preferred example being orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent by way of example and with preference cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor by way of example and with preference ASBT IBAT inhibitors for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist by way of example and with preference gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further provides medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention typically together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and for the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention may act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable manner for example by the oral parenteral pulmonal nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival or otic route or as an implant or stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in administration forms suitable for these administration routes.

Administration forms which function according to the prior art release the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in a modified manner and contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form are suitable for oral administration such as e.g. tablets non coated or coated tablets for example with enteric coatings or coatings that dissolve in a delayed manner or are insoluble and control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets or films oblates films lyophilisates or capsules which disintegrate rapidly in the oral cavity for example hard or soft gelatine capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can bypass an absorption step e.g. intravenously intraarterially intracardially intraspinally or intralumbally or include an absorption e.g. intramuscularly subcutaneously intracutaneously percutaneously or intraperitoneally . Suitable administration forms for parenteral administration include injection and infusion formulations in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilisates or sterile powders.

For the other administration routes suitable examples are inhalable medicament forms including powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets films oblates or capsules for lingual sublingual or buccal administration suppositories ear or eye preparations vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams sprinkling powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted to the administration forms mentioned. This can be done in a manner known per se by mixing with inert nontoxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersing or wetting agents for example sodium dodecylsulphate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants for example ascorbic acid dyes e.g. inorganic pigments for example iron oxides and flavour and or odour correctants.

In general it has been found to be advantageous in the case of parenteral administration to administer amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results. In the case of oral administration the dose is about 0.001 to 2 mg kg preferably about 0.001 to 1 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts specifically as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active compound nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place. For instance in some cases less than the aforementioned minimum amount may be sufficient while in other cases the upper limit mentioned must be exceeded. In the case of administration of greater amounts it may be advisable to divide them into several individual doses over the day.

The working examples which follow illustrate the invention. The invention is not limited to the examples.

The percentages in the tests and examples which follow are unless indicated otherwise percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration figures for liquid liquid solutions are each based on volume.

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC System column Waters Acquity UPLC HSS T3 1.8 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 1.2 min 5 A 2.0 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.40 ml min UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC System column Waters Acquity UPLC HSS T3 1.8 30 2 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 1.2 min 5 A 2.0 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.60 ml min UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro Premier with Waters UPLC Acquity column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 1.9 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 0.1 min 90 A 1.5 min 10 A 2.2 min 10 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.33 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC System column Waters Acquity UPLC HSS T3 1.8 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 95 A 6.0 min 5 A 7.5 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.35 ml min UV detection 210 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro Premier with Waters UPLC Acquity column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 1.9 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 97 A 0.5 min 97 A 3.2 min 5 A 4.0 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.3 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

50.000 g 163.535 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidamide hydrochloride were dissolved in 700 ml of ethanol and 66.192 g 654.141 mmol of triethylamine and 10.233 g 163.535 mmol of hydrazine hydrate 80 strength solution in water were added at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was taken up in ethyl acetate and the solution was washed three times with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was stirred with diethyl ether filtered off with suction and dried under high vacuum. 46.49 g 46 of theory 68 pure of the title compound were obtained.

22.000 g purity 68 approx. 52.621 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide in 220 ml of ethanol were initially introduced admixed dropwise with 18.265 89.455 mmol of ethyl oxoacetate 50 strength solution in toluene and heated under reflux overnight. The resulting suspension was concentrated on a rotary evaporator and stirred with diethyl ether. The solid was filtered off with suction and dried under high vacuum. Further purification was effected by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol gradient 30 1 10 1 . This gave 12.07 g of the target compound purity 69 49 of theory .

12.000 g purity 69 approx. 25.690 mmol of 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 5 ol in 70 ml of thionyl chloride were heated under reflux for 6 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporator and admixed with toluene concentrated again and dried under high vacuum. This gave 13.10 g of the target compound purity 38 52 of theory .

7.000 g purity 38 7.090 mmol of 3 5 6 dichloro 1 2 4 triazin 3 yl 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine in 200 ml of absolute THF were initially introduced. With ice cooling 4.254 ml 8.508 mmol of 2N ammonia solution in ethanol were added and the mixture was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. Again with ice cooling 4.254 ml 8.508 mmol of 2N ammonia solution in ethanol were added and the mixture was stirred for 1.5 h at RT. 30 ml 60.000 mmol of 2N ammonia solution in ethanol was added and the mixture was stirred for 15 min at RT. The reaction mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporator suspended in 100 ml of dichloromethane admixed with 50 ml 100.00 mmol of 2N ammonia solution in ethanol and stirred for 2 h at RT. The mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporator and purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol gradient 20 1 10 1 . The product containing fractions were concentrated and stirred with DMSO. The solid was filtered off with suction after washed with acetonitrile and dried under high vacuum. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . This gave 1.68 g of the target compound purity 65 43 of theory .

2.000 g 7.035 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide in 50 ml of methanol were initially introduced and admixed with 0.937 g 7.035 mmol of ethyl amino thioxo acetate and 1.424 g 14.070 mmol of triethylamine were admixed and the mixture was heated under reflux for 5 h. The reaction mixture was left to stand overnight and the precipitate was filtered off with suction washed with a little ethanol and dried under high vacuum. This gave 1.892 g of the target compound purity 94 75 of theory .

1.000 g purity 67 approx. 2.357 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide in 15 ml of absolute ethanol were initially introduced and admixed with 1.557 g 7.070 mmol of diethyl 2 fluoro 2 methyl 3 oxobutanedioate described in 1966 9 149 151 . The mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase methanol water gradient 30 70 95 5 . This gave 230 mg of the target compound purity 95 21 of theory .

250 mg 0.522 mmol of ethyl 2 fluoro 2 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 hydroxy 1 2 4 triazin 6 ylpropanoate were admixed with 3 ml of phosphoryl chloride and stirred overnight at RT. The reaction mixture was diluted with 10 ml of dry acetonitrile and with ice cooling stirred into 5 ml of concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 35 strength . Stirring was continued for 2 h at RT and for 16 h at 50 C. After cooling the precipitate was filtered off with suction and dried in vacuo. This gave 294 mg purity 95 quant. yield of the target compound.

Under an argon atmosphere 100 mg purity 65 0.183 mmol of 6 chloro 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 amine were suspended in 4 ml of absolute dioxane. 103 mg 0.731 mmol of 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl boronic acid and 25 mg 0.183 mmol of potassium carbonate were added and argon was passed through the suspension for 10 min with stirring. Then 3 mg 4.020 mol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and again argon was passed through the mixture for 1 min. The reaction mixture was stirred for 20 min in the microwave at 140 C. 5 mg 0.018 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine were added and the mixture was again stirred for 20 min in the microwave at 140 C. After cooling the mixture was filtered over an Extrelut cartridge and after washed with a mixture of dichloromethane methanol v v 20 1 . The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 59 mg of the target compound were obtained 58 of theory .

Under an argon atmosphere 140 mg purity 65 0.256 mmol of 6 chloro 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 amine were suspended in 5 ml of absolute dioxane. 105 mg 0.767 mmol of 2 methylpyridin 3 yl boronic acid 1.023 ml 1.023 mmol of 1N aqueous potassium carbonate solution and 14 mg 0.051 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine were added and argon was passed through the suspension with stirring. Then 28 mg 0.038 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min in the microwave at 140 C. Again 19 mg 0.026 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 40 min in the microwave at 150 C. After cooling the mixture was filtered over an Extrelut cartridge and after washed with a mixture of dichloromethane methanol v v 20 1 . The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 26 mg of the target compound were obtained 18 of theory .

Under an argon atmosphere 140 mg purity 65 0.256 mmol of 6 chloro 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 amine were suspended in 5 ml of absolute dioxane. 154 mg purity 70 0.767 mmol of 3 5 dimethyl 1 2 oxazol 4 yl boronic acid 1.023 ml 1.023 mmol of 1N aqueous potassium carbonate solution and 14 mg 0.051 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine were added and argon was passed through the suspension for 10 min with stirring. Then 28 mg 0.038 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min in the microwave at 140 C. The reaction mixture was again stirred for 60 min in the microwave at 140 C. After cooling the mixture was filtered over an Extrelut cartridge and after washed with a mixture of dichloromethane methanol v v 20 1 . The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . This gave 25 mg of the target compound purity 95 18 of theory .

Under an argon atmosphere 140 mg purity 65 0.256 mmol of 6 chloro 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 amine were suspended in 5 ml of absolute dioxane. 117 mg 0.767 mmol of 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl boronic acid 1.023 ml 1.023 mmol of 1N aqueous potassium carbonate solution and 14 mg 0.051 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine were added and argon was passed through the suspension for 10 min with stirring. Then 28 mg 0.038 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min in the microwave at 140 C. After cooling the mixture was filtered over an Extrelut cartridge and after washed with a mixture of dichloromethane methanol v v 20 1 . The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . This gave 58 mg of the target compound purity 85 36 of theory .

Under an argon atmosphere 140 mg purity 65 0.256 mmol of 6 chloro 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 amine were suspended in 5 ml of absolute dioxane. 122 mg 0.767 mmol of pyridin 4 ylboronic acid hydrochloride 1.023 ml 1.023 mmol of 1N aqueous potassium carbonate solution and 14 mg 0.051 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine were added and argon was passed through the suspension for 10 min with stirring. Then 28 mg 0.038 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min in the microwave at 140 C. The reaction mixture was again stirred for 60 min in the microwave at 140 C. After cooling the mixture was filtered over an Extrelut cartridge and after washed with a mixture of dichloromethane methanol v v 20 1 . The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 36 mg of the target compound were obtained 33 of theory .

Under an argon atmosphere 140 mg purity 65 0.256 mmol of 6 chloro 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 amine were suspended in 5 ml of absolute dioxane. 160 mg 0.767 mmol of 1 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1.023 ml 1.023 mmol of 1N aqueous potassium carbonate solution and 14 mg 0.051 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine were added and argon was passed through the suspension for 10 min with stirring. Then 28 mg 0.038 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min in the microwave at 140 C. The reaction mixture was again stirred for 15 min in the microwave at 140 C. After cooling the mixture was filtered over an Extrelut cartridge and after washed with a mixture of dichloromethane methanol v v 20 1 . The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 66 mg of the target compound were obtained 47 of theory .

Under an argon atmosphere 140 mg purity 65 0.256 mmol of 6 chloro 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 amine were suspended in 5 ml of absolute dioxane. 94 mg 0.767 mmol of pyridin 3 ylboronic acid 1.023 ml 1.023 mmol of 1N aqueous potassium carbonate solution and 14 mg 0.051 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine were added and argon was passed through the suspension for 10 min with stirring. Then 28 mg 0.038 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min in the microwave at 140 C. After cooling the mixture was filtered over an Extrelut cartridge and after washed with a mixture of dichloromethane methanol v v 20 1 . The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 77 mg of the target compound were obtained 65 of theory .

Under an argon atmosphere 140 mg purity 65 0.256 mmol of 6 chloro 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 amine were suspended in 5 ml of absolute dioxane. 117 mg 0.767 mmol of 2 methoxypyridin 3 yl boronic acid 1.023 ml 1.023 mmol of 1N aqueous potassium carbonate solution and 14 mg 0.051 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine were added and argon was passed through the suspension for 10 min with stirring. Then 28 mg 0.038 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 60 min in the microwave at 140 C. After cooling the mixture was filtered over an Extrelut cartridge and after washed with a mixture of dichloromethane methanol v v 20 1 . The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 38 mg of the target compound were obtained 27 of theory .

Under an argon atmosphere 140 mg purity 65 0.256 mmol of 6 chloro 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 amine were suspended in 5 ml of absolute dioxane. 105 mg 0.767 mmol of 2 methylpyridin 4 yl boronic acid 1.023 ml 1.023 mmol of 1N aqueous potassium carbonate solution and 14 mg 0.051 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine were added and argon was passed through the suspension for 10 min with stirring. Then 28 mg 0.038 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min in the microwave at 140 C. Again 19 mg 0.026 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 40 min in the microwave at 150 C. After cooling the mixture was filtered over an Extrelut cartridge and after washed with a mixture of dichloromethane methanol v v 20 1 . The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . This gave 53 mg of the target compound purity 92 41 of theory .

3.602 g 10.677 mmol of 6 amino 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 5 ol in 45 ml of thionyl chloride were added and heated under reflux for 3 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with 200 ml of dry acetonitrile and with ice cooling added dropwise to 500 ml of concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 35 strength . The mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The acetonitrile was removed on a rotary evaporator and the precipitate was filtered off with suction. This gave 3.541 g purity 67 66 of theory of the target compound. A small amount was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water with 0.1 TFA gradient 30 70 95 5 .

200 mg 0.595 mmol of 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 6 diamine were admixed with 8 ml of dichloromethane and cooled to 0 C. 545 mg 4.757 mmol of methanesulphonyl chloride and 481 mg 4.757 mmol of triethylamine were added and the mixture was stirred at RT for 72 h. The mixture was diluted with dichloromethane and the precipitate was filtered off with suction. The filtrate was partitioned between water and ethyl acetate. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water with 0.1 TFA gradient 30 70 95 5 . This gave 57 mg 18 of theory of the target compound.

200 mg purity 67 0.398 mmol of 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazine 5 6 diamine were admixed with 4 ml of dichloromethane and cooled to 0 C. 151 mg 1.594 mmol of methyl chloroformate dissolved in 1 ml of dichloromethane and 161 mg 1.594 mmol of triethylamine were added and the mixture was stirred at RT for 15 min. The precipitate was filtered off with suction and dried under high vacuum. This gave 97 mg 61 of theory of the target compound.

1.098 g 7.035 mmol of methyl 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 oxopropanoate in 10 ml of ethanol were initially introduced and heated to reflux. Then 2.000 g 7.035 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 3 carboximidohydrazide suspended in 25 ml of ethanol were added and the mixture was heated under reflux overnight. After cooling the mixture was filtered and the filtercake was washed with a little ethanol and purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water with 0.1 TFA ratio 45 55 . This gave 710 mg of the target compound purity 93 24 of theory .

690 mg 1.768 mmol of 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 6 trifluoromethyl 1 2 4 triazin 5 ol were admixed with 9 ml of phosphoryl chloride and stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with 50 ml of dry acetonitrile and with ice cooling stirred into 123 ml of concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 25 strength . Stirring was carried out for 48 h at RT and for 24 h at 50 C. After cooling the acetonitrile was removed on a rotary evaporator water was added the precipitate was filtered off with suction and the filtercake was washed with a little water. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water with 0.1 TFA gradient 30 70 95 5 . This gave 125 mg 18 of theory of the target compound.

1.197 g 7.035 mmol of ethyl cyclopentyl oxo acetate in 15 ml of ethanol were initially introduced and heated to reflux. Then 2.000 g 7.035 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 3 carboximidohydrazide suspended in 20 ml of ethanol were added and the mixture was heated under reflux overnight. After cooling the mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water with 0.1 TFA ratio 45 55 . This gave 749 mg of the target compound 26 of theory .

730 mg 1.870 mmol of 6 cyclopentyl 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 5 ol were admixed with 9 ml of phosphoryl chloride and stirred overnight at RT. The reaction mixture was diluted with 50 ml of dry acetonitrile and with ice cooling stirred into 130 ml of concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 25 strength . Stirring was carried out for 48 h at RT and for 24 h at 50 C. After cooling the acetonitrile was removed on a rotary evaporator the precipitate was filtered off with suction and the filtercake was washed with a little water. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water with 0.1 TFA gradient 30 70 95 5 . This gave 508 mg 70 of theory of the target compound.

0.916 g 7.035 mmol of methyl 2 oxopentanoate in 15 ml of ethanol were initially introduced and heated to reflux. Then 2.000 g 7.035 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 3 carboximidohydrazide suspended in 20 ml of ethanol were added and the mixture was heated under reflux overnight. After cooling the mixture was filtered off with suction and the filtercake was washed with a little ethanol and dried under high vacuum. This gave 1.75 g of the target compound purity 92 63 of theory .

1.730 g 4.748 mmol of 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 6 propyl 1 2 4 triazin 5 ol were admixed with 23 ml of phosphoryl chloride and stirred overnight at RT. The reaction mixture was diluted with 100 ml of dry acetonitrile and with ice cooling stirred into 330 ml of concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 25 strength . Stirring was carried out for 48 h at RT and for 24 h at 50 C. After cooling the mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporator the residue was stirred with 200 ml of water and filtered off with suction and the filtercake was washed with a little water. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water with 0.1 TFA gradient 30 70 95 5 . This gave 1.360 g 60 of theory of the target compound.

0.817 g 7.035 mmol of methyl 2 oxobutanoate in 15 ml of ethanol were initially introduced and heated to reflux. Then 2.000 g 7.035 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 3 carboximidohydrazide suspended in 20 ml of ethanol were added and the mixture was heated under reflux overnight. After cooling the mixture was filtered off with suction and the filtercake was washed with a little ethanol and dried under high vacuum. This gave 1.83 g of the target compound 74 of theory .

1.800 g 5.138 mmol of 6 ethyl 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 5 ol were admixed with 25 ml of phosphoryl chloride and stirred overnight at RT. The reaction mixture was diluted with 100 ml of dry acetonitrile and with ice cooling stirred into 375 ml of concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 25 strength . Stirring was carried out for 4 h at RT. Concentration on a rotary evaporator was carried out and the residue was partitioned between water and ethyl acetate. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water with 0.1 TFA gradient 30 70 95 5 . This gave 157 mg 8 of theory of the target compound.

1.014 g 7.035 mmol of ethyl 3 methyl 2 oxobutanoate in 15 ml of ethanol were initially introduced and heated to reflux. Then 2.000 g 7.035 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 3 carboximidohydrazide suspended in 20 ml of ethanol were added and the mixture was heated under reflux overnight. After cooling the mixture was filtered off with suction and the filtercake was washed with a little ethanol and dried under high vacuum. This gave 918 mg of the target compound 36 of theory .

900 mg 5.138 mmol of 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 6 isopropyl 1 2 4 triazin 5 ol were admixed with 12 ml of phosphoryl chloride and stirred overnight at RT. The reaction mixture was diluted with 50 ml of dry acetonitrile and with ice cooling stirred into 173 ml of concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 25 strength . The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 h at RT and for 6 h at 50 C. After cooling concentration on a rotary evaporator was carried out.

The residue was partitioned between water and ethyl acetate. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was stirred with diethyl ether filtered off with suction and dried under high vacuum. This gave 266 mg purity 92 27 of theory of the target compound.

290 mg purity 95 0.671 mmol of 2 5 amino 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 fluoropropanamide were initially introduced in 2.6 ml of acetic acid and 2 drops of 1N hydrochloric acid were added. The mixture was stirred for 30 min at 100 C. in the microwave. After cooling the reaction solution was admixed with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated sodium hydrogencarbonate solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 30 70 95 5 . This gave 23 mg purity 89 8 of theory of the target compound.

The pharmacological effect of the compounds according to the invention can be shown in the following assays 

Rabbits are stunned by a blow to the neck and exsanguinated. The aorta is removed freed from adhering tissue and divided into rings of a width of 1.5 mm. The rings are placed individually under an initial tension in 5 ml organ baths with Krebs Henseleit solution which is at 37 C. is gassed with carbogen and has the following composition in each case mM sodium chloride 119 potassium chloride 4.8 calcium chloride dihydrate 1 magnesium sulphate heptahydrate 1.4 potassium dihydrogenphosphate 1.2 sodium bicarbonate 25 glucose 10. The contractile force is determined with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitalized using A D transducers DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on linear recorders. To produce a contraction phenylephrine is added to the bath cumulatively in increasing concentration. After several control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further run in increasing dosage in each case and the height of the contraction achieved is compared with the height of the contraction reached in the last preceding run. This is used to calculate the concentration needed to reduce the magnitude of the control value by 50 ICvalue . The standard administration volume is 5 l the DMSO content in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

Representative ICvalues for the compounds according to the invention are shown in the table below Table 1 

The cellular effect of the compounds according to the invention is determined using a recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell line as described in F. Wunder et al. 339 104 112 2005 .

Representative values MEC minimum effective concentration for the compounds according to the invention are shown in the table below Table 2 

A commercially available telemetry system from DATA SCIENCES INTERNATIONAL DSI USA is employed for the blood pressure measurement on conscious rats described below.

The telemetry system makes it possible to continuously record blood pressure heart rate and body motion of conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SHR Okamoto with a body weight of 200 g. SHR NCrl from the Okamoto Kyoto School of Medicine 1963 were a cross of male Wistar Kyoto rats with highly elevated blood pressure and female rats having a slightly elevated blood pressure and at F13 handed over to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.

After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water.

The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6 00 am and at 7 00 pm.

The telemetry transmitters TA11 PA C40 used are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anaesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area of their abdomens. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fixed with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and layered closure of the wound is performed.

An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of infection.

Unless indicated otherwise the substances to be investigated are administered orally by gavage in each case to a group of animals n 6 . The test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 strength Tylose appropriate for an administration volume of 5 ml kg of body weight.

The telemetry measuring unit present is configured for 24 animals. Each experiment is recorded under an experiment number Vyear month day .

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI .

The implanted transmitters can be activated externally by means of an incorporated magnetic switch. They are switched to transmission in the run up to the experiment. The signals emitted can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for WINDOWS DSI and processed accordingly. The data are stored in each case in a file created for this purpose and bearing the experiment number.

The acquisition of measurements is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure Ambient Pressure Reference Monitor APR 1 and stored as individual data. Further technical details are given in the extensive documentation from the manufacturing company DSI .

Unless indicated otherwise the test substances are administered at 9.00 am on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours.

After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software DATAQUEST A.R.T. ANALYSIS . The blank value is assumed to be the time 2 hours before administration and so the selected data set encompasses the period from 7.00 am on the day of the experiment to 9.00 am the following day.

The data are smoothed over a presettable time by determination of the average 15 minute average and transferred as a text file to a storage medium. The measured values presorted and compressed in this way are transferred into Excel templates and tabulated. For each day of the experiment the data obtained are stored in a dedicated file bearing the number of the experiment. Results and test protocols are filed in paper form sorted by numbers.

Klaus Witte Kai Hu Johanna Swiatek Claudia M ssig Georg Ertl and Bjorn Lemmer Experimental heart failure in rats effects on cardiovascular circadian rhythms and on myocardial adrenergic signaling. Cardiovasc Res 47 2 203 405 2000 Kozo Okamoto Spontaneous hypertension in rats. Int Rev Exp Pathol 7 227 270 1969 Maarten van den Buuse Circadian Rhythms of Blood Pressure Heart Rate and Locomotor Activity in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats as Measured With Radio Telemetry. Physiology Behavior 55 4 783 787 1994

The pharmacokinetic parameters of the inventive compounds are determined in male CD 1 mice male Wistar rats and female beagles. Intravenous administration in the case of mice and rats is effected by means of a species specific plasma DMSO formulation and in the case of dogs by means of a water PEG400 ethanol formulation. In all species oral administration of the dissolved substance is performed via gavage based on a water PEG400 ethanol formulation. The removal of blood from rats is simplified by inserting a silicone catheter into the right Vena jugularis externa prior to substance administration. The operation is effected at least one day prior to the experiment with isofluran anaesthesia and administration of an analgesic atropine rimadyl 3 1 0.1 ml s.c. . The blood is taken generally more than 10 time points within a time window including terminal time points of at least 24 to a maximum of 72 hours after substance administration. The blood is removed into heparinized tubes. The blood plasma is then obtained by centrifugation if required it can be stored at 20 C. until further processing.

An internal standard which may also be a chemically unrelated substance is added to the samples of the inventive compounds calibration samples and qualifiers and there follows protein precipitation by means of acetonitrile in excess. Addition of a buffer solution matched to the LC conditions and subsequent vortexing is followed by centrifugation at 1000 g. The supernatant is analysed by means of LC MS MS using Creversed phase columns and variable mobile phase mixtures. The substances are quantified via the peak heights or areas from extracted ion chromatograms of specific selected ion monitoring experiments.

The plasma concentration time plots determined are used to calculate the pharmacokinetic parameters such as AUC C t terminal half life MRT mean residence time and CL clearance using a validated pharmacokinetic calculation program.

Since the substance quantification is performed in plasma it is necessary to determine the blood plasma distribution of the substance in order to be able to adjust the pharmacokinetic parameters correspondingly. For this purpose a defined amount of substance is incubated in heparinized whole blood of the species in question in a rocking roller mixer for 20 min After centrifugation at 1000 g the plasma concentration is measured by means of LC MS MS see above and determined by calculating the ratio of the c cvalue.

To determine the metabolic profile of the compounds according to the invention they are incubated with recombinant human cytochrome P450 CYP enzymes liver microsomes or primary fresh hepatocytes from various animal species e.g. rats dogs and also of human origin in order to obtain and to compare information about a very substantially complete hepatic phase I and phase II metabolism and about the enzymes involved in the metabolism.

The compounds according to the invention were incubated with a concentration of about 0.1 10 M. To this end stock solutions of the compounds according to the invention having a concentration of 0.01 1 mM in acetonitrile were prepared and then pipetted with 1 100 dilution into the incubation mixture. Liver microsomes and recombinant enzymes were incubated at 37 C. in 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 with and without NADPH generating system consisting of 1 mM NADP 10 mM glucose 6 phosphate and 1 unit glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase. Primary hepatocytes were incubated in suspension in Williams E medium likewise at 37 C. After an incubation time of 0 4 h the incubation mixtures were stopped with acetonitrile final concentration about 30 and the protein was centrifuged off at about 15 000 g. The samples thus stopped were either analysed directly or stored at 20 C. until analysis.

The analysis is effected by means of high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet and mass spectrometry detection HPLC UV MS MS . To this end the supernatants of the incubation samples are chromatographed with suitable C18 reversed phase columns and variable mobile phase mixtures of acetonitrile and 10 mM aqueous ammonium formate solution or 0.05 formic acid. The UV chromatograms in conjunction with mass spectrometry data serve for identification structural elucidation and quantitative estimation of the metabolites and for quantitative metabolic assessment of the compound according to the invention in the incubation mixtures.

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of corn starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

The mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 solution w w of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is pressed with a conventional tableting press for tablet dimensions see above . The guide value used for the pressing is a pressing force of 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

A single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention corresponds to 10 ml of oral suspension.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h until swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400. 20 g of oral solution correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate while stirring. The stirring operation is continued until dissolution of the compound according to the invention is complete.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically acceptable solvent e.g. isotonic saline glucose solution 5 and or PEG 400 solution 30 . The solution is subjected to sterile filtration and dispensed into sterile and pyrogen free injection vessels.

