---

title: Dispenser pod
abstract: A dispenser pod, which includes a dispenser chassis with a first chassis end, a second chassis end and a chassis chamber, a first chassis end cover for covering the first chassis end, a second chassis end cover for covering the second chassis end, a launch system, and at least one sway brace. The first chassis end cover has at least one expendable passageway for accepting an expendable launch canister such that the expendable launch canister can enter the chassis chamber. The launch system is for expelling the expendable launch canister from the chassis chamber and through the expendable passageway. The at least one sway brace is for securing the expendable launch canister within the chassis chamber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08789453&OS=08789453&RS=08789453
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08789453
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130221
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

United States Navy aircraft often utilize dispenser pods for launching expendables and for use on rocket launchers. These dispenser pods need to maintain the overall size shape and mass properties of the rocket launcher. The dispenser pods must also provide electromagnetic isolation be able to be jettisoned and withstand the ejection forces generated by a launch canister.

The present invention is directed to a dispenser pod that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to a dispenser pod which includes a dispenser chassis with a first chassis end a second chassis end and a chassis chamber and a first chassis end cover for covering the first chassis end a second chassis end cover for covering the second chassis end a launch system and at least one sway brace. The first chassis end cover has at least one expendable passageway for accepting an expendable launch canister such that the expendable launch canister is alignable within the chassis chamber. The launch system is for expelling the expendable launch canister from the chassis chamber and through the expendable passageway. The at least one sway brace is for securing the expendable launch canister within the chassis chamber.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a dispenser pod that maintains overall size shape and mass properties of a particular rocket launcher.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a dispenser pod that provides electromagnetic isolation of greater than 29 db between its interior and exterior.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a dispenser pod that maintains launch canisters between 34 and 71 degrees Celsius.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a dispenser pod that can withstand the ejection forces generated by a launch canister and is able to be jettisoned.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . As shown in the dispenser pod includes a dispenser chassis with a chassis chamber a first chassis end and a second chassis end a first chassis end cover for covering the first chassis end a second chassis end cover for covering the second chassis end a launch system and at least one sway brace . The first chassis end cover has at least one expendable passageway for accepting an expendable launch canister such that the expendable launch canister enters the chassis chamber . In the preferred embodiment as shown in there are two chassis chambers one for a first expendable launch canister and another for a second expendable launch canister . Correspondingly there is a first expendable passageway on the first chassis end cover for accepting the first expendable launch canister and a second expendable passageway on the first chassis end cover for accepting the second expendable launch canister . The launch system is for expelling an expendable launch canister s from the chassis chamber s and through the expendable passageway s . The at least one sway brace is for securing the expendable launch canister within the chassis chamber . In the preferred embodiment there is are two first sway braces and two second sway braces such that the first sway braces correspond to the first expendable launch canister and the second sway braces correspond to the second expendable launch canister .

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a military environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of application that requires use of a dispenser pod.

In the preferred embodiment the expendable launch canisters may be manufactured from fiberglass and can be expendable disposable. Each expendable launch canister contains a launch system . In the preferred embodiment the launch system includes a cartridge actuated piston an electrical harness and a shear screw retainer system used to expel the expendable when actuated. However any type of launch system that is practicable may be utilized.

The dispenser pod may also include a dispenser pod heating system . The heating system allows the dispenser pod to maintain the expendable launch canisters between 34 degrees C. and 71 degrees C. As shown in and within each chassis chamber there is a heating system corresponding to each expendable launch canister . In the preferred embodiment each heating system includes four heating elements and a corresponding heat sink . The heating elements and heat sinks sets are disposed on opposite sides of the expendable launch canister as shown in and are stacked on top of each other with the heat sink on top of the heating element . In the preferred embodiment each heating element is a wire resistor encased in a thin rectangular silicon rubber mat. Each mat is covered by an extruded aluminum finned heat sink . The heating elements produce and conduct heat while the heat sinks transfer the heat to the surrounding air within the chassis chamber such that a certain temperature is maintained in the chassis chamber .

The dispenser pod may also include thermostatic control switches thermostatic safety switches and relays. These components may communicate with an exterior control panel that may be installed in an aircraft at a sensor station. The control panel may include a heater power switch a panel dimmer system circuit breakers a reset switch and or a hot cold indicator.

As shown in and the dispenser pod may also include an electrical tray . The electrical tray is able to electrically support bus interference wiring and the heating systems . In the preferred embodiment each chassis chamber includes a corresponding electrical tray . Each electrical tray is designed to support store bus wiring and a heating system . Each electrical tray may have a disconnect which allows it to be removed from the dispenser pod for separate assembly and maintenance. Each electrical tray may also include a fan disposed near the heating elements such that the fan can circulate the air within the chassis chamber . In the preferred embodiment each electrical tray may include the heating elements and the fan integrated within. As seen in the electrical tray may be curved.

In the preferred embodiment a rail assembly is disposed within each chassis chamber . The expendable launch canisters ride along the rail assembly such that when actuated each expendable launch canister s passes through its corresponding expendable passageway and out the dispenser pod . As seen in each expendable launch canister may include a set of yokes . The yokes correspond to the rail assembly . As seen in each sway brace includes a head a screw portion and a pawl . The head is disposed outside the dispenser chassis while the screw portion passes through the dispenser chamber and the chassis chamber then aligned with the rail assembly such that end of the screw portion corresponds to the pawl which presses on the yoke such that the expendable canisters can be more tightly or less tightly secured within the chamber chassis .

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

