---

title: System and method for second factor authentication services
abstract: A customer server receives a client request to access protected resources over the Internet. First factor authentication is performed and if it is successful a vendor authentication engine is invoked to undertake second factor authentication. The results of the second factor authentication are returned to the customer server, which grants access only if both first and second factor authentication succeeds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047473&OS=09047473&RS=09047473
owner: Anakam, Inc.
number: 09047473
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130830
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 142 232 filed Jun. 19 2008 allowed which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 694 filed Jul. 2 2007 allowed which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 8 219 822 issued Jul. 10 2012 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 8 079 070 issued Dec. 13 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 7 676 834 issued Mar. 9 2010 all of which are incorporated herein by reference and from all of which is priority claimed.

The parent applications referenced above recognize the importance of providing more than simple user name password protection for sensitive online data and accordingly provide minimally intrusive second factor authentication systems and methods. As understood herein some customers may prefer to handle first factor authentication user name and password themselves and use a vendor second factor authentication in conjunction therewith.

A method for selectively granting a user access to data includes at a first authentication server provided by a first vendor receiving a request for access from a user computer. The method also includes using signals from the user computer to provide first factor authentication of the user. Only if first factor authentication is successful a second factor authentication engine provided by a second vendor different from the first vendor is used to provide second factor authentication of the user. The user is granted access to the data only if second factor authentication is successful.

The first factor authentication may be executed by the first authentication server and may include testing for correct user name and password. The second factor authentication may include determining whether a previously submitted one time pass code is valid. The pass code is generated as soon as the first factor authentication is successful and is delivered out of band by email cell phone SMS text message or voice interactive voice response IVR . The pass code is for one time use and may have a time expiration associated with it. In another aspect a second factor authentication engine is disclosed on a tangible computer readable medium executable by a processor to execute logic. The logic includes receiving from a customer s system an indication that a user name of a user and an associated password have been verified and undertaking second factor authentication of the user on behalf of the customer. The logic also includes returning to the customer system an indication of results of second factor authentication.

In another aspect a server has a processor and a tangible computer readable medium accessible by the processor and bearing instructions embodying logic. The logic includes receiving a user request to access information and in response to the request causing a user name and password received from the user to be authenticated. If the user name and password are not authenticated the logic denies the user access to the information. Only if the user name and password are authenticated a vendor authentication engine undertakes a second factor authentication and generates a result and the logic receives the result from the engine. If the result indicates that second factor authentication fails the logic denies the user access to the information but otherwise grants the user access to the information.

Referring initially to a system is shown generally designated which supports resource requests by client computers executing in one implementation Java 2 platform enterprise edition J2EE applications . The requests are sent to a customer server having one or more server processors accessing one or more tangible computer readable media bearing instructions including portions of the logic discussed below. The media may be without limitation solid state memory disk based memory or other memory or combination thereof.

As set forth further below the customer server executes first factor authentication of the user of the client computer and if first factor authentication is successful accesses a vendor provided second factor authentication server that may include one or more processors accessing one or more tangible computer readable media bearing instructions including portions of the logic discussed below. The media may be without limitation solid state memory disk based memory or other memory or combination thereof. Only if both first and second factor authentication is successful is the client computer permitted to access a protected information database associated with the customer server . In some embodiments the second factor authentication server may execute both first and second factor authentication.

In one example embodiment the customer server may execute a Java Identity Management Suite including a Java System Identity Manager IDM and a Java System Access Manager AM from e.g. Sun Microsystems to provide integrated user provisioning de provisioning and identities management as discussed below. The AM in an example embodiment can be used to handle the first factor authentication process which can be e.g. requesting entry of a user name and password by the client computer and then determining whether the user name and password match an approved user name and password in a user database accessible to the customer server . On the other hand the IDM can be used to provision and de provision users for second factor authentication by communicating user data to a synchronization utility in the second factor authentication server . In non limiting embodiments the user data sent from the IDM to the utility may include e.g. user name user email address user home office phone number user mobile phone number and carrier user s actual first and last names user s address and user s authentication profile as discussed further below. The user data may be stored in a database accessible to the second factor authentication server .

Thus the user data in the database is collected not by the second factor authentication server but by the customer server . The user data is uploaded to the database with a synchronous connection being maintained between the customer server and second factor authentication server during operations. User self registration may also be provided in which each user enters his two factor data directly into the second factor authentication server .

Additionally as shown in the customer server may include an IDM Resource Adapter which functions as an interface to external subsystems and applications translating and converting data between the systems into the proper format needed by each system.

Furthermore the customer server may include a vendor provided login module typically provided by the same vendor providing the second factor authentication programming of the second factor authentication server . In an example non limiting implementation the login module is a Java Authentication and Authorization Service JAAS compliant module that is used to facilitate providing second factor authentication services to the AM by communicating with a second factor authentication engine in the second factor authentication server when first factor authentication executed by the AM is successful. In some embodiments the second factor authentication server may return pursuant to execution of second factor authentication HTML snippets that are transformed by the login module into a format suitable for use via AM callback routines. The login module also transforms values from the customer server into a format suitable for use with the second factor authentication engine .

At decision diamond it is determined whether both the user name and password are correct i.e. whether they match a paired entry in a user database. The decision at diamond may be executed by the customer server using e.g. the AM or the login module of the customer server may pass the user name and password to the second factor authentication server which makes the determination at diamond . If either the user name or password is incorrect in some embodiments after a predetermined number of retries an error is returned at state .

Otherwise first factor authentication of the user is successful and the logic flows to block to send a request for second factor authentication of the user to the second factor authentication server . Details of this second factor test are discussed further below in reference to . If the second factor authentication test fails the user is denied access to the requested information at block but only if both first and second factor authentication are successful is the user granted access to the requested resources at state .

Turning to second factor authentication and at block the request for second factor authentication pursuant to a successful first factor authentication is received at the second factor authentication server . At block a challenge is issued. The challenge may include but is not limited to pass code challenge with various delivery options e.g. phone text message email message IVR etc. security question challenges challenges based on geographic location mutual authentication etc. Which challenge to use is defined by the customer server as part of the user profile given to the second factor authentication server .

For instance an email or wireless telephone short message service SMS message or outbound telephone call using IVR principles can be sent to the user containing a randomly generated single use only pass code which is supplied by the second factor authentication server . This pass code can then be sent by the user to the second factor authentication server using the client computer to prove that the user is authorized access. In additional or alternative embodiments a biometric information test may also be used to trigger this challenge or indeed after reception of the pass code to further verify user authenticity. Details of non limiting biometric and geographic second factor authentication are set forth in one or more of the above referenced patent applications.

If a correct response to the challenge is not received at decision diamond e.g. within a predetermined response period an error is returned at state and the user is denied access to the requested resources at block of . The error result alternatively may entail directing the user back to the first factor authentication process described above. On the other hand a positive result at diamond moves the logic to block wherein a pass is returned indicating that second factor authentication is successful. The user is granted access to the requested resources.

In additional or alternative aspects depicts a system . A user computer can communicate with a Web server over the Internet . The user computer can include processor and disk and or solid state program storage for storing software embodying logic. The user computer can also include one or more input devices such as keyboards mice voice recognition devices etc. as well as one or more output devices such as monitors printers other computers etc. Authentication logic executed by the system may be used in applications such as but not limited to online banking secure online e commerce and VPN access control.

The server can include a processor and disk and or solid state program storage for storing software embodying logic including all or part of the logic discussed further below. The server may access a customer information database that contains the log in and registration information on users set forth further below it being understood that the database can be pre populated with user information on existing customers who elect to start up the present service. In addition the server may access an information database to supply users with desired information e.g. bank account records subscription content etc. The databases may be implemented in a single data structure if desired.

Now referring to the initial registration logic of commencing at block the user logs in for the initial time. Moving to block a user name and a password are established for instance by allowing the user to select a user name and password or with the server conferring a user name and password on the user. In block additional user information can be obtained if desired. Such user information might include billing information and validation information. The validation information can be confidential to the user so as to protect his account from outside unwanted users who might have stolen the users account information in accordance with further logic set forth below. It is to be understood that the validation information alternatively can be previously obtained from the user in various ways online or off line.

At block at the same time the user registers or subsequently in the case of users who are already registered with the server for other purposes but now for the first time commence the present service the user s computer is sent a verification string. The verification string is preferably but not necessarily one that does not require user interaction or special software such as a cookie that can have a machine ID and a login key e.g. a 4096 bit string with randomly generated value. The cookie may also have a user ID that is unique to a person. The cookie requires no special client software and is invisible to the user. Both the machine ID and the login key are randomly generated stored on the server and associated with that user s account. Once the users account is established the machine ID and the login key become associated with that user s account. Access is granted if all user information and user account information is correct shown in block .

After registration the logic that can be implemented by the server moves to for subsequent attempts by the user to log on to the server and access the user information contained in the database shown in . Beginning with block upon subsequent logins the user enters the user name and password. At decision diamond the server checks the user name and password s validity. If the user name and password are not correct user access is denied at block .

If at decision diamond it is determined that the user name and password are correct the logic flows to decision diamond wherein the server checks the user s computer to verify the correct cookie is stored on the user s computer by e.g. comparing the cookie on the user s computer with server cookie records. If the server determines the cookie is present and correct access to the user information in the database is granted at block . Then at block assuming that the machine being used is not a newly entered machine as discussed further below in relation to block a new login key carried on a new cookie preferably over an secure socket layer SSL encrypted link is downloaded. This new cookie with new login key is used for the next user login using the same machine. The login key in the new cookie is different from the login key of the old cookie but the machine ID stays constant.

In contrast if at decision diamond it is determined that the cookie on the user computer is not correct in some optional embodiments the server moves to decision diamond to determine whether all the computers that have been allocated to the user have accessed the server . In other words in some applications such as online banking the server may allocate to the user at registration in response to a user request more than a single computer i.e. to use N computers N 1 to access the information in the database . For instance an online banking customer might want to access his bank account from both an office computer and a home computer. If all of the AN allocated computers that have been allocated to the user have accessed the server and have been granted cookies meaning that the currently used computer is in excess of the authorized number user access is denied and the logic flows to block to trigger a validation process. If desired to foil a dictionary attack only a limited number of login cookie verification attempts may be allowed from any one machine after which the machine is locked out until successful validation occurs.

In a non limiting implementation the validation process can include the user entering the confidential information initially given in the initial login process. The validation information can be the user s mother s maiden name the user s social security number or some other information that preferably is personal to the user. The server then checks the user input against the validation information that was gathered at block in . If a match is found validation is successful and the user is granted access otherwise validation is unsuccessful and access is denied.

In some implementations the validation process can include sending an email to the user. The email can contain a hyperlink to a Web site at which a new cookie that is valid for accessing the data may be obtained. If desired access to the Web site at which a new cookie may be obtained can be disabled after the user clicks once on the hyperlink. In additional or alternative embodiments the validation process can include prompting the user to call a telephone number to verify predetermined information or to access a Web site to verify predetermined information online. Once validation is successful the server permits access to the information in the database .

In contrast if the server determines at decision diamond that not all machines that have been allocated have accessed the server a new cookie with a new machine ID and login key is downloaded to the new computer at block . The logic then loops back to block to grant access in some embodiments only after having triggered the validation first as described at block to ensure that the correct user is logging in.

In the context of adding a new machine when more than a single user computer is authorized the new machine can be automatically added at its first login in accordance with the logic above assuming the above described conditions have been met or the server can ask the user of the new machine whether the new machine is to count as one of the N authorized machines temporarily or otherwise. If the user indicates that the machine is to be temporary only e.g. if the user is operating a terminal at a hotel the user could specify an expiration date and or number of logins after which any access to the user information from that machine would be denied or at the least would trigger the verification process once again. This can be done by causing the cookie to be designated expired at the end of the period. For instance at an in hotel room terminal a user might specify an expiration at the expected check out time or a user could specify a number of logins to allow from that machine before the verification process is triggered again. The expiration information is stored at the server. When a machine expires the number of new machines remaining to be added to the user s account may be reset by one. In contrast the user would not be asked for temporary use information when communicating with the server from a core set of computers from which the user has authorized permanent access. One or more pieces of the above information that is transmitted between computers maybe encrypted using e.g. AES encryption.

In any case the purpose of the system is to permit controlled access of the user computer to data in a sensitive information database using authentication information in an authentication database . The information server and sensitive information database

The logic of an example implementation of the logic is shown in . shows a high level logic flow that may be implemented by the system shown in . Commencing at block the user contacts the information server using the user computer . This contact usually entails an initial authentication such as a login process that includes entering a user name and password. If the login process fails at decision diamond the logic ends but if it is successful the present invention proceeds to block wherein user computer communication transparently to the user is transferred to the authentication server . Communication between the servers may use SOAP principles known in the art.

At the authentication server it is determined at decision diamond whether the machine is recognized using the machine ID in the above disclosed cookie and has been previously secured by the user using the login key . This can be thought of as a secondary authentication process. If the test passes the logic moves to block to transparently to the user transfer the user back to the information server for further service e.g. for online banking transactions. On the other hand if the test at decision diamond fails the logic can move to block to challenge the user in accordance with principles set forth herein which challenge might be thought of as a tertiary authentication process. For instance an email or wireless telephone SMS message or outbound telephone call using IVR principles can be sent to the user containing a randomly generated single use only personal identification number PIN code that is supplied by the authentication server . This single use PIN code can then be sent by the user to the authentication server using the user computer to prove that the user is authorized access. The below described biometric information test may also be used to trigger this challenge or indeed after reception of the PIN code to further verify user authenticity.

If the challenge is met successfully at decision diamond the user is given the option at block of securing the specific machine being used for future use and then the user is redirected to the information server at block . Otherwise the process ends without giving the user access.

Now referring to in addition to e.g. at any convenient point in the logic or indeed in lieu of the logic of or geographic location can be used to determine whether to challenge a user to provide additional authentication information. In the example shown in the IP address of a computer attempting to gain access is received by the authentication server which accesses a database of IP addresses at block that correlates IP addresses to geographic location typically country state city and postal code. Other examples of geographic location can be ISP since the ISP has a location related to the user attempting to log on and time zone. In addition geographic location can be tied to a location type e.g. a cyber cafe. In any case the database may be obtained from or operated by an independent entity. Using the IP address as entering argument the geographic location associated with the IP address is obtained.

Proceeding to decision diamond it is determined whether the geographic location e.g. country and or state and or city and or postal code and or time zone and or ISP identity and or location type e.g. a cyber cafe is an approved location. This determination may take on several facets. For example a list of disapproved locations may be implemented and if the looked up geographic location is not on the list the test at decision diamond is positive. In additional or alternative embodiments a list of only approved locations may be implemented and only if the looked up geographic location is on the list is the test at decision diamond positive. Yet again a combination of the two lists may be used so that for example entire countries may be placed on a disapproved list and if the geographic location is not on the disapproved list the logic accesses an approved list to determine e.g. whether the particular postal code is an approved postal code or not.

One non limiting way to determine whether a location should be approved or not is to observe the IP addresses associated with failed log in attempts and note whether a disproportionate number of failed attempts comes from IP addresses associated with a particular location.

If the geographic location is approved access authorization is granted at block . In the alternative depending on where the logic of is implemented in conjunction with other authentication logic e.g. depending on where the geographic location logic is inserted into the flow of or the remaining authentication process is allowed to proceed.

In contrast if the geographic location is not approved the logic may simply end without granting access but more preferably the logic flows to block to issue a challenge such as one of the above mentioned challenges. The user s response to the challenge is tested at decision diamond for sufficiency and if the user successfully responds to the challenge the logic loops back to block . Otherwise access is denied at block .

In addition to using geographic location as a test biometric information may be used. For example the logic of may replace the geographic location test with a biometric test e.g. to determine whether the user s voice as might be received over a VoIP connection matches an approved voice. A successful match may precipitate access authorization or at least permission to undertake the remaining logic of or for instance. Other biometric tests such as eye recognition or fingerprint recognition may be used.

Now referring to in addition to the above logic logic may be provided to confirm for a user the authenticity of the website. Beginning at block the user establishes a secret with the web site. This unique secret is known only to the particular user and the site itself and may be a word sentence or random character string selected by the user. At block the web site stores the unique secret associated with the user s unique identifier in the web site s database i.e. secrets and respective user IDs are stored on a one to one relationship basis so that the secret may be displayed to the user when the user accesses web pages associated with the authentic web site.

Once the initial secret has been established at block a user must enter at least one unique identifier such as a user name and or a password. This identifier is referenced at block by the genuine website which recognizes the unique identifier. Once the unique identifier has been associated with the particular user the logic concludes at block where the secret associated with and recall determined by the particular user can be displayed on the page being viewed. In some implementations the secret is displayed on every subsequent page of the web site including the rest of the login pages such as a page where a password must be entered or any alternative or additional validation steps that may be associated with a login.

By displaying the unique secret the website enables the user to verify the authenticity of the site. A false or phished site would not display the unique secret on each page. Only an authentic site will display the unique secret on subsequent screens because the unique secret can only be produced by the authentic website. If the unique secret is not displayed or does not match the predetermined secret created at block then the user may determine that the site being displayed is not the authentic site the user intends to access and take steps accordingly such as alerting the user s bank by phone.

In some implementations the features above may be provided to customers of the system in what might be thought of as a cocktail approach in which a customer may select some features custom security questions defined security questions pass code sometimes referred to as a one time PIN via email pass code via SMS pass code via IVR pass code via voice biometrics and verification link and authentication criteria device ID I encrypted cookie login count location country state city and zip code as well as network information such as ISP and browser version to choose from based on their customer obtrusiveness and convenience and security what threats are they mostly concerned with needs.

Moreover the above described features are not necessarily constrained to Web applications. For example the systems and methods described above may be implemented in virtual private networks automatic teller machines operating systems PDNSmart Phone wireless devices and other non web applications.

As indicated above there may be times when the two factor authentication provided by the login information user ID and password and cookie information including machine ID and one use only login key may need to be supplemented by additional authentication steps. In addition the present invention provides a way for individual customer institutions e.g. banks to further tailor authentication if they so desire by requiring various authentication steps even when the login information and cookie information are found to be valid.

In other words some non limiting implementations of the present invention can adopt a holistic approach to authentication in providing an authentication framework with a unique set of security tools and configuration options for each customer. A number of different authentication challenges can be triggered when suspicious transactions policy violations or out of norm behavior is recognized. These security options can be customized by a client institution such as a bank and configured for different user groups through a centralized administration console in real time as shown in and described further below. The solution is completely software based and does not require any hardware tokens or client side software downloads although it could easily be extended to include non software based components. The solution can either be deployed onsite behind customer firewalls and proxies or as a service. This services based model allows organizations to invoke desired authentication services from anywhere in the world leveraging shared hardware and software resources from a centralized location. The solution delivers multi factor authentication through the use of every day devices that are already in the hands of end users such as cell phones home phones web connected computers and office phones. This dramatically lowers the cost and greatly reduced the complexity of providing strong authentication to a large diverse population. Example embodiments of the system can also provide end users with real time fraud alert that is triggered any time a fraudster is able to produce a password linked to a given user name.

As shown in a customer institution can use an enterprise customer computer to access an authentication options web site to select authentication features from a graphical user interface GUI such as the non limiting screen display shown in it being understood that the screen is provided by the web site to the enterprise customer computer . As shown one or more of a number of different authentication methods can be selected using the GUI including SMS delivered pass code to a wireless phone voice delivered pass code to a wireless or landline phone using IVR discussed further below in reference to voice delivered pass code to a wireless or landline phone using voice biometric speaker identification text delivered pass code to an email account user defined security questions institution defined security questions email delivered verification link and knowledge based authentication from both public and private data sources. In addition a number of configuration options may be provided to dictate criteria for when to provide stronger authentication by invoking further challenges on the end user. Those include in addition to checking for a proper device ID cookie login counts and patterns behavior analytics location based analytics via IP geo location and network based analytics and comparisons.

Furthermore the institution may be permitted to choose a number of additional configuration options for the voice biometric feature discussed below in reference to . This can include the number of devices required for enrollment whether enrollment is optional or required the frequency with which end users much re enroll the language the system speaks in to deliver the pass code the number to dial to access the voice system the expiration time of the session ID and the expiration time of the pass code. This authentication method can be used in combination with any other authentication method in the solution set.

As recognized herein this layered approach of providing authentication options for the customer institution to configure based on perceived security threats user intrusiveness flexibility and intuitiveness in real time provides an extremely powerful solution that allows the customer institution to maximize adoption and reinforce loyalty.

Beginning at block a registration screen is displayed to a user at login. In some embodiments the following logic may be invoked only upon receipt of proper login name and password and verification that the previously deposited cookie is present on the user s machine in accordance with above principles.

Assuming login and cookie verification are successful when these tests are required the logic moves to decision diamond to determine whether the particular institution into which the user is trying to gain access has imposed a further authentication requirement in the form of proper entry of a one time pass code that is different from the password described above. If not at block the user is permitted to enroll in a voice biometric program wherein if the user wishes to enroll he is prompted at block to call a predetermined phone number enter a session ID number if desired and repeat a predetermined phrase a predetermined number of times. The user s voice is recorded and correlated to the user s name and then the user is sent to the target page of the institution at block . When the user does not wish to enroll and no pass code is required by the institution the user is sent directly to the target page from block .

On the other hand when the institution has levied the additional requirement of proper receipt of a one time pass code the logic moves from decision diamond to block to present a challenge screen to the user demanding entry of the one time code. As mentioned above the pass code may be delivered via a secondary channel upon successful login in one of various ways e.g. by SMS text message to the user s phone email etc. In some implementations these are primary delivery mechanisms and the below described IVR is secondary in other implementations IVR is primary.

Block indicates that if the user is found to be enrolled in voice biometrics he can be permitted to choose to receive the pass code by voice biometrics. This might be the user s choice when for instance a primary pass code delivery mode did not work properly e.g. if the user s email server is down and the user cannot otherwise obtain the pass code for input. Or it can be the user s choice when the voice delivery of the pass code is the primary delivery mode.

If the user is not already enrolled in voice biometrics the logic can move to decision diamond to determine whether the user input the correct pass code on his user computer in response to the onscreen challenge at block . If not the challenge screen is presented again. If the user successfully input the pass code however the logic may move to block to allow the user to enroll in voice biometrics as described above eventually sending the user to the target page at block in accordance with previous disclosure.

Returning to block if the user is enrolled but elects not to retrieve the pass code via voice biometrics at decision diamond the user can be sent to the target page at block assuming proper entry at decision diamond of the pass code which has been delivered to the user by the other means discussed above. Of course as indicated by decision diamond if the user fails to enter to correct one time pass code in response to the challenge the process reverts to block .

If the user chooses to obtain the pass code by voice biometrics at decision diamond the process can move to block . A screen can be presented to the user prompting the user to call a predetermined phone number enter a session ID number if desired and repeat a predetermined phrase. If a match with the voice biometrics recorded during enrollment at block is found at decision diamond the logic may move to block to deliver the pass code to the user by automated voice over the phone. The logic of may be invoked for this purpose or the pass code may be immediately delivered in the same telephone call to the user. Upon proper entry of the pass code into the challenge screen the user can be directed to the target page at block . Failure of a voice biometric match at decision diamond may result in looping back to block as shown.

The user may update his test voice print if desired by being presented an update page which can be selected to re invoke the enrollment process discussed above. When analyzing the user s voice both during enrollment and subsequent pass code delivery the invention may analyze voice samples for both audio quality and consistency. End users must repeat the same phrase essentially the same way. If the samples have good audio quality and sound similar to each other they are accepted by the system.

Turning to the details of beginning at start state the system waits for a dial request at block . Web services application programming interfaces API can be used to accept call requests. If no valid request is received at decision diamond a message can be presented to the user at block to the effect that pass code delivery cannot be made.

On the other hand when a valid request is present at decision diamond the logic can move to block to dial the user s telephone number. If the phone is busy block A or there is no answer block B or there is a dial error block C the logic may move to decision diamond to determine if a dial retry count which equals the number of dial attempts made since a valid request was received at decision diamond equals a predetermined counter and if so the process ends at state . Otherwise the retry count may be incremented at block the systems can disconnect at block and then loop back to block to redial.

If at block a user s answering machine answers the call that was placed at block the logic can proceed to decision diamond to determine whether the institution and or user has permitted a pass code message to be left on the machine. If not the logic can move to decision diamond to proceed as explained above. If a message has been authorized however the logic can move to block to pause to wait for the recorded greeting to end and then to audibly deliver an introduction message if desired at block prior to audibly delivering the pass code at block along with a time for which the code will remain valid if this feature has been enabled by the institution. The process then ends at state .

If at block a user s live voice answers the call that was placed at block the logic may audibly deliver an introduction message if desired at block prior to audibly delivering the pass code at block . If a time for which the code will remain valid has been enabled by the institution as indicated by a negative test at decision diamond the user may be audibly informed at block of the length of time the code will remain valid. In either case the user may be given the option of repeating the code at block which if selected causes the logic to loop back to block . If desired a message repeat limit can be set in which case the logic can determine at decision diamond whether the message has repeated the predetermined number of times incrementing a repeat counter at block when it has not and otherwise ending at state when it has.

While the particular SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SECOND FACTOR AUTHENTICATION SERVICES is herein shown and described in detail it is to be understood that the subject matter which is encompassed by the present invention is limited only by the claims.

