---

title: Transformation engine
abstract: A transformation engine is disclosed that retrieves source data from a plurality of disparate data sources and provides source data that is consistent and normalized. the transformation engine comprises a plurality of interfaces that receive source data from a plurality of disparate databases. The source data comprises a plurality of data elements. The transformation engine further comprises a converter that aggregates and converts the received source data so that the plurality of data elements are recognizable as being substantially equivalent; a data processor that formats the received source data by merging and preparing the received source data; and a business rule applicator that filters the received source data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08631050&OS=08631050&RS=08631050
owner: Eliving, LLC
number: 08631050
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130308
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 813 752 filed Jun. 11 2010 titled TRANSFORMATION ENGINE which claims the benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 186 129 filed on Jun. 11 2009 and titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING NUTRITIONAL PRODUCTS both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 782 441 filed on May 18 2010 titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING NUTRITIONAL PRODUCTS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 153 658 filed on Jun. 6 2011 titled PERSONAL WELLBEING DEVICE AND SYSTEM. 

The present disclosure relates to a method a system and a computer program for aggregating and processing source data from disparate data sources and providing a normalized data set for determining user criteria.

The amount of wellness related data available today is vast and unstructured. For example in environments such as the Food and Drug Administration FDA United States Department of Agriculture USDA or the National Institute of Health NIH wellness related data is available in an unstructured uncorrelated and or incomplete form. Additionally numerous commercial applications exist that provide wellness related data that is incomplete because of commercial proprietary concerns.

The present disclosure provides a method a system and a computer program for retrieving source data which includes wellness related data from disparate data sources and consolidating aggregating and processing the retrieved source data to provide a unique data set for determining user criteria.

A method a system and a computer program are provided for accessing and retrieving source data from disparate data sources and then consolidating aggregating and processing the retrieved source data to provide a unique data set for determining user criteria.

According to an aspect of the disclosure a transformation engine is disclosed that retrieves source data from a plurality of disparate data sources and provides source data that is consistent and normalized. The transformation engine comprises a plurality of interfaces that receive source data from a plurality of disparate databases the source data comprising a plurality of data elements a converter that aggregates and converts the received source data so that the plurality of data elements are recognizable as being substantially equivalent a data processor that formats the received source data by merging and preparing the received source data and a business rule applicator that filters the received source data. The data processor may be configured to receive a first source data and a second source data and format the first source data or the second source data in accordance with an input format of the business rule applicator. The plurality of interfaces may comprise at least one of an application program interface an open database connectivity and an input output interface. The application program interface may access at least one of a USDA database an FDA database a PDR database an ADA database an MDM database an IM database an RDA RDI database a REF database and an RMMS database. The business rule applicator may be configured to filter the received source data based on input requirements of at least one of a nutrient caloric intake processor a drug interaction processor and a nutrient impact processor.

The transformation engine may further comprise a normalizer that analyzes a first source data and a second source data in the received source data and formats the first source data or the second source data so that a quantity of a first data element in the plurality of data elements is determined to be substantially equivalent to a quantity of a second data element.

According to a further aspect of the disclosure a method is disclosed for transforming source data received from a plurality of disparate data sources to source data that is consistent mapped and correlated. The method comprises receiving at a plurality of interfaces the source data from the plurality of disparate data sources the source data comprising a first data element and a second data element aggregating and converting the received source data from the plurality of disparate data source so that the first data element and the second data element are recognizable as being substantially equivalent parsing the aggregated and converted source data categorizing the parsed source data and applying a business rule to the categorized source data to output a filtered source data. The parsing of the aggregated and converted source data and the categorizing of the parsed source data may be performed in accordance with an input format of a business rule applicator.

The method may further comprise analyzing the received source data and formatting the received source data so that a quantity of the first data element is determined to be substantially equivalent to a quantity of a third data element.

The method may further comprise filtering the received source data based on input requirements of at least one of a nutrient caloric intake processor a drug interaction processor and a nutrient impact processor.

According to a still further aspect of the disclosure a transformation engine is disclosed. The transformation engine comprises a plurality of interfaces each of which is configured to receive source data from at least one of a plurality of disparate databases a converter configured to aggregate and convert source data received from the plurality of disparate databases so that a first data element and a second data element are recognizable as being substantially equivalent the received source data comprising the first data element and the second data element a data processor configured to merge and prepare the received source data and a business rule applicator configured to filter the source data. The data processor may be further configured to receive the source data and format the source data in accordance with an input format of the business rule applicator. The plurality of interfaces may comprise at least one of an application program interface an open database connectivity and an input output interface. The application program interface may be configured to access at least one of a USDA database an FDA database a PDR database an ADA database an MDM database an IM database an RDA RDI database a REF database and an RMMS database.

The transformation engine may further comprise a normalizer configured to analyze and format a quantity of the first data element and a quantity of a third data element as being substantially equivalent 

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the disclosure may be set forth or apparent from consideration of the detailed description and drawings. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the disclosure and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide further explanation without limiting the scope of the disclosure as claimed.

The disclosure and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments and examples that are described and or illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale and features of one embodiment may be employed with other embodiments as the skilled artisan would recognize even if not explicitly stated herein. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques may be omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the disclosure. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the disclosure may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the disclosure. Accordingly the examples and embodiments herein should not be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosure. Moreover it is noted that like reference numerals represent similar parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

A computer as used in this disclosure means any machine device circuit component or module or any system of machines devices circuits components modules or the like which are capable of manipulating data according to one or more instructions such as for example without limitation a processor a microprocessor a central processing unit a general purpose computer a super computer a personal computer a laptop computer a palmtop computer a notebook computer a desktop computer a workstation computer a server or the like or an array of processors microprocessors central processing units general purpose computers super computers personal computers laptop computers palmtop computers notebook computers desktop computers workstation computers servers or the like. Further the computer may include an electronic device configured to communicate over a communication link. the electronic device may include for example but is not limited to a mobile telephone a personal data assistant PDA a mobile computer a stationary computer a smart phone mobile station user equipment or the like.

A server as used in this disclosure means any combination of software and or hardware including at least one application and or at least one computer to perform services for connected clients as part of a client server architecture. The at least one server application may include but is not limited to for example an application program that can accept connections to service requests from clients by sending back responses to the clients. The server may be configured to run the at least one application often under heavy workloads unattended for extended periods of time with minimal human direction. The server may include a plurality of computers configured with the at least one application being divided among the computers depending upon the workload. For example under light loading the at least one application can run on a single computer. However under heavy loading multiple computers may be required to run the at least one application. The server or any if its computers may also be used as a workstation.

A database as used in this disclosure means any combination of software and or hardware including at least one application and or at least one computer. The database may include a structured collection of records or data organized according to a database model such as for example but not limited to at least one of a relational model a hierarchical model a network model or the like. The database may include a database management system application DBMS as is known in the art. The at least one application may include but is not limited to for example an application program that can accept connections to service requests from clients by sending back responses to the clients. The database may be configured to run the at least one application often under heavy workloads unattended for extended periods of time with minimal human direction.

A network as used in this disclosure means an arrangement of two or more communication links. A network may include for example the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a personal area network PAN a campus area network a corporate area network a global area network GAN a broadband area network BAN any combination of the foregoing or the like. The network may be configured to communicate data via a wireless and or a wired communication medium. The network may include any one or more of the following topologies including for example a point to point topology a bus topology a linear bus topology a distributed bus topology a star topology an extended star topology a distributed star topology a ring topology a mesh topology a tree topology or the like.

A communication link as used in this disclosure means a wired and or wireless medium that conveys data or information between at least two points. The wired or wireless medium may include for example a metallic conductor link a radio frequency RF communication link an Infrared IR communication link an optical communication link or the like without limitation. The RF communication link may include for example WiFi WiMAX IEEE 802.11 DECT 0G 1G 2G 3G or 4G cellular standards Bluetooth or the like.

The terms including comprising and variations thereof as used in this disclosure mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms a an and the as used in this disclosure means one or more unless expressly specified otherwise.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

Although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may be configured to work in alternate orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of the processes methods or algorithms described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device or article may be used in place of a single device or article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that a single device or article may be used in place of the more than one device or article. The functionality or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality or features.

A computer readable medium as used in this disclosure means any medium that participates in providing data for example instructions which may be read by a computer. Such a medium may take many forms including non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media may include dynamic random access memory DRAM . Transmission media may include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM to FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying sequences of instructions to a computer. For example sequences of instruction i may be delivered from a RAM to a processor ii may be carried over a wireless transmission medium and or iii may be formatted according to numerous formats standards or protocols including for example WiFi WiMAX IEEE 802.11 DECT 0G 1G 2G 3G or 4G cellular standards Bluetooth or the like.

The data sources may include disparate data sources such as for example United States Department of Agriculture USDA databases U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA databases Recommended Dietary Allowance RDA databases American Dietetic Association ADA data Morrison Diet Manual MDM databases Institutes of Medicine IM shown in Reference or Recommended Daily Intake RDI databases shown in National Institutes of Health NIH databases shown in and or other government or non government data sources . The data sources may further include for example REF databases not shown and recipe and menu management system RMMS databases not shown .

The CE includes a Transformation Engine TE a Profile Engine PE a Wellness Engine WE and an input output I O interface . The I O interface is configured to provide communication between the CE including the TE the PE and the WE and the outside world including the users and data sources through the network . The CE collects unique user information for each of the users . The users may provide the user information by means of for example a smart device such as for example the smart device described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 61 363 468 filed on Jul. 12 2010. The user information for a particular user may include for example the user s height the user s gender the user s date of birth DOB the user s family history the user s race the user s weight the user s goals and food history the user s lifestyle criteria the drug or medications taken by the user the dosage s of the drug or medications taken the food supplements and herbs consumed by the user the user s medical condition s the user s allergies and the like.

The TE may include for example one or more application program interfaces APIs open database connectivity ODBC or other transport mechanisms as understood by those having ordinary skill in the art. The TE is configured to access the one or more data sources and retrieve source data from the data sources . The TE is further configured to consolidate aggregate and process the retrieved source data to provide a unique data set for determining user criteria. Specifically on the basis of the user information provided by the users the TE converts and normalizes the source data. The source data may include for example food and nutrition data food supplements data herbs data dietary health data demographic data over the counter OTC drug data prescription data medical condition data allergy data lifestyle data for example smoking alcoholic intake exercise activity sleeping patterns or the like or the like and any related research guidelines discussions publications blogs laws rules or the like related to the foregoing types of data. The TE is configured to convert and normalize the source data into user criteria which may include for example normlized formatted data guidelines and thresholds established for managing specific factors associated with demographics drugs medical conditions allergies or the like.

The PE is configured to receive the user criteria from the TE and analyze the user information provided by the users with regard to the user criteria to determine a unique user profile for each user . Each user profile may be based on for example input selections provided during an initial user information capture session. The user profile for each user may be updated as the associated user information changes over time. The user profile may be supplied from the PE to the WE .

The PE may interact with each user to capture the user information from each user . The captured user information may then be used to generate or update the user profile for each user . The PE may provide a profile analysis to each user across a wide spectrum of product and or service offerings from both internal and or external environments that match the user information. In this regard the PE may for example compare and match the unique medical condition of a user with the specified factors associated with the medical condition. The PE may then tag specific drugs nutrients ingredients programs and the like which should be avoided or encouraged depending on the user information of the user with a code. The PE may output the resultant profile analysis data in the form of the user profile to the WE and or the user . The user profile may include a unique user identifier for interaction with the CE . The user profile may include hundreds or more or less demographic and tagged items derived from the user information provided by the users .

The WE is configured to receive and analyze the ingredient profile and filter product and or service offerings to fit the user information for each user . The resultant filtered conditional based products and or services which may span across the wellness and nutrition spectra including for example a meal plan a diet plan a recipe a nutritional conflict an exercise routine or the like may be provided to the users . The product and or service offerings may include for example a recipe a diet plan a menu plan a prepared meal for example from art internal and or external partner exercise programs or plans exercise equipment and the like. The WE may provide a culmination of a detailed conditional analysis that may tailor substantially all products and or services offered to each user in the CS .

A computer readable medium not shown may be provided that includes a computer program which when executed by a computer may cause each of the processes performed in the CE shown in to be carried out according to the principles of the disclosure. The computer readable medium may include an instruction for example code section or code segment corresponding to each of the processes.

The WE receives the user profile and filters product and or service offerings to fit the user information of the user Step . The product and or service offerings may include for example a recipe a diet plan a menu plan a prepared meal for example from an internal and or external partner exercise programs or plans exercise equipment and the like.

All three components including the TE the PE and the WE make up the CE . The CE provides a tailored approach to wellness nutrition and diet for each user . The CE may be used in the contract food services such as for example health care assisted living communities or the like or the like.

According to a further aspect of the disclosure a computer program may be provided embodied in a computer readable medium which when executed on a computer in the CE or TE or PE or WE may cause Steps through of the process to be carried out. The computer readable medium may include a code section or segment associated with each of the Steps through .

The I O units may include for example one or more application programming interfaces API s an open database connectivity ODBC or other transport mechanisms as understood by those having ordinary skill in the art which are configured to access and retrieve data from various disparate data sources including the one or more data sources . The I O units are configured to provide communication between the Transformation engine and the plurality of disparate data sources . The I O units include an interface not shown associated with each unique data source to be accessed wherein each interface is configured to access the associated data source and retrieve relevant source data from the data source . In this regard the I O units may use available API s to access the data sources and where API s are not available the I O units may use an ODBC or other transport mechanism to access the data sources .

The converter normalizer is configured to access and capture source data via the I O units in a consistent form from the different data sources . The converter normalizer may capture source data related but not limited to for example foods nutrition drugs herbs supplements diseases medical conditions genetics allergies gender race ethnicity nationality age height weight percentage body fat exercise programs lifestyles occupations education and the like. The converter normalizer may apply one or more conversion algorithms to the source data received from the data sources to ensure that the transformed data fits a predetermined application model. A function of the conversion algorithms is to make the data consistent. For instance source data from RDA database s may provide a caloric intake given a certain range for example height range weight range age range or the like and the FDA database s may provide total amounts of intake given a certain drug. The converter normalizer may analyze both sets of source data and format the source data in a manner that the application model may recognize the two elements as being substantially equivalent.

The application model or profile may include the desired end state output of the CE . The application model establishes the thresholds that the various data elements will be measured against. Since the source data from the various data sources will have been made consistent and normalized the CE may establish specific boundaries for conditions created or provided by a user.

For example the data received from the DRI may be provided in micrograms g and the data received from the USDA may be provided in international units IU for example N IU X g where N is a positive real number and X is a positive real number for a mass of the particular element or compound corresponding to the quantity N of IUs for the element or compound . The converter normalizer may analyze both sets of source data from the DRI and USDA and format the source data and provide the formatted data in IU s or g s.

The converter normalizer may also apply one or more normalization algorithms to ensure source data consistency through the process. For instance the source data received from the USDA database s may provide an ingredient or nutrient quantity and spell the name of the ingredient for example Vitamin D or nutrient quantities differently than for example the source data provided by the RDA database s for the same ingredient for example Vit. D or nutrient quantities. The converter normalizer may analyze both sets of source data and format the data in a manner that the application model may recognize the ingredient for example Vitamin D or nutrient quantities as being substantially equivalent.

For example the converter normalizer may access the Council for Responsible Nutrition database which provides the dietary reference intakes DRI and upper limits UL for vitamin and mineral recommendations shown below in Table 1. The converter normalizer may also access the NIH database which provides the selected food sources of Vitamin D shown below in Table 2.

The data processor is configured to receive the converted and normalized source data from the converter normalizer and prepare the converted and normalized source data for use by the business rule applicator . The data processor formats the converted and normalized source data in the form of meta data and technical data. For example the data processor may parse and categorize the source technical data into a plurality of categories that may be used by the business rule applicator as well as the CS shown in including for example height data weight data age data percentage body fat data gender data race data ethnicity data nationality data allergy data disease data medical condition data medical history data family history data genetic data and the like foods data nutrition data ingredients data drug data prescription or non prescription herbs data food supplements data drink data occupation data education data lifestyle data for example physical activity data smoking data alcohol consumption data or the like and the like nutrient interaction data drug interaction data ingredient interaction data nutrient drug interaction data food nutrient drug interaction data food nutrient allergy interaction data and the like and the like. The data processor may merge and compare the source data received from the various data sources depending on the requests made from the CE . The data processor may ensure that

The business rule applicator is configured to receive the processed source data from the data processor carry out validations and filter the processed source data based on rules associated with one or more calling processes. When a request is made by the CE for a certain table in the RDA and the FDA the business rule applicator ensures that the correct source data is received and processed by the CE . For example based on a demographic data a drug data and a condition state data received from a particular user the business rule applicator may ensure that only source data that is relevant to the particular demographic data drug data and condition state data is received from the various data sources and processed by the CE . The business rule applicator may ensure that CE receives and process source data that it needs to fully process a profile for the particular user.

The data output by the business rule applicator may include information that is relevant to the one or more calling processes. The calling processes may include for example a process for identifying and determining a drug impact a process for identifying and determining a drug interaction a process for identifying and determining a nutrient or ingredient impact a process for identifying and determining a nutrient or ingredient interaction an allergy impact and the like.

For example while all source data may be available to a process for identifying and determining a drug impact only the nutrient information may be pertinent to a process for identifying and determining a drug nutrient interaction. Accordingly the business rule applicator may exclude for example irrelevant drug impact source data from the processed source data supplied to a module in the CS tasked with identifying and determining a drug nutrient interaction such as for example the Food Nutrient Drug processor in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 732 441 filed May 18 2010. The business rule applicator may similarly filter the source data to provide relevant information to the other calling processes including for example processes for identifying and determining a nutrient or ingredient impact or interaction an allergy impact and the like.

The business rule applicator may include artificial intelligence AI including for example fuzzy logic neural networks genetic algorithms and the like. The AI may be configured to learn and adapt weighting rules based on historical data and or direct training by an expert through for example a human machine interface HMI or the like.

The filtered source data may then be output by the TE to the PE and or WE shown in . The PE and or WE may receive the filtered source data from the TE and filter product and or service offerings to fit the user information for each of the users shown in . The product and or service offerings may include for example a recipe a diet plan a menu plan a prepared meal for example from an internal and or external partner exercise programs or plans exercise equipment and the like.

Referring to the transformation engine TE accesses a plurality of disparate data sources for example databases via a network Step . The TE may retrieve source data from one or more of the plurality of data sources Step . The retrieved source data may include one or more data elements related but not limited to for example foods nutrition drugs herbs supplements diseases medical conditions genetics allergies gender race ethnicity nationality age height weight percentage body fat lifestyles occupations education and the like. The data elements may include for example an identifier for example a name a number or the like a quantity for example a mass a weight a time a volume or the like and the like. For instance a data element may include a nutrient name a recommended daily intake of the nutrient a name of another nutrient ingredient drug food supplement herb or the like that may interact with the nutrient and the like. Each retrieved source data may include a plurality of data elements.

The TE may apply one or more conversion algorithms to the source data to ensure that the transformed data fits a predetermined application model Step . For instance source data from RDA database s may provide a caloric intake given a certain range for example height range weight range age range or the like in international units IU s and the FDA database s may provide total amounts of intake given a certain drug in microgram mass units g . The TE may analyze both sets of source data and format the source data in a manner that the application model may recognize the two elements as being substantially equivalent.

The TE may apply one or more normalization algorithms to ensure source data consistency through the process Step . For instance the source data received from the USDA database s may provide an ingredient or nutrient quantity and spell the name of the ingredient for example Vitamin D or nutrient quantities differently than for example the source data provided by the RDA database s for the same ingredient for example Vit. D or nutrient quantities. The TE may analyze both sets of source data and format the data in a manner that the application model may recognize the ingredient or nutrient quantities as being substantially equivalent.

The TE may next process the converted and normalized source data and prepare the converted and normalized source data for application of one or more business rules Step . For example the TE may parse and categorize the source data into a plurality of categories to which the business rules may be applied.

After the converted and normalized source data has been processed the TE may apply one or more business rules Step . The TE may also carry out validations and filter the processed source data based on rules associated with one or more calling processes. The calling processes may include for example a process for identifying and determining a drug impact a process for identifying and determining a drug interaction a process for identifying and determining a nutrient or ingredient impact a process for identifying and determining a nutrient or ingredient interaction an allergy impact and the like.

For example while all source data may be available to a process for identifying and determining a drug impact only the nutrient information may be pertinent to a process for identifying and determining a drug nutrient interaction. Accordingly the TE may exclude for example irrelevant drag impact source data from the processed source data supplied to a module in the CS tasked with identifying and determining a drug nutrient interaction.

The filtered source data may then be sent from TE to the PE and or WE Step where a used profile may be generated and or updated.

According to a further aspect of the disclosure a computer program may be provided embodied in a computer readable medium which when executed on a computer in the TE or CE may cause Steps through to be carried out. The computer readable medium may include a code section or segment associated with each of the Steps through .

Although the disclosure has been provided with reference to several embodiments it is understood that the words that have been used are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Changes may be made within the purview of the appended claims as presently stated without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure in its aspects. Although the disclosure has been described with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the disclosure is not limited to the particulars disclosed rather the disclosure extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims. These examples are merely illustrative and are not meant to be an exhaustive list of all possible designs embodiments applications or modifications of the disclosure.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs running on a computer. Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein.

While the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same functions are considered equivalent.

