---

title: Jabba-type contextual tagger
abstract: Example methods, apparatuses, or articles of manufacture are disclosed that may be implemented, in whole or in part, using one or more computing devices to facilitate or otherwise support one or more processes or operations for a Jabba-type contextual tagger.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09530094&OS=09530094&RS=09530094
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09530094
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present disclosure relates generally to search engine content management systems and more particularly to a Jabba type contextual tagger for use in or with search engine content management systems.

The Internet is widespread. The World Wide Web or simply the Web provided by the Internet is growing rapidly at least in part from the large amount of content being added seemingly on a daily basis. A wide variety of content such as one or more electronic documents for example is continually being identified located retrieved accumulated stored or communicated. Various information databases including for example knowledge bases or other collections of content Web based or otherwise have become commonplace as have related communication networks or computing resources that help users to access relevant information. Effectively or efficiently identifying or locating content of interest may facilitate or support information seeking behavior of users and may lead to an increased usability of a search engine.

With a large amount of content being available a number of tools may often be provided to allow for copious amounts of information to be searched through in an efficient or effective manner. For example service providers may allow users to search the Web or other networks databases or other data repositories etc. using search engines. In some instances a search engine may for example utilize one or more sequence or like taggers such as a Hidden Markov Model HMM Conditional Random Fields CRF or the like to facilitate or support locating relevant content. At times however sequence or like taggers may require machine learning from a statistically sufficient amount of training data for example which may be labor intensive. In addition an output of a sequence or like tagger may be the result of a statistical process employing certain approximations or assumptions such as with respect to sequence distributions for example which may be computationally expensive or otherwise error prone. A dictionary type tagging may be less ambiguous but may label words or phrases corresponding to a search query regardless of its context however.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Some example methods apparatuses or articles of manufacture are disclosed herein that may be used in whole or in part to facilitate or support one or more processes or operations for a Jabba type contextual tagger such as in connection with Jabba language for example. Briefly Jabba is a novel language for matching or generating sequences of text such as structured text for example as well as for associating actions to one or more match events. For purposes of explanation somewhat similarly to how regular expressions RE match sequences of characters or specify actions e.g. store matched segments in pattern buffers etc. Jabba language or Jabba may be used at least in part to match sequences of atoms as well as associate relatively complex actions with one or more suitable match processes. As used herein Jabba atoms or simply atoms may be used interchangeably and may refer to one or more text fragments that may be classified or tagged such as via a Jabba type contextual tagger for example with one or more attributes. An atom may comprise for example a structured text fragment such as a string of text a class that may also be represented via a string e.g. place name etc. a set of key value attributes e.g. place type city is unique false etc. or any combination thereof. As illustrated in some instances an attribute may comprise for example a string key associated with a JavaScript Object Notation JSON value though claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Depending on an implementation a Jabba rule may for example be built up or created from a Boolean match expression that may facilitate or support matching one or more aspects of a candidate atom. For ease of understanding a Jabba atom may be conceptually thought of as a structural equivalent of a character in RE and a Jabba rule may be thought of as a named equivalent of an RE pattern. Likewise Jabba match expressions may for example be conceptualized as characters or character classes in RE patterns for example except that Jabba match expressions may comprise arbitrary Boolean functions on different parts of a candidate atom. As a way of illustration the search query London pictures may be tokenized via one or more appropriate techniques processed via a suitable entity recognizer and broken into a sequence of two Jabba atoms as for example 

Jabba actions may for example cause callbacks to a client to be invoked. For example one or more callbacks may be specified via Jabba to map one or more Jabba actions into application specific functionality. If a match is found for example a client may receive a callback comprising a name of a Jabba rule that matched as well as all triggered actions. Although claimed subject matter is not necessarily limited in scope in this respect additional example embodiments or techniques that may be used at least in part to match sequences of atoms and associate actions with various match processes via Jabba language along with related technology may be discussed in concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 842 826 titled JABBA LANGUAGE filed on Mar. 15 2013 by Coalson herein incorporated by reference in its entirety and assigned to the assignee of currently claimed subject matter.

As alluded to previously rich or otherwise sufficient matching or action semantics may allow Jabba to be advantageously integrated into a number of text processing or modeling applications which may include for example a Jabba type contextual tagger. As used herein Jabba type contextual tagger contextual tagger or simply tagger may be used interchangeably and may refer to one or more processes or operations capable of identifying of one or more words symbols or other linguistic characters or any combination thereof in text such as structured text for example as corresponding to a search query or like text input. As will be described in greater detail below a Jabba type contextual tagger may label one or more parts of a search query or like text input for example while taking other one or more parts of the query etc. into account. As was indicated in some instances a Jabba type contextual tagger may for example be used at least in part in connection with an on line search performed via a suitable search engine. As used herein on line may refer to a type of a communication that may be implemented electronically via one or more communications networks such as for example the Internet an intranet a communication device network or the like. Communications networks may comprise for example a wireless network wired network or any combination thereof.

Briefly a search engine may typically comprise a computing platform that may for example help a user to locate retrieve match etc. content of interest. In some instances content may include for example on line content such as one or more web documents of a particular interest. As used herein web document or electronic document may be used interchangeably and may refer to one or more digital signals such as communicated or stored signals for example representing a source code text image audio video file or the like. As a way of illustration web documents may include a web page a news feed a rating or review post a status update a portal a blog an e mail a text message an Extensible Markup Language XML document a web page pointed to by a Uniform Resource Locator URL a collection of user generated content etc. just to name a few examples. At times web documents may include one or more embedded references or hyperlinks to images audio or video files or other web documents. One common type of reference may comprise for example a URL.

In some instances text patterns associated with web documents may for example be matched to a search query or like text input via one or more processing operations in connection with a suitable search engine such as an on line search engine pattern matching search engine etc. or any combination thereof. For example a search engine may interpret one or more provided syntax rules and may perform one or more matching operations with respect to a target character string buffer file web document etc. Search results of one or more matching operations may comprise for example one or more web documents presented to a user e.g. via a graphical user interface in an ascending or descending order of relevance. In some instances search results may comprise for example one or more match or no match values representative of respective found or not found Boolean results. Of course these are merely details relating to search engines and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

As alluded to previously at times typical sequence taggers such as HMM CRF or the like may require a statistically sufficient amount of training data for example and their outputs may be the result of a relatively complex statistical process. Again this may be time consuming or computationally expensive. Accordingly it may be desirable to develop one or more methods systems or apparatuses that may implement a more effective or efficient contextual tagger such as with little or no machine learning from training data for example.

Thus as described below one or more suitable parts of a search query or like text input may for example be labeled via a Jabba type contextual tagger while taking other one or more parts of the search query or like text input into account. In at least one implementation one or more labeled sequences may for example be defined via one or more suitable Jabba patterns. One or more slot names may for example be utilized at least in part to generate one or more labels or tags as will also be seen. As used herein label or tag may be used interchangeably and may refer to one or more identifying terms descriptive of an electronic document or a portion thereof that may enable locating such a document or portion in response to a search query or like text input. For example a label or tag may comprise one or more words characters symbols etc. identifying a location of an electronic document or portion thereof within a search index just to illustrate one possible implementation. Since a Jabba type contextual tagger may for example be capable of defining labeled sequences directly via Jabba patterns machine learning from training data may not be needed or otherwise useful. Providing a mechanism in which a number of known sequences may be precisely labeled using concise Jabba patterns may also improve or otherwise complement statistical taggers for example. In addition because an entire sequence may be specified via one or more Jabba rules labels are typically although not necessarily contextual meaning that labels may for example be applied if an entire sequence matches.

As illustrated computing environment may include one or more special purpose computing platforms such as for example a Content Integration System CIS that may be operatively coupled to a communications network that a user may employ to communicate with CIS by utilizing resources . CIS may be implemented in connection with one or more public networks e.g. the Internet etc. private networks e.g. intranets etc. public or private search engines Real Simple Syndication RSS or Atom Syndication Atom type applications etc. just to name a few examples.

Resources may comprise for example one or more special purpose computing client devices such as a desktop computer laptop computer cellular telephone smart telephone personal digital assistant or the like capable of communicating with or otherwise having access to the Internet via a wired or wireless communications network. Resources may include a browser and a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI for example that may for example initiate transmission of a search query or like text input represented via one or more electrical digital signals. User interface may interoperate with any suitable input device e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen digitizing stylus etc. or output device e.g. display speakers etc. for interaction with resources . Even though a certain number of resources are illustrated it should be appreciated that any number of resources may be operatively coupled to CIS such as via communications network for example.

In an implementation CIS may employ a crawler to access network resources that may include suitable content of any one of a host of possible forms e.g. web pages search query logs status updates location check ins audio video image structured or unstructured text files etc. such as in the form of stored or communicated binary digital signals for example. Crawler may store all or part of a located web document e.g. a URL link etc. in a database for example. CIS may further include a search engine supported by a suitable index such as a search index for example and operatively enabled to search for content obtained via network resources . Search engine may for example communicate with user interface and may retrieve for display via resources a listing of search results via accessing for example network resources database search index etc. such as in response to a search query or like text input. Network resources may include suitable content as was indicated such as represented by stored digital signals for example accessible via the Internet one or more intranets or the like. For example network resources may comprise one or more web pages web portals status updates electronic messages databases or like collection of stored electronic information.

CIS may further include a tagger such as a Jabba type contextual tagger for example as referenced generally at . As alluded to previously tagger may label one or more parts of a search query or like text input for example while taking other one or more parts of the search query or like text input into account. Tagger may for example utilize one or more Jabba patterns that may directly specify a suitable or desired sequence of candidate atoms to be matched to a search query or like text input as described below. This may eliminate or reduce ambiguity inherent in machine learning since knowledge may be introduced directly such as via a less ambiguous Jabba pattern for example rather than inferred or imputed indirectly via learning assumptions or approximations. In some instances labeling one or more parts of a search query or like text input may for example be performed during one or more indexing or crawling operations using one or more appropriate techniques though claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example optionally or alternatively one or more Jabba patterns may be compiled into a suitable state machine associated with computing environment such as a nondeterministic finite automaton NDFA just to illustrate one possible implementation. In some instances a state machine may comprise a sequence recognizer making callbacks for each match for example with all the match actions. Tagger may create a sequence of tags with one or more names taken from Jabba slot names of a match result for example and may add one or more tag attributes for each general assignment as will also be seen. Particular examples of Jabba type contextual tagging slot names as well as general assignments will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

At times it may be potentially advantageous to utilize one or more real time or near real time indexing or searching techniques for example so as to keep a suitable index e.g. search index database etc. sufficiently updated. In this context real time may refer to an amount of timeliness of content which may have been delayed by for example an amount of time attributable to electronic communication as well as other signal processing. For example CIS may be capable of subscribing to one or more social networking platforms news feeds location check in services or other content on line or otherwise via a content feed . In some instances content feed may comprise for example a live feed though claimed subject matter is not so limited. As such CIS may for example be capable of receiving streaming periodic or asynchronous updates via a suitable application programming interface API associated with network resources . In some implementations network resources may include a suitable pattern matching library e.g. C etc. which may provide an API for compiling Jabba patterns into a suitable state machine as was indicated. Again claimed subject matter is not limited in this regard.

As previously mentioned in some instances it may be desirable to rank retrieved web documents so as to assist in presenting relevant or useful content such as one or more electronic documents of interest for example in response to a search query or like text input. Accordingly CIS may employ one or more ranking functions that may rank search results in a particular order that may be based at least in part on keyword relevance recency usefulness popularity or the like including any combination thereof. In some instances ranking functions may for example facilitate or support obtaining or providing one or more match or no match values representative of respective found or not found Boolean results as was also indicated. As seen CIS may further include a processor that may for example be capable of executing computer readable code or instructions implement suitable operations or processes etc. associated with example environment .

As a way of illustration in operative use a user may access a search engine website such as www.yahoo.com for example and may submit or input a search query by utilizing resources . Browser may initiate communication of one or more electrical digital signals representing a search query from resources to CIS such as via communications network for example. CIS may for example look up search index and may establish a listing of web documents relevant to a search query based at least in part on tagger ranking function s database or the like. CIS may further communicate search results to resources such as for displaying via user interface for example.

In an implementation to facilitate one or more operations or techniques of process the following conventions with respect to Jabba and a Jabba type contextual tagger may for example be employed or otherwise considered in whole or in part.

An atom may comprise for example the smallest unit of meaning that may be labeled. As was indicated in this context an atom may refer to a text fragment that may be classified or tagged with one or more attributes. For example a word of a search query rather than a letter may comprise or be considered an atom since typically although not necessarily words may convey meaning better than letters. Claimed subject matter is not limited to such an observation of course. For example in some instances a suitable symbol or character may comprise or be considered an atom if appropriate meaning may be sufficiently conveyed via such a symbol or character.

A Jabba rule may for example define all possible sequences with a given labeling. As used herein a Jabba rule may refer to one or more named terms. In some instances a Jabba rule may for example identify an overall meaning for an interpretation and create slots for relevant parts of the interpretation to serve as pointers for a consumer of the interpretation to work back to original spans of interest that contribute to that meaning. As a way of illustration at times a Jabba rule may be represented via for example a name on the left hand side and a match term on the right terminated by a semicolon or 

Here the simplest term may comprise a single match expression such as a dot for example which may match any atom somewhat similarly to matching any character in RE. Each match expression may for example match more atoms in which case the counting character may for example be used. Thus consider image . Again additional non limiting examples of Jabba rules along with related technology may be discussed in concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 842 826 titled JABBA LANGUAGE filed on Mar. 15 2013 by Coalson herein incorporated by reference in its entirety and assigned to the assignee of currently claimed subject matter.

Jabba slot actions may for example generate a label with a given slot name corresponding to a subset of atoms in an input matched by a term. For example for each part of a Jabba pattern that matches one or more slot actions may be assigned to facilitate or support generating a label with a given slot name. For ease of understanding Jabba slot actions may for example have some semantic similarity to GSL slots though claimed subject matter is not so limited of course.

Jabba general assignments may for example provide one or more finer grained attributes to a label. A general assignment may comprise for example a type of action that may allow assigning one or more arbitrary key value pairs in a domain object. A general assignment may for example facilitate or support associating arbitrary key value pairs in one or more match actions. General assignments may be represented via an equals sign as for example 

This action sequence may for example create a name slot and a general assignment of unknown to the type key. Providing finer grained attributes such as via associating additional metadata with a label for example may be useful for determining contexts of relatively ambiguous search queries e.g. Chicago pizza etc. as will also be seen. The above conventions as well as how one or more Jabba elements may correspond to a tagging process such as via a Jabba type contextual tagger for example will be better understood in connection with one or more operations or techniques of example process described below.

Thus at operation one or more digital signals representative of a rule defining one or more sequences of candidate atoms may for example be accessed. As was indicated a rule may be defined via one or more Jabba patterns specifying how one or more sequences of candidate atoms may be labeled for example. A Jabba rule may be stored as one or more digital signals in a suitable memory or like data repository e.g. as Jabba patterns of etc. that may be accessed by a suitable process such as process or like process associated with a Jabba type contextual tagger for example. By way of example but not limitation the following Jabba rule may be used at least in part to specify how some sequences of candidate atoms may be labeled in a product context 

As was indicated this or like rule may be accessed by a suitable process for example to facilitate or support matching a sequence of candidate atoms such as directly via one or more actual strict matches. This may eliminate or reduce ambiguity of machine learning for example and may provide a context for more effective or efficient labeling of candidate atoms such as directly via Jabba patterns as was indicated. It should be noted that in some instances a sequence of candidate atoms may comprise for example an unordered sequence associated with a search query or like text input just to illustrate one possible implementation.

With regard to operation one or more digital signals representative of one or more labels may for example be generated based at least in part on one or more slot actions having at least one slot name associated with a rule. Continuing with the above example the specified Jabba rule may for example match the query 16 GB ipod nano for sale with at least three slot actions facilitating or supporting the following labeling 

As illustrated via the Jabba pattern for each of these matches e.g. 16 GB ipod nano etc. a Jabba slot notation such as in slots product or model etc. may for example be employed. This may cause one or more callbacks with a respective action sequence to be invoked as previously mentioned. For this example based at least in part on a potential match with respective parts or fragments of the above search query e.g. candidate atoms Jabba may implement a callback for the slot product and a label with the given slot name product may for example be generated. Likewise callbacks with respect to slots model capacity and for sale may for example be implemented and respective labels with these given slot names may for example be generated using similar techniques. It should be noted that generating a label with respect to the for sale or simply sale slot may be optional in certain implementations. Of course these are merely details relating to generating a label via one or more Jabba slot actions and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

At operation at least one of these one or more candidate atoms may for example be electronically tagged with at least one of these one or more labels based at least in part on a match with respect to at least one entire sequence of one or more sequences of candidate atoms. As previously mentioned a concise Jabba pattern may specify the entire sequence of candidate atoms to be matched for example which may provide a context for more effective or efficient tagging such as if the entire sequence of candidate atoms matches. Continuing with the above example thus a suitable value of the label product may be assigned to a part or fragment of the search query e.g. an atom covered by the match such as the ipod for example to electronically tag this candidate atom. Similar techniques may be implemented to electronically tag candidate atoms 16 GB nano or the like. Again claimed subject matter is not limited to these particular patterns or atoms.

In some instances one or more additional attributes may for example be associated or added to a label such as via operation or any combination thereof. For example in at least one implementation one or more Jabba general assignments may be used at least in part to facilitate or support adding more details to a label. By way of example but not limitation the expanded version of the above Jabba rule using a Jabba general assignment to associate or add an additional attribute to a label is illustrated below. Thus consider for example 

As seen a short hand notation may for example be used at least in part to facilitate or support matching any suitable atom covered by a specified match pattern. Here one or more backtracking operations with respect to one or more callbacks may for example be employed such as to minimize computation. Backtracking may for example occur as a suitable machine e.g. NDFA etc. finds one or more matches in an input atom sequence rather than in an action handling e.g. after one or more matches are found etc. . For this example a suitable text string may be extracted using one or more appropriate techniques based at least in part on an assigned label e.g. product etc. with respect to one or more atoms covered by a match e.g. ipod etc and an additional attribute may be assigned or added to such a label based at least in part on a general assignment e.g. type electronics . One or more additional attributes may for example be associated with or added to a label in the form of a metadata just to illustrate one possible implementation. Thus as seen in the above example the product label on the ipod may for example include an extra attached attribute of type electronics to indicate that the search query may be related to electronic products. This may for example be useful for on line searching in general or for determining contexts of relatively ambiguous search queries e.g. Chicago pizza etc. in particular as was also indicated.

As previously mentioned in at least one implementation a Jabba type contextual tagger may for example be implemented by compiling one or more Jabba patterns into a state machine e.g. NDFA etc. then for each search query tokenizing the search query into atoms with class token and running one or more token sequences through such a machine. A state machine may make one or more callbacks for each match for example with all the match actions. A suitable tagger s callback handler may then create a sequence of labels or tags for example whose names are taken from Jabba slot names of a match result and may add one or more suitable tag attributes for each general assignment as discussed above. One or more tags or tag attributes may be stored as one or more digital signals in a suitable data repository such as a tag object comprising a class detected or specified via one or more additional attributes for example.

Second device may include at least one processing unit that may be operatively coupled to a memory through a bus . Processing unit may represent one or more circuits to perform at least a portion of one or more applicable computing operations or processes. For example depending on an implementation processing unit may facilitate or support accessing one or more digital signals representative of a rule defining one or more sequences of candidate atoms such as in a manner discussed above. In addition in some instances processing unit may be capable of generating one or more digital signals representative of one or more labels based at least in part on one or more slot actions having at least one slot name associated with a rule. This may for example facilitate or support electronically tagging at least one of these candidate atoms with at least one of these one or more labels based at least in part on a match with respect to at least one entire sequence of one or more sequences of candidate atoms as was also discussed.

Memory may represent any signal storage mechanism or appliance. For example memory may include a primary memory and a secondary memory . Primary memory may include for example a random access memory read only memory etc. In certain implementations secondary memory may be operatively receptive of or otherwise have capability to be coupled to a computer readable medium . In some instances memory or any portion thereof may comprise for example a non transitory memory as discussed below and may be used at least in part for storing one or more Jabba patterns tagged attributes labels or the like.

Computer readable medium may include for example any medium that may store or provide access to content or like signals such as for example code or instructions for one or more devices in operating environment . It should be understood that a storage medium may typically although not necessarily be non transitory or may comprise a non transitory device. In this context a non transitory storage medium may include for example a device that is physical or tangible meaning that the device has a concrete physical form although the device may change state. For example one or more electrical binary digital signals representative of content in whole or in part in the form of zeros may change a state to represent content in whole or in part as binary digital electrical signals in the form of ones to illustrate one possible implementation. As such non transitory may refer for example to any medium or device remaining tangible despite this change in state.

Second device may include for example a communication adapter or interface that may provide for or otherwise support communicative coupling of second device to a network . Second device may include for example an input output device . Input output device may represent one or more devices or features that may be able to accept or otherwise input human or machine instructions or one or more devices or features that may be able to deliver or otherwise output human or machine instructions.

According to an implementation one or more portions of an apparatus such as second device for example may store one or more binary digital electronic signals representative of content expressed as a particular state of a device such as for example second device . For example an electrical binary digital signal representative of content may be stored in a portion of memory by affecting or changing a state of particular memory locations for example to represent content as binary digital electronic signals in the form of ones or zeros. As such in a particular implementation of an apparatus such a change of state of a portion of a memory within a device such a state of particular memory locations for example to store a binary digital electronic signal representative of content constitutes a transformation of a physical thing for example memory device to a different state or thing.

Thus as illustrated in various example implementations or techniques presented herein in accordance with certain aspects a method may be provided for use as part of a special purpose computing device or other like machine that accesses digital signals from memory or processes digital signals to establish transformed digital signals which may be stored in memory as part of one or more content files or a database specifying or otherwise associated with a suitable index.

Some portions of the detailed description herein are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on binary digital signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally is considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations or similar signal processing leading to a desired result. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the discussion herein it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other content storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

Terms and and or as used herein may include a variety of meanings that also is expected to depend at least in part upon the context in which such terms are used. Typically or if used to associate a list such as A B or C is intended to mean A B and C here used in the inclusive sense as well as A B or C here used in the exclusive sense. In addition the term one or more as used herein may be used to describe any feature structure or characteristic in the singular or may be used to describe some combination of features structures or characteristics. Though it should be noted that this is merely an illustrative example and claimed subject matter is not limited to this example.

While certain example techniques have been described or shown herein using various methods or systems it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made or equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept s described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to particular examples disclosed but that claimed subject matter may also include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims or equivalents thereof.

