---

title: Social network system with tracked unread messages
abstract: A social network system that tracks unread messages across a social network for a social network user receives a request from the user to display unread messages across the social network and generates and displays a list of one or more conversations, where the user is a member of the displayed conversations. The system then, for each conversation, determines and displays the number of unread messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479473&OS=09479473&RS=09479473
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09479473
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130430
---
One embodiment is directed generally to a networked computer system and in particular to a social network system that tracks unread messages.

A social network service or system or social network is an online service platform or site that focuses on facilitating the building of social networks or social relations among people who for example share interests activities backgrounds or real life connections. A social network service typically includes a representation of each user typically referred to as a user profile his her social links and a variety of additional services. Most social network services are web based and provide means for users to interact over the Internet such as e mail and instant messaging. Social networking sites allow users to share ideas activities events and interests within their individual networks.

The use of social network services in an enterprise business context is increasingly popular. Because social networks connect people at low cost they can be beneficial for entrepreneurs and small businesses looking to expand their contact bases. These networks often act as a customer relationship management tool for companies selling products and services. Companies can also use social networks for targeted advertising in the form of banners and text ads. Since businesses operate globally social networks can make it easier to keep in touch with contacts around the world.

One embodiment is a social network system that tracks unread messages across a social network for a social network user. The system receives a request from the user to display unread messages across the social network and generates and displays a list of one or more conversations where the user is a member of the displayed conversations. The system then for each conversation determines and displays the number of unread messages.

One embodiment is a social network system that creates social objects that correspond to business objects from enterprise business applications. The system further generates conversations formed of messages and other types of posts. Conversations can be related to a social object a user s wall or unrelated. For a particular user the system determines and displays the number of read unread messages for each conversation that the user is a member of across the entire social network.

Social network server system in conjunction with the other devices of substantially provides the functionality of a social network as disclosed in more detail below. Social network server is coupled to an enterprise application server . Enterprise application server in one embodiment is a server or servers that execute enterprise applications such as human resource HR applications customer relationship management CRM applications enterprise resource planning ERP applications etc. In one embodiment the enterprise applications on server are the E Business Suite or Fusion applications from Oracle Corp. Server can be directly coupled to server or can be coupled in any other way such as over a network. In addition the functionality of server can be included on server . Further server can be coupled to clients directly through a network or other means rather than through server . Server is generally not part of social network but provides the business objects and system of records that are used to generate social objects.

Computer readable media may be any available media that can be accessed by processor and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media and communication media. Communication media may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

Processor is further coupled via bus to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD . A keyboard and a cursor control device such as a computer mouse are further coupled to bus to enable a user to interface with system .

In one embodiment memory stores software modules that provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules include an operating system that provides operating system functionality for system . The modules further include a social network module for creating a social object relating a conversation to a social object and providing tracking and sorting of unread messages across the social network as disclosed in more detail below. System can be part of a larger system such as an ERP system if that functionality is not already provided by server of . Therefore system can include one or more additional functional modules to include the additional functionality. A database is coupled to bus to provide centralized storage for modules and and store data such as user profiles social objects conversations etc. Storage of these items can also be done remote from system .

In one embodiment social network of is a secure enterprise collaboration and social network software application and platform designed to facilitate social interactions within the enterprise environment as opposed to a consumer environment connecting people applications and business processes within and across businesses. Social network includes user profiles conversations and social objects .

A conversation in social network in one embodiment is a persistent shared stream of posts and comments i.e. messages including for example text rich text documents audio video programmatic content referred to as gadgets etc. A conversation has a defined membership ranging from Private i.e. membership of one self through N members consisting of individuals and or groups of individuals or sub groups to Public with visibility open across all members of social network . Posts within a conversation are viewed with new posts beneath old posts i.e. multiple posts can be read as text on a page in a book or vice versa or in any type of hierarchical format.

One embodiment generates social objects. All data from enterprise applications and business processes can potentially be socialized as a social object. Social objects contain records from a business application or process referred to as a system of record that are mapped as a visual and programmatic integration into social network via social network server . For example a sales opportunity from within a CRM enterprise application e.g. the name of a sales prospect and related data for the sales prospect such as the estimated probability that a sale will close the expected revenue of the sale etc. is integrated into social network as a social object. As a result social objects are explicitly coupled with conversations where the social object can be discussed in context and a record of that discussion can be retained for future viewing.

A social object may be generated for social network for any business object of an application that users may desire to collaborate on over social network . Examples of social objects include 1 an Opportunity social object from a CRM application 2 a Customer social object from a CRM application 3 a Service Request social object from a CRM application 4 a Business Process Shipment Escalation social object from a business process application 5 a Portal subject social object from a web portal application 6 a General Ledger Period Close social object from a financial ERP application 7 an Inventory Item social object from an inventory ERP application and 8 an Ordered Product social object from a distributed order orchestration application e.g. Fusion Distributed Order Orchestration DOO application from Oracle Corp. .

In one embodiment a conversation for social network can be created for any collaborative purpose including having a specific discussion making a decision or resolving a problem. A conversation can be related to a social object. The conversation can have membership which is identical a superset or a subset of the social object membership. For example a conversation can be created that is related to a sales opportunity social object in which the sales team works on preparing the presentation for the customer. A second related conversation can be created in which only the sales lead works with the legal team in reviewing contractual changes requested by the customer. Through related conversations multiple parallel threads of work between different constituent parties all related to the changing of state of an object within the system of record e.g. the opportunity changes from a state of Negotiation to a state of Won is achieved while maintaining the relationship understanding and contextual persistent of the collaboration that drove the changes. For example related conversations for an Opportunity social object may include a conversation for preparing a presentation with the suggested presentation content and best practice notes for delivery and a conversation for finalizing the contract with the appropriate draft contract for the deal size industry product and sales region with the associated legal team member added. A social object can also be related to another social object.

Social object further includes a wall that shows a history of all of the changes that have occurred on the social object. For example at the win probability is shown to have been updated by Julian Henderson from 50 to 60 on May 14 2012 at 11 44 a.m. At a new member Charles Dreyfus was given access to the social object on May 14 2012 at 11 43 a.m.

Social object further includes a list of all members of the social object at . The members who are currently online for that social object e.g. member are shown with a typical thumbnail picture but members who are currently offline e.g. member are shown as a grayed out thumbnail picture.

Social object further includes a list of all conversations related to social object at . A user can view one of the conversations by selecting the conversation. In one embodiment social object and new related conversations such as related conversations are created when the user is interacting with the external or third party enterprise system such as a CRM or ERP system executing on for example server of . For a given business object within a system of record of an enterprise application a social object and a customized set of related conversations with content can be created programmatically e.g. as a pre defined template to assist with the collaboration required to change the state of the system of record. In one embodiment an application programming interface API from the enterprise application to the social network application allows changes in the system of record to be communicated to the social network system and vice versa. A selectable list of other social objects that are related to social object can also be displayed.

In the example of tab is selected to generate a conversation. However because the object is not yet shared a message indicates that the object is not yet shared and a Share button is provided to share the object. Sharing the object causes a social object to be generated that corresponds to business object . An API to social network server and social network is used to generate the social object.

At social network module receives from an application a business object and associated system of record. In one embodiment the application is an enterprise application such as a CRM or ERP application. An example of a system of record for a business object is shown in section of . An API to social network server and social network of is used to receive the business object.

At social network module generates a social object that corresponds to the business object and that comprises the system of record. An example of a social object is social object of in which the system of record is shown in section .

At social network module assigns one or more members to the social object. An example of assigned members are members of social object of .

At social network module associates a wall to the social object. The wall displays changes to the system of record. An example of a wall is wall of social object of .

At the social object is displayed assuming it has been created with the system of record. For example as shown in social object is displayed within the system of record for data storage replacement opportunity.

At it is determined if there are any existing conversations for the social object. If no at a conversation is created at . The new conversation at is automatically related to the social object.

If conversations exist the conversation is selected at and the conversation is then related to the social object at .

The functionality of can be performed within an enterprise application as shown in or within social network . An API to social network server and social network is used to provide the integration of .

As disclosed social network allows a social object to be generated and one or more conversations can be related to the social object. The social object is a set of properties tied to a wall. These properties are directly connected to the object in the system of record and are updated either when they are changed in the system of record directly or through actions in social network . Changes made within social network are pushed back to the system of record to keep the object s properties current at all times. All changes can be logged on the wall and related conversations can easily be created to discuss specific issues concerning the social object. The social object can be exposed through any type of applications including the web client Outlook from Microsoft Corp. or other email applications standalone embeddable clients and all mobile clients.

Social network includes a set of predefined integration mechanisms that enable the user to define how and what data is retrieved from the system of record how to display that data in social network for example through social objects and who within social network has access to the data.

These predefined mechanisms are built to handle the most common application chores such as specifying membership lists in social network and property sensitivity i.e. not everyone should be able to see or update all properties without authorization and updating properties in both directions. For example when a social object property is updated in the system of record that change is published in social network based on the user permission rules that the user has defined.

Social objects are defined in social network as records within a system of record such as customer or service records from a CRM system. Social object records include metadata and a wall which includes membership lists and related conversations. Social objects expose system of record information to users who interact with and collaborate around the data through a user interface of social network .

The social objects provide a uniform and collaborative view of information from all integrated system of record. The social objects provide a wide range of services and capabilities in one embodiment including 

As an example of the functionality of a social object after a CRM Opportunity social object retrieves a stream of data input from the social object s wall the process may unfold as follows 

Communication also works in the other direction. When the Opportunity is updated from within social network the change is reflected in the system of record as well. Before the change is made social network checks to ensure that the user has the right to update the object from changing a simple property to changing the state of the object for example from Pending to Won . There is no need to go back into CRM to update key fields as social network automatically provides the updates.

As discussed social network includes multiple areas that accept user input collectively referred to as conversations . These areas include an unrelated conversation a conversation related to a social object or a conversation related to a personal profile of a user. Each conversation has one or more members. The user input can be in the form of posts or comments collectively referred to as user messages . Examples of messages include text or rich text posts comments or attached documents audio files or video files. In one embodiment each message belongs to a single conversation. A message can also be generated by social object updates generated by a system of record. In one embodiment for each user and each conversation that the user is a member of social network determines the unread read status of each message aggregated over the entire social network.

By utilizing the read unread status a user can visualize sort and order activity that has occurred by whether they have seen read it before. For example a user can find the conversation with the highest number of messages posts that they as an individual have not read. Further the user within the conversation stream can easily distinguish the posts that they have not read from the posts that they have read. Once the posts have been read the user can either mark all posts as read or just mark individual posts as read.

As discussed social network via social network server of keeps track of which messages have been read by each user. A message can be marked read explicitly by the user or the software can automatically mark it read e.g. if it has been displayed on the screen for a certain amount of time . Maintaining this state information allows social network server to efficiently provide each user with a customized list of social objects and conversations that helps users find new or updated information. In particular the list of the user s social objects and conversations i.e. the social objects and conversations the user is a member of can be ordered by the number of unread messages. Therefore the user does not waste time reviewing information that has already been seen and the user is directed to information such as social object status changes that is effectively new to the user.

In one embodiment in order to track unread messages each conversation maintains a count of the number of messages in that conversation. Each message in a conversation is assigned an ordinal number 1 2 3 etc. in increasing order. For each Member Conversation tuple a list is maintained of the message ordinals that have been marked read by that member. This is represented by an ordered list of ranges which offer the possibility for optimization by condensing the list. For example if a conversation has six messages with ordinals 1 through 6 and the member has read messages 1 2 4 5 and 6 but not 3 the list of unread messages in a conversation for a given user can be represented as two lists the range 1 2 and the range 4 6 . If the member subsequently reads message 3 the ranges 1 2 3 4 6 can be condensed into a single range 1 6 .

Embodiments further maintain a count of the messages posts in each conversation that have been read by each member in a database table allowing queries and sorts to be performed in a database such as database of . In one embodiment the database table can be expressed as follows 

At a request from a user of social network to display all conversations that contain unread messages is received. In one embodiment the request is in the form of a selection of the overview unread selectors as shown in .

At a list of all conversations that the user is a member of is generated. The conversations may include an unrelated conversation i.e. not related to a social object or personal profile a conversation related to a social object or a conversation related to a personal profile of the user. Each conversation has one or more members and one of the members is the user.

At for each conversation the number of unread messages for the user i.e. messages that the user has not read is determined. If a message has not been read by the particular user it will be counted as an unread message for the particular user whether or not it has been read by other members. Examples of messages include text or rich text posts comments or attached documents audio files or video files. A message may be related to multiple social objects or other conversations. A message can also be generated by social object updates generated by a system of record.

At the conversations are sorted in descending order by the number of unread messages and the list of conversations with the corresponding number of unread messages is displayed. Other sorting criteria options can also be used.

As disclosed for a user of the social network that is a member of one or more conversations embodiments display for each conversation the number of unread messages for the user and can sort the conversations by the number of unread read messages. Therefore the user can fairly easily determine which messages to read and or which conversation to focus on for conversations for that user across the entire social network.

Several embodiments are specifically illustrated and or described herein. However it will be appreciated that modifications and variations of the disclosed embodiments are covered by the above teachings and within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention.

