---

title: Measuring deletion of cookies included in browsers used by online system users
abstract: An online system determines a frequency with which its users delete information stored in a browser on client devices associated with each user. When a user accesses the online system, the online system determines a user identifier associated with the user and determines if one or more conditions are satisfied based on information received from a browser used to access the online system. If a condition is satisfied, the online system communicates an instruction to the browser to communicate information associated with a third party and the user identifier to the third party. Information previously stored in the browser and associated with the user identifier is compared to information associated with the user identifier received from the browser. Deletion of information stored in the browser is determined when stored information associated with the user identifier differs from received information associated with the user identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565090&OS=09565090&RS=09565090
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09565090
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131121
---
This disclosure relates generally to online systems and in particular to measuring deletion of cookies by users of an online system.

An online system allows its users to connect to and communicate with other online system users. Users may create profiles on an online system that are tied to their identities and include information about the users such as interests and demographic information. The users may be individuals or entities such as corporations or charities. Because of the increasing popularity of online systems and the increasing amount of user specific information maintained by online systems an online system provides an ideal forum for advertisers to increase awareness about products or services by presenting advertisements to online system users. For example presenting advertisements to users of an online system allows an advertiser to persuade online system users to take an action regarding the advertiser s products or services. Many online systems generate revenue by charging advertisers for each presentation of an advertisement to an online system user e.g. each impression of the advertisement or interaction with an advertisement by an online system user.

Effectiveness of advertising campaigns conducted on an online system may be improved by storing cookies on a device and or browser used to access the online system. These cookies enable advertisers to store and retrieve information describing a user associated with the device or browser. For example a cookie allows an advertiser to determine a user s preferred websites and the user s browsing activity e.g. information describing the user logging into the online system describing the user s interactions with advertisements and online content over a variable time frame. Cookies may also allow a user to store information describing the user in a cookie associated with a website for subsequent retrieval when the user accesses the website. Content providers may also use cookies to generate browsing histories for various users that may be used to by a content provider to target the user with advertisements for specific products or services.

However users may delete cookies stored by a browser to clear their browsing histories to reclaim storage space on a device and or to protect their privacy. Users may delete all cookies stored by a browser or may delete cookies associated with by particular websites. When a user deletes cookies content providers are unable to ensure that the proper content is presented to a particular user.

To improve an online system s ability to provide a rich environment for content providers and users an online system tracks the frequency with which users of the online system delete cookies maintained by a browser on a user s client device cookie churn . For example the online system analyzes data describing cookie churn based on an identifier associated with a user of the online system such as a username for accessing the online system and one or more cookies stored in a browser executing on a client device associated with the user by a third party. The online system may also track additional information when the user logs into the online system such as a browser or a device identifier e.g. an Internet Protocol address and a time associated with the user s login to the online system. For example the online system communicates a cookie to the browser on the user s client device to track times when a user logs into the online system and to track browser or device identifiers.

When a user logs into the online system via a browser the online system provides an identifier associated with the online system user to a third party system. When the third party system receives the user identifier it communicates a cookie associated with the third party system to the browser where it is stored. The user identifier and cookie associated with the third party system allow the third party system to determine data associated with the deletion of cookies by the user. For example the user identifier is a user name associated with the user by the online system and may be obfuscated before being provided to the third party system. In one embodiment the user identifier is a hashed user identifier included in a network address such as a uniform resource locator URL . The third party system may be a web analytics provider or other entity that performs data analysis. When the user logs into the online system via the browser the online system may obtain additional information associated with the login event such as a browser identifier a device identifier e.g. an Internet Protocol address and a time associated with the login. The online system may store a cookie in the browser to store this additional information.

Each time a user logs into the online system via a browser the online system determines whether one or more conditions are satisfied based on information associated with a cookie previously stored in the browser by the online system. For example the online system determines whether a specified amount of time has elapsed between the current login to the online system and a most recent previous login to the online system. As an additional example the online system determines whether the user associated with a client device identifier or a browser identifier logging into the online system is different from a user that previously logged into the online system using the same client device identifier or browser identifier. As yet another example the online system determines whether a cookie has been previously stored in the browser used to log into the online system by the online system.

If at least one condition is satisfied the online system sends a redirect request to the browser including an identifier associated with the user logging into the online system and an instruction to redirect the user identifier and a cookie previously stored in the browser by a third party system to the third party system. In one embodiment the online system redirects the user identifier along with one or more instructions to generate a cookie associated with the online system and to redirect the user identifier and a cookie stored in the browser by the third party system to the third party system if the online system has not previously stored a cookie in the browser. The online system may use a tracking mechanism e.g. a tracking pixel associated with one or more advertisements to determine whether to redirect a user identifier and a cookie stored by the browser to the third party system. If no conditions are satisfied the online system does not communicate instructions to redirect the user identifier and a cookie previously stored by the third party system to the third party system.

The third party system compiles information obtained from the user identifier received from the browser and cookie stored in the browser by the third party system. For example the third party system compiles information associated with a user identifier that includes a device identifier a browser identifier a time associated with the user logging into the online system and a value associated with the cookie stored in the browser by the third party system. A cookie stored in the browser by the online system may also be used by the third party system to compile information associated with the user identifier. For example the cookie stored in the browser by the online system includes a browser identifier or a client device identifier as well as timestamps indicating times when the user logged into the online system. If the cookie stored in the browser by the third party system is missing a value associated with a last login session or is not received by the third party system i.e. the cookie has been deleted the third party system communicates a value describing the current login to the online system or communicates a new cookie to the browser to be stored. The new value for the browser cookie or the new cookie is included in the information compiled by the third party system.

The online system may analyze the data compiled by the third party system to determine a frequency with which users of the online system delete cookies stored by the browser on a client device associated with the users. In one embodiment the online system determines the frequency with which new browser cookies are stored in a browser by the third party system based on a browser identifier associated with a user or with a device identifier associated with the user. For example if a user identifier and associated device identifier are associated with different cookies set by a third party the online system determines that a cookie associated with the third party system and associated with the combination of user identifier and device identifier was deleted. Information describing the frequency of cookie deletion by a user may be represented as an average rate or as a histogram.

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The client devices are one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. Alternatively a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone or another suitable device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the online system . For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the online system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the online system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

One or more third party systems may be coupled to the network for communicating with the online system which is further described below in conjunction with . In one embodiment a third party system is an application provider communicating information describing applications for execution by a client device or communicating data to client devices for use by an application executing on the client device. In other embodiments a third party system provides content or other information for presentation via a client device . A third party system may also communicate information to the online system such as advertisements content or information about an application provided by the third party system .

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding social networking system user. Examples of information stored in a user profile include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with information identifying the social networking system users displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log .

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing individuals to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the social networking system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity.

The content store stores objects that each represent various types of content. Examples of content represented by an object include a page post a status update a photograph a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a brand page or any other type of content. Social networking system users may create objects stored by the content store such as status updates photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking system events groups or applications. In some embodiments objects are received from third party applications or third party applications separate from the social networking system . In one embodiment objects in the content store represent single pieces of content or content items. Hence social networking system users are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media to the social networking system through various communication channels. This increases the amount of interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system .

The action logger receives communications about user actions internal to and or external to the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Examples of actions include adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user and attending an event posted by another user. In addition a number of actions may involve an object and one or more particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well and stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as actions on third party systems that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system and information describing these interactions is stored in the action log . Examples of interactions with objects include commenting on posts sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items and any other suitable interactions. Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system that are included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communicating with a user establishing a connection with an object joining an event joining a group creating an event authorizing an application using an application expressing a preference for an object liking the object and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log may record a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as with other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of a user augmenting the interests included in the user s user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on a third party system such as an external website and communicated to the social networking system . For example an e commerce website may recognize a user of a social networking system through a social plug in enabling the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as in the preceding example may communicate information about a user s actions outside of the social networking system to the social networking system for association with the user. Hence the action log may record information about actions users perform on a third party system including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

In one embodiment the edge store stores information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system .

In one embodiment an edge may include various features each representing characteristics of interactions between users interactions between users and objects or interactions between objects. For example features included in an edge describe rate of interaction between two users how recently two users have interacted with each other the rate or amount of information retrieved by one user about an object or the number and types of comments posted by a user about an object. The features may also represent information describing a particular object or user. For example a feature may represent the level of interest that a user has in a particular topic the rate at which the user logs into the social networking system or information describing demographic information about a user. Each feature may be associated with a source object or user a target object or user and a feature value. A feature may be specified as an expression based on values describing the source object or user the target object or user or interactions between the source object or user and target object or user hence an edge may be represented as one or more feature expressions.

The edge store also stores information about edges such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores or affinities may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest in an object or another user in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. A user s affinity may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest for an object interest or other user in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Computation of affinity is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 254 filed on Nov. 30 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 689 969 filed on Nov. 30 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 088 filed on Nov. 30 2012 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored as a single edge in the edge store in one embodiment. Alternatively each interaction between a user and a specific object is stored as a separate edge. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

One or more advertisement requests ad requests are stored in the ad request store . An advertisement request includes advertisement content and a bid amount. The advertisement content is text data image data audio data video data or any other data suitable for presentation to a user. In various embodiments the advertisement content also includes a network address specifying a landing page to which a user is directed when the advertisement is accessed.

The bid amount is associated with an advertisement by an advertiser and specifies an amount of compensation the advertiser provides the online system if the advertisement is presented to a user or accessed by a user. In one embodiment the bid amount is used by the online system to determine an expected value such as monetary compensation received by the online system for presenting the advertisement to a user if the advertisement receives a user interaction or based on any other suitable condition. For example the bid amount specifies a monetary amount that the online system receives from the advertiser if the advertisement is displayed and the expected value is determined based on the bid amount and a probability of a user accessing the displayed advertisement.

Additionally an advertisement request may include one or more targeting criteria specified by the advertiser. Targeting criteria included in an advertisement request specify one or more characteristics of users eligible to be presented with advertisement content in the advertisement request. For example targeting criteria are used to identify users having user profile information edges or actions satisfying at least one of the targeting criteria. Hence targeting criteria allow an advertiser to identify users having specific characteristics simplifying subsequent distribution of content to different users.

In one embodiment targeting criteria may specify actions or types of connections between a user and another user or object of the online system . The targeting criteria may also specify interactions between a user and objects performed external to the online system such as on a third party system . For example targeting criteria identifies users that have taken a particular action such as sending a message to another user using an application joining a group leaving a group joining an event generating an event description purchasing or reviewing a product or service using an online marketplace requesting information from a third party system or any other suitable action. Including actions in targeting criteria allows advertisers to further refine users eligible to be presented with content from an advertisement request. As another example targeting criteria identifies users having a connection to another user or object or having a particular type of connection to another user or object.

The cookie module retrieves information stored in a browser executing on a client device by the online system such as information associated with cookies stored in a web browser. Examples of information stored in a browser by the online system include a time stamp indicating a time when a user associated with the browser most recently accessed the online system or any other information associated with the user. For example the cookie module retrieves the date and time that the user most recently logged into the online system from a cookie stored by the online system in a browser executing on a client device .

Additionally the cookie module determines whether to send a request to a browser executing on a client device to send an identifier associated with a user and information stored in the browser by a third party system to the third party system . In one embodiment the cookie module sends the request to the browser if one or more conditions are satisfied based on information retrieved from the browser that was stored in the browser by the online system . For example the cookie module sends the request to the browser if a difference between a time associated with a current login to the online system by the user and a time associated with a most recent prior login to the online system by the user equals or exceeds a threshold value. Information identifying the most recent prior login to the online system may be retrieved by the cookie module from a timestamp in a cookie stored in the browser by the online system . As an additional example the cookie module sends the request to the browser if a user identifier associated with a received login request differs from a user identifier included in a cookie stored in the browser from which the login request was received by the online system . In some embodiments information identifying a user by the online system may be encrypted by the online system to protect the user s privacy so the cookie module decrypts information stored in a browser by the online system to obtain user identifying information from the information stored in the browser.

In some embodiments the cookie module determines whether to communicate user identifying information and information stored in a browser by a third party system to the third party system when certain content is presented via the browser by the online system . For example when an advertisement is presented to a user logging into the online system the cookie module determines whether a condition is satisfied and includes a tracking pixel or other tracking mechanism in the advertisement if the condition is satisfied. The tracking pixel includes a redirect command identifying the third party system and information identifying the user of the online system so when the advertisement is presented by the browser the browser renders the tracking pixel and executes the redirect command to communicate information to the third party system .

The cookie module also modifies information stored in a browser by the online system . In one embodiment the cookie module modifies values stored in a cookie stored in the browser by the online system . For example the cookie module overwrites a time stamp associated with a user s most recent previous login to the online system with the date and time of a current login.

The web server links the online system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party systems . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may receive and route messages between the online system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text messages short message service SMS messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information e.g. images or videos that is stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or BlackberryOS.

Based on the information retrieved from the browser the online system retrieves user identifying information from the user profile store such as a user identifier or other information from a user profile associated with the user requesting access to the online system . The online system determines if one or more conditions are satisfied based on the information retrieved from the browser and the user identifying information. In one embodiment the cookie module determines whether a difference between a time associated with the current request to access or to login to the online system and a time associated with a most recent previous request to access or to login to the online system by the is at least a threshold amount of time. For example the social networking system determines if a difference between a time associated with the received request and a timestamp identified from the information retrieved from the browser equals or exceeds the threshold amount of time. As an example if at least two weeks has elapsed between the online system receiving the request from the browser and the online system receiving a most recent previous request to access the online system the condition is determined to be satisfied. As an additional example the online system determines a condition is satisfied if the user associated with the received request differs from a user associated with a user identifier identified from the information received from the browser from which the request was received a condition is determined to be satisfied. In one embodiment the online system also updates the information stored in the browser by the online system . For example the online system updates a time stamp associated with a most recent login to or access of the online system by the user by overwriting a previously stored time stamp with the date and time associated with receipt of the request.

If one or more conditions are determined to be satisfied the online system sends user identifying information and instructions to the browser to communicate information stored in the browser by a third party system to the third party system . In one embodiment the online system communicates a redirect request to the browser that includes a network address associated with the third party system and user identifying information. For example the redirect request is included in a tracking pixel or other tracking mechanism included in an advertisement presented to a user by the online system via the browser . When the advertisement is rendered by the browser the tracking pixel communicates the information stored in the browser by a third party system to the third party system along with user identifying information. Alternatively the user identifying information and information stored in the browser by the third party system are automatically redirected to the third party system when the user logs into or otherwise accesses the online system .

The user identifying information may be a hashed value generated from a user identifier associated with the user by the online system or another value generated from the user identifier associated with the user by the online system . Hashing or otherwise obfuscating the identifying information sent to the browser allows the online system to protect the privacy of its users while allowing the online system to provide the third party system with information associated with particular users by the online system . Based on the instructions to communicate information stored in the browser by the third party system to the third party system the browser sends the information stored in the browser by the third party system to the third party system along with the user identifying information.

The third party system stores the information received from the browser and user identifying information associated with the information received from the browser . Referring to an example of information stored by the third party system is shown. In the example of the third party system compiles data received from various browsers . For example the information stored by the third party system includes a timestamp indicating when the third party system received data from a browser a user identifier associated with data received from the browser and data stored by the third party system in the browser and received from the browser e.g. a browser cookie . In one embodiment the third party system stores a browser identifier of the browser . The browser identifier of the browser identifies a client device type e.g. a mobile phone a browser type version number of the browser an operating system name and version number and or other identifying information associated with the browser . In some embodiments the third party system stores a client device identifier e.g. an Internet Protocol address for a client device associated with the browser .

If the third party system does not identify a value associated with the data stored by the third party system in the browser e.g. the user deleted a cookie stored by the third party system in the browser the third party system stores a new value associated with the third party system in the browser or stores new data in the browser . Information describing the new values or new data stored in the browser by the third party system may be included in the information stored by the third party system in place of or in addition to the user identifier . In some embodiments the user identifier included in the stored information is an encrypted version of the user identifying information retrieved by the online system . For example as shown in the example of the stored information is a table including an entry associated with each request to access the online system satisfying one or more conditions to send information from the browser to the third party system . In the example shown by each entry of the table includes a timestamp a user identifier data received from the browser e.g. a browser cookie a browser identifier and a device identifier . The identifier may be subsequently used to identify information stored by the third party system in the browser and associated with different users of the online system .

Based on the stored information and the information received from the browser the third party system identifies changes between stored information associated with user identifying information and the information received from the browser associated with the user identifying information. However in other embodiments the third party system communicates the stored information associated with user identifying information and the information received from the browser associated with the user identifying information to the online system which identifies between the stored information and the information received from the browser . For example in the first three entries are associated with the same user i.e. the user with user identifier 1111 using the browser i.e. the browser with the user agent UA . In this example the third entry indicates that the cookie associated with the user identifier 1111 and the user agent UA has been cleared or deleted because the browser cookie changed from a value of A0222 in the second entry to A0333 in the third entry. The frequency with which an online system user associated with the browser deletes information stored in the browser may be determined by changes between the information received from the browser and associated with user identifying information associated with the user and information associated with the user identifying information associated with the user previously received by the third party system and stored. For example if the third party system receives information from the browser associated with user identifying information and a client device identifier that differs from information stored by the third party system and associated with the same user identifying information and client device identifier the third party system determines that the user associated with the user identifying information has deleted information stored by the third party system in the browser executing on a client device associated with the client device identifier or the online system makes the determination based on information received from the third party system . As an additional example the third party system determines that a user has deleted information associated with the third party system from the browser when information received from the browser and associated with the user does not include a cookie that information stored by the third party system indicated was previously stored in the browser or the online system makes the determination based on information received from the third party system . Alternatively the third party system determines that a user has deleted information associated with the third party system from the browser if information received from the browser and associated with the user includes a cookie differing from a cookie identified by information stored by the third party system as associated with the user and or a client device identifier from which the information was received alternatively the third party system communicates information to the online system which makes the determination.

In some embodiments data stored by the third party system is communicated to the online system which analyzes the data stored by the third party system to determine changes in data stored by the third party system in the browser based on characteristics e.g. age gender location of users associated with user identifying information. For example the online system generates a histogram describing the frequency with which users of the online system delete their cookies based on the users geographic location. Alternatively the online system generates a report describing the frequencies with which users having different characteristics delete information stored in browsers by a third party system .

The third party system may also communicate additional information to the browser to be stored or may modify information stored in the browser by the third party system . For example the third party system stores an encrypted version of the user identifying information from the online system identifier to the browser after receiving the information from the browser . This additional information communicated to the browser may be subsequently used to identify individual users of the online system along with information stored by the third party system in the browser .

While describes an embodiment where the third party system stores information received from the browser and user identifying information as well as identifies changes in received browser information relative to stored information in other embodiments the browser sends information stored in the browser to the online system along with user identifying information. The online system stores the received information and user identifying information as described above. From previously stored stored information associated with the user identifying information and the received information from the browser the online system identifies changes in the received information and the stored information as described above.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Some embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Some embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the embodiments be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the embodiments which is set forth in the following claims.

