---

title: Method and system for a mobile application (app) that assists with aiming or aligning a satellite dish or antenna
abstract: An app running on a communication device determines a current position of an antenna, which is to be aligned with a transmitter. The app determines a direction in which the antenna should be oriented so that the antenna is aligned with the transmitter when the communication device is placed by the antenna. The app may generate, based on the determined direction, one or more cues to enable alignment of the antenna so that the current position or a newly determined current position of the antenna is aligned with the determined position of the transmitter. The cues may include audible, visual and/or vibration cues. The app may acquire information from one or more sensors, which are located within the communication device and/or integrated within the antenna. The acquired information may be utilized to determine the current position and/or a newly determined current position of the antenna.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660321&OS=09660321&RS=09660321
owner: MAXLINEAR, INC.
number: 09660321
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130412
---
Each of the above referenced applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Certain embodiments of the invention relate to assistance with installation of a satellite dish or antenna. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for a mobile application app that assists with aiming or aligning a satellite dish or antenna.

Free to air includes a plurality of Satellite channels can be accessed for free without the need for a subscription from a Satellite Service Provider. Most governments broadcast free to air as well as a lot of other service providers. There are currently approximately 70 some million free to air satellite users around the world primarily in Europe Latin America and South America and it s getting more popular in Asia as well.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for a mobile application app that assists with aiming or aligning a satellite dish or antenna substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be found in a method and system for a mobile application app that assists with aiming or aligning a satellite dish or antenna. In various embodiments of the invention an app running on a communication device determines a current position of an antenna which is to be aligned with a transmitter. The app determines a direction in which the antenna should be oriented so that the antenna is aligned with the transmitter when the communication device is placed on or near the antenna. The app may generate based on the determined direction one or more cues to enable alignment of the antenna so that the current position or a newly determined current position of the antenna is aligned with the determined position of the transmitter. The cues may include audible visual and or vibration cues. The app may acquire information from one or more sensors which are located within the communication device and or integrated within the antenna. The acquired information may be utilized to determine the current position and or a newly determined current position of the antenna. The sensors may comprise a gyroscope an accelerometer a compass and or an altimeter. The app may be operable to present on the communication device a user interface that is operable to receive input from a user of the communication device. The user input may be utilized to determine a location of said transmitter. The interface may comprise a graphical user interface that is operable to display one or more graphical tools that shows the current position the determined current position and or an ideal position for the antenna when the antenna is aligned with the transmitter. The app may be operable to determine when the antenna is aligned with the determined position of the transmitter based on one or more signal metrics received from a receiver that receives signals transmitted by the transmitter.

The satellite dish may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive and process satellite signals that may be received from a broadcast satellite in the satellite television network . For example the satellite dish may typically comprise the low noise block downconverter which may be utilized to process the received satellite signals. The satellite dish may be placed for example on a roof of the premises at a side of the premises or in a window of the premises so long as there is a clear view of the satellite.

The low noise block downconverter LNB may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to downconvert the satellite signals which are received from the satellite television network . The received satellite signals may be downconverted to generate one or more corresponding intermediate frequency IF analog signals which may be communicated to the set top box STB . In this regard the satellite dish may communicate the one or more corresponding intermediate frequency IF analog signals via one or more cables to the set top box STB which is located within the premises .

The communication device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive and process signals from the communication network and or the GNSS network . The communication device may be operable to receive and process communication signals from the communication network . Exemplary signals may comprise 2.5G 3G 4G LTE WiMax WiFi Bluetooth and ZigBee signals. The communication device may be operable to receive and process GNSS signals from a plurality of geosynchronous satellites in the GNSS network . In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the communication device may be operable to utilize the GNSS signals received from GNSS network and or the communication signals that are received from the communication network and determine how the satellite dish should be aligned in order to optimize the reception of the satellite signals from the satellite television network . The communication device may comprise an antenna alignment application app which may be operable to guide a user of the communication device through various steps to align the satellite dish . The communication device may comprise a Smartphone a laptop a netbook a tablet and so on.

The satellite television network may comprise a plurality of satellites and a ground station which may be referred to as a satellite headend. The satellites in the satellite network are operable to broadcast satellite signals which may be received by the satellite dish . The satellite may broadcast satellite signals having a frequency in the range of about 950 MHz to 2150 MHz

The communication network may comprise suitable devices and or interfaces that may enable wired and or wireless communication. In this regard the communication device may utilize one or more wired and or wireless protocols to wired and or wirelessly communicate with the communication network . The communication network may comprise for example the Internet a wide area network a medium area network a personal area network.

The GNSS network may comprise a plurality of geosynchronous satellites that are utilized to provide positions for terrestrial communication devices. For example the communication device may be operable to receive and process satellite signals from a plurality of satellites in the satellite television network . Based on the processing the communication device may be operable to determine its position. Exemplary GNSS may comprise GPS Galileo and GLONASS.

The STB may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to handle the processing of the intermediate frequency IF analog signals from the low noise block downconverter LNB . The integrated satellite and terrestrial TV set top box STB may be located in the premises . The STB may be operable to demodulate the intermediate frequency IF analog signals that are received from the low noise block downconverter LNB in order to tune to a particular satellite television channel. Content extracted from the demodulated intermediate frequency IF signals may be communicated from the STB to the television .

The television TV may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive and display satellite television content from the STB . The television may be a television or monitor.

In operation it may be desirable for a user of the communication device to align the satellite dish with a satellite in the satellite television network . The user of the communication device may place the communication device on the satellite dish and run the antenna align app. The communication device may be communicatively coupled to the LNB of the satellite dish via a connector or a cable such as a serial cable. The app running on the communication device may be operable to acquire signal metrics from the LNB. The antenna alignment app running of the communication device may be operable to provide the user of the communication device with guidance on how to orient the satellite dish during the installation. In this regard the communication device may be operable to receive GNSS signals from the GNSS network and or communication signals from communication network . Based on the information in the communication device and information received from the GNSS signals the signal metrics from the LNB and or the communication signals the app may determine the location of the premises and the satellite dish . Based on the determined location of the premises and the satellite dish the app may determine the satellite to which the satellite dish should be pointed and also the direction in which the satellite dish should be properly oriented or positioned to point at the determined satellite. The app may be operable to provide the user with cues on how the satellite dish should be moved in order to orient or align the satellite dish in the proper position.

The antenna alignment app may be utilized to orient an antenna in other systems without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example U.S. application Ser. No. 61 623 263 which was filed on Apr. 12 2012 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 857 755 which was filed on Apr. 5 2013 discloses other systems in which an app may be utilized to orient or align an antenna or antenna system without departing from the various embodiments of the invention and are each hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The terrestrial broadcast tower may comprise an broadcast antenna . The terrestrial broadcast tower may be operable to broadcast microwave signals or other signals from the antenna .

The automobile may comprise an antenna . The antenna may comprise for example an array antenna. The antenna may be operable to receive signals broadcasted from the terrestrial broadcast tower via the broadcast antenna . Sensors integrated in the antenna may be operable to dynamically configure the antenna A as the automobile moves. The antenna A may comprise one or more integrated sensors. The sensors may comprise positioning sensors such as for example a gyroscope an accelerometer and or a compass. Information from the integrated sensors may be utilized by an antenna alignment app to align the antenna when the automobile may be stationary for example at a tailgate party. The antenna alignment app may be running on device such as the communication device .

The communication device may comprise an antenna . The antenna may comprise for example an array antenna. The antenna may be operable to receive signals broadcasted from the terrestrial broadcast tower via the broadcast antenna . Sensors integrated in the antenna may be operable to dynamically configure the antenna A as the automobile moves. The antenna A may comprise one or more integrated sensors. The integrated sensors may comprise positioning sensors such as for example a gyroscope an accelerometer and or a compass. The communication device may be operable to run or execute an antenna alignment app that may be utilized to align the antennas A A and the millimeter wave antennas A N in the distributed millimeter antenna system within the premises .

The antenna at the premises may be operable to receive signals broadcasted from the terrestrial broadcast tower via the broadcast antenna . Since the antenna is not mounted to a mobile device but is stationary at installation or realignment an antenna alignment app running on a communication device may be utilized to align the antenna with the broadcast antenna . The antenna may comprise a point to point antenna. The antenna A may comprise one or more integrated sensors. The integrated sensors may comprise positioning sensors such as for example a gyroscope an accelerometer and or a compass.

The set top box and or gateway may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to demodulate and decode signals that are received the antenna . The signals may comprise IF signals which have been downconverted from RF at the antenna . The set top box and or gateway may also comprise an antenna A. The antenna A may comprise an antenna array module which may be operable to transmit and receive millimeter wave signals such as 60 GHz signals. The antenna A may comprise one or more sensors such as a gyroscope accelerometer and or a compass. The one or more sensors are operable to determine a position and or orientation of the antenna A.

The television or monitor may be operable to present demodulated and decoded content that is received from the set top box and or gateway . The television or monitor may also comprise an antenna A. The antenna A may comprise an antenna array module which may be operable to transmit and receive millimeter wave signals such as 60 GHz signals. The antenna A may comprise one or more sensors such as a gyroscope accelerometer and or a compass. The one or more sensors are operable to determine a position and or orientation of the antenna A.

The plurality of millimeter wave antennas A N in the distributed millimeter antenna system in the premises may be operable to receive and or transmit millimeter wave signals among the plurality of millimeter wave antennas A N the antenna A and or the antenna A. Each of plurality of distributed array antennas A . . . N which are located throughout the premises comprise one or more antenna array modules. Exemplary millimeter wave signals may comprise 60 GHz signals. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention each of the plurality of millimeter wave antennas A N in the distributed millimeter antenna system may comprise one or more sensors such as a gyroscope accelerometer and or a compass. The one or more sensors are operable to determine a position and or orientation of the corresponding millimeter wave antenna.

In operation a user of the communication device may be installing the antenna A at the premises . The antenna alignment application running on the communication device may be utilized to acquire information from one or more of the sensors that are integrated in the antenna A. In some embodiments of the invention the antenna alignment application may also be operable to acquire signal metric information from the antenna A. The signal metric information may correspond to the signals received by the antenna A from the broadcast antenna A. The acquired information from one or more of the sensors integrated in the antenna A and or the acquired signal metric information from the antenna A may be utilized by the antenna alignment app to align the antenna A.

A user of the communication device may be installing or configuring the antennas A A and the millimeter wave antennas A N in the distributed millimeter antenna system at the premises . The user may utilize an antenna alignment application running on the communication device to acquire information from one or more of the sensors that are integrated in the antennas A A and the millimeter wave antennas A N in the distributed millimeter antenna system. In some embodiments of the invention the antenna alignment application may also be operable to acquire signal metric information from the antennas A A and the millimeter wave antennas A N in the distributed millimeter antenna system. The signal metric information may correspond to the signals received by a particular one of the antennas A A and the millimeter wave antennas A N in the distributed millimeter antenna system. The acquired information from one or more of the sensors integrated in the antennas A A and the millimeter wave antennas A N in the distributed millimeter antenna system and or the corresponding acquired metrics may be utilized by the antenna alignment app to align the antennas A A and the millimeter wave antennas A N in the distributed millimeter antenna system.

The plurality of antenna arrays . . . may be integrated on a planar surface such as the substrate . The planar surface may also comprise a circuit board or package. In some embodiments of the invention the plurality of antenna arrays . . . may be integrated on a planar surface to enable the corresponding antenna elements to capture satellite and or terrestrial signals from one or more directions.

The connector may be operable to couple the antenna array module to other antenna array module a communication device such as the communication device . In various exemplary embodiments of the invention the connector may comprise a BNC coaxial connector and or a serial connector. For example the connector may comprise a thin coaxial connector and or a serial connector.

The sensors . . . may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to determine a position and or orientation of the antenna array module . The sensors . . . may comprise a gyroscope an accelerometer a compass and or an altimeter. Position information from one or more of the sensors . . . may be acquired by and utilized by an antenna alignment app which may be running on a communication device to determine the current position and or a newly determined current position of the antenna array module during alignment of the antenna array module .

In some embodiments of the invention two or more of the antenna array modules may be coupled together via the connector . For example the respective connectors on a plurality of the antenna array module may be utilized to daisy chain or otherwise connect the plurality of the antenna array modules .

In an embodiment of the invention one or more antenna array modules such as the antenna array module may be temporarily placed for example on the top of a car or other vehicle at for example a tail gating party and utilized to capture satellite television signals and or terrestrial signals. In another embodiment of the invention one or more antenna array modules such as the antenna array module may integrated as an antenna unit which may be placed on or integrated with the roof of a vehicle and utilized to capture satellite and or terrestrial signals. In another embodiment of the invention one or more antenna array modules such as the antenna array module may integrated as an antenna unit which may be part of a device such as a dish or consumer device.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the antenna elements in the antenna array module may be automatically and or dynamically configured to optimize reception of satellite signals and or terrestrial signals. For example during initial setup of the television the antenna array module may be configured to optimize reception of the satellite channels and or terrestrial signals. The antenna elements in the antenna array module may also be dynamically configured to optimize reception of the satellite signals and or terrestrial signals.

In operation a user of the communication device may be installing the antenna A at the premises . The antenna A may comprise one or more antenna arrays modules such as the antenna array module . The antenna alignment application running on the communication device may be utilized to acquire information from one or more of the sensors . . . which are integrated in the antenna array module in the antenna A. In some embodiments of the invention the antenna alignment application may also be operable to acquire signal metric information from the antenna array module in the antenna A. The signal metric information may correspond to the signals received by the antenna A from the broadcast antenna A. The acquired information from one or more of the sensors integrated in the antenna array module in the antenna A and or the acquired signal metric information from the antenna array module integrated in the antenna A may be utilized by the antenna alignment app to align the antenna A.

The reflector may be a parabolic reflector that captures and concentrates the satellite signals that are received from the satellite television network . The boom supports the low noise block downconverter to the reflector of the satellite dish assembly .

The low noise block downconverter may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to downconvert the satellite signals which are received from the satellite television network via the reflector . The received satellite signals may be downconverted to generate one or more corresponding intermediate frequency IF analog signals which may be communicated from the low noise block downconverter to the set top box . In this regard the low noise block downconverter may be operable to communicate the one or more corresponding intermediate frequency IF analog signals from the satellite dish assembly to the set top box via one or more cables which is located within the premises . The low noise block downconverter may be substantially similar to the low noise block downconverter which is shown in and described with respect to .

The platform may comprise a planar surface that may be operable to support the communication device when it is being utilized to align the satellite dish assembly .

The optional connector may comprise a suitable connector or interface that may enable coupling of the communication device to the low noise block downconverter . In this regard the connector may be utilized to power and or charge the communication device when the communication device is communicatively coupled to the connector . The connector may also be operable to communicate various receive satellite signal metrics and or receive satellite signal data to the communication device . Exemplary connector interfaces may comprise universal serial bus and variants thereof. The combination of the connector on the platform may be referred to as a dock. This may enabled to communication device to be docked to the satellite dish assembly . Instead of a connector a cable may be utilized. The cable or connector may allow signal metrics to be communicated from the LNB to the communication device . The signal metrics may be utilized by an antenna alignment app to align the antenna.

The communication device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive and process signals from the communication network and or the GNSS network . The communication device may be substantially similar to the communication device . The communication device may also comprise an antenna alignment app that may be operable to communicate with the low noise block downconverter and receive satellite signal metrics and or satellite signal data. The antenna alignment app may be operable to utilize the received satellite signal metrics and or satellite signal data to determine a proper alignment of the satellite dish assembly . For example the antenna alignment app may be operable to analyze the received satellite signal metrics and or satellite signal data to determine when the satellite dish is properly aligned with a particular satellite or in the satellite television network . The communication device may be placed on the platform and while the communication device is communicatively coupled to the connector the antenna alignment app running on the communication device may determine the current alignment of the satellite dish assembly and based on this current alignment and results of the analysis the communication device may provide alignment cues to a user of the communication device .

In instances when there may be no connector the antenna alignment app may utilize GNNS signals from the GNSS network communication data from the communication network data from one or more sensors in the communication device and or data stored on the communication device to determine a proper alignment of the satellite dish assembly .

In operation in accordance with an embodiment of the invention the antenna alignment app may acquire receive satellite signal metrics and or satellite signal data and or data from the low noise block downconverter . The antenna alignment app may analyze received satellite signal metrics and or satellite signal data data from one or more sensors within the communication device data received from the GNSS network data received from the communication network and or data stored on the communication device to calculate the proper alignment of the satellite dish assembly . Based on results of the analysis the antenna alignment app may compare the current position of the satellite dish assembly with a calculated ideal position when the satellite dish assembly is aligned and reception of the satellite signals are maximized. The antenna alignment app may determine the current position of the satellite dish assembly based on information received from one or more position sensors within the communication device . Based on the difference between the currently determined position of the satellite dish assembly and the calculated ideal position when the satellite dish assembly is aligned and the received satellite signals are at a maximum the antenna alignment app may generate and present cues to the user of the communication device . The cues may inform the user of the communication device the direction in which the satellite dish assembly should be oriented to achieve the calculated ideal position. The data that is received from the communication network by the antenna alignment app may be received from for example one or more servers within the communication network .

In operation in accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the invention in instances when there is no connector for receiving satellite signal metrics and or satellite signal data from the low noise block downconverter the antenna alignment app may operate in a similar manner without utilizing the satellite signal metrics and or satellite signal data. In this regard the antenna alignment app may be operable to analyze data from one or more sensors within the communication device data received from the GNSS network data received from the communication network and or data stored on the communication device to calculate the proper alignment of the satellite dish assembly . Based on results of the analysis the antenna alignment app may compare the current position of the satellite dish assembly with a calculated ideal position when the satellite dish assembly is aligned with a particular satellite in the satellite television network . The antenna alignment app may determine the current position of the satellite dish assembly based on information received from one or more position sensors within the communication device . Based on the difference between the currently determined position of the satellite dish assembly and the calculated ideal position when the satellite dish assembly is aligned with the particular satellite the antenna alignment app may generate and present cues to the user of the communication device . The cues may inform the user of the communication device the direction in which the satellite dish assembly should be oriented or moved in order to achieve the calculated ideal position.

The antenna may comprise a plurality of sensors . . . . The sensors . . . may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to determine a position and or orientation of the antenna . The sensors . . . may comprise a gyroscope an accelerometer a compass and or an altimeter. Position information from one or more of the sensors . . . may be acquired by and utilized by an antenna alignment app which may be running on a communication device to determine the current position and or a newly determined current position of the antenna during alignment of the antenna .

The processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to control operation of the communication device . In this regard the processor may be operable to control operation of the memory the communication subsystem the input output I O subsystem the location module the application platform and the display . The processor may also be operable to execute code for the antenna alignment app that may be running on the communication device .

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store operating and temporary data for the communication device . For example the memory may be enabled to store configurations and operating data for the communication device . The memory may be operable to store OS platform information and data as well as data utilized by the antenna alignment app to align a satellite dish assemble with a satellite in the satellite television network . The memory may also be operable to store satellite location information that may be acquired from the GNSS network the communication network and or one or more modules within the position sensor subsystem .

The communication subsystem may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate utilizing one or more wired and or wireless technologies. The communication subsystem may comprise one or more transceivers that may be operable to handle wireless and or wired communication. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the communication device may communicate wirelessly utilizing various wireless communication technologies for different networks ranging from wireless wide area networks WWANs wireless medium area networks WMANs wireless local area networks WLANs and personal area networks PANs . Exemplary WWAN technologies comprise 2.5G 3G 4G LTE and WiMax. Exemplary WLAN technologies comprise 802.11 a b g n e ac and so on. Exemplary WPAN technologies comprise Bluetooth and ZigBee signals. Exemplary wired technologies may comprise Ethernet.

The input output I O subsystem may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to control and or enable interaction with the communication device . The input output I O subsystem may comprise for example a physical keyboard physical buttons or a touch screen display which may present a software keyboard or buttons. In this regard the input output I O subsystem may be utilized to control applications such as the antenna alignment app which may run on the communication device . The input output I O subsystem may comprise a physical set of keys or buttons and or a software generated set of keys that may be utilized to control operation and interfacing with the antenna alignment app. The input output I O subsystem may also comprise a speaker that may enable audio output. The antenna alignment app may be operable to generate audio and or visual cues when the satellite dish assembly is being aligned with a satellite in the satellite television network .

The input output I O subsystem may also comprise a speaker a vibration circuit and or other devices that may be utilized to provide an alert or cue to a user of the communication device . For example the input output I O subsystem may be operable to generate an audio alert and or a vibration alert to aid the user of the communication device with alignment of the satellite dish assembly . An antenna alignment app may be utilized to control the I O subsystem to generate the audio alert and or the vibration alert.

The position sensor subsystem may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to determine an orientation position level and or direction of the communication device . The position sensor subsystem may comprise a plurality of modules which may be utilized to determine the orientation the position the level and or direction of the communication device . illustrates exemplary modules in the position sensor subsystem .

The location module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive GNSS signals from the GNSS network . In this regard the location module may comprise a GPS Galileo and or GLONASS receiver that is operable to receive the GNSS signals from the GNSS network . The received GNSS signals may be utilized to determine a geographic location of the communication device . The geographic location of the communication device may be utilized by the antenna alignment app to for example determine the satellite in the satellite television network to which the satellite dish assembly should be aligned. The geographic location of the communication device may be utilized by the antenna alignment app to for example calculate the ideal position when the satellite dish assembly is aligned with the particular satellite.

The application platform may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to control operation of the communication device . For example the application platform may enable a user of the communication device to interact with the communication device via a user interface that is presented on the communication device . The application platform may be operable to run or execute applications and configure settings for the communication device . The OS platform may be operable to run the antenna alignment app which may be utilized to provide alignment cues when aligning an antenna such as the satellite dish assembly .

The display may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to display one or more user interfaces that may enable a user of the communication device to interact with the communication device . The display may be a touch screen display that may function as an I O device. In this regard the display may be part of the I O subsystem . The display may comprise a software keyboard that may enable a user to provide input to the communication device . The display may comprise a user interface to facilitate input and or user output interaction. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention an antenna alignment app may be operable to display one or more user interfaces comprising one or more graphical tools that may enable a user of the communication device to align the satellite dish assembly .

The processor the memory the communication subsystem the input output I O subsystem the position sensor subsystem the location module and the display are each substantially similar to the corresponding components that are illustrated and described with respect to .

The operating system platform may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to control operation of the communication device . The operating system platform may be stored in a non volatile portion of the memory . The processor and the memory may be operable to facilitate execution of the code for the operating system platform . For example the operating system platform may enable a user to interact with the communication device and to run or execute applications and configure settings for the communication device . The OS platform may be utilized as an environment to handle execution of the antenna alignment app in the communication device .

The application programming interfaces may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to allow applications running on the communication device to interface with the hardware platform via the operating system platform . In this regard the application programming interfaces may enable the applications running on the communication device to access the processor the memory the communication subsystem the input output I O subsystem the position sensor subsystem the location module and or the display in order to control their operation and or acquire information or data. For example the application programming interfaces may enable the antenna alignment application to acquire position or orientation information for the communication device from one or more sensors in the position sensor subsystem . Similarly the application programming interfaces may enable the antenna alignment application to acquire location information of the communication device from the location module . The location information of the communication device and the location information of the satellite dish assembly are assumed to be similar since the communication device and the satellite dish assembly are co located.

The antenna alignment application may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to assist with alignment of the satellite dish assembly to a satellite in the satellite television network . The antenna alignment application runs on the operating system platform and utilizes the application programming interfaces to interface with the operating system platform and also with the components in the hardware platform . In this regard the antenna alignment application is operable to communicate with one or more of the components in the hardware platform to acquire information which may be utilized to determine a current position or orientation of the satellite dish assembly and an identity and location of a satellite to which the satellite dish assembly should be oriented. The antenna alignment application may be operable to communicate with and or acquire information from the position sensor subsystem the memory the communication subsystem which may be utilized to determine a current position or orientation of the satellite dish assembly . The antenna alignment application may be operable to communicate with the location module in order to acquire GNSS location information which may be utilized to determine the location of the satellite dish assembly . Based on the determined location of the satellite dish assembly the antenna alignment application may be operable to determine the satellite in the satellite television network to which the satellite dish assembly should be aligned.

In some instances the location module may be present or may not be able to acquire a location of the GNSS location information of the communication device . In this regard the antenna alignment application may be operable to communicate with the communication subsystem in order to acquire location information from one or more devices in the communication network . For example the antenna alignment application may be operable to communicate with the communication subsystem in order to acquire location information from a nearby cellular base station an access point and or router in the communication network or from one or more other devices that may be in the vicinity of the communication device . For example the location information may be acquired from a device within the premises .

In operation the processor may be operable to initiate execution of the antenna alignment application based on input from a user of the communication device . In some embodiments of the invention execution of the antenna alignment application may occur when the communication device is coupled to the connector on the platform . The antenna alignment application may be operable to determine the location of the communication device based on information received from one or more of the components in the hardware platform . The antenna alignment application may utilize the determined location of the communication device to determine the satellite in the satellite television network to which the satellite dish assembly should be aligned.

In some embodiments of the invention the antenna alignment application may present a user interface that enables a user of the communication device to enter the address or location of the satellite dish assembly . The user interface may be presented on the display . Based on the address or location of the satellite dish assembly the antenna alignment application may determine the identity and or location of the satellite to which the satellite dish assembly should be aligned. This determined location may be referred to as the calculated ideal position.

In some embodiments of the invention the antenna alignment application may be operable to display a list of satellites and corresponding satellite information or data on the user interface based on GNSS information received from the location module and or information received from for example the memory and or a server in the communication network .

The antenna alignment application may be operable to acquire information from for example one or more components in the position sensor subsystem . The antenna alignment application may utilize the information acquired from the one or more components in the position sensor subsystem to determine the current position or orientation of the satellite dish assembly .

The antenna alignment application may be operable to determine the difference between the calculated ideal position and the current position or orientation of the satellite dish assembly. If there is no difference between the calculated ideal position and the current position or orientation of the satellite dish assembly then the satellite dish is aligned with the satellite. If there is a difference between the calculated ideal position and the current position or orientation of the satellite dish assembly then the satellite dish is not aligned with the satellite. In this regard the antenna alignment application may be operable to determine the position or orientation in which the satellite dish antenna should be placed in order to be aligned with the satellite. The antenna alignment application may be operable to present on the user interface alignment cues which may enable the user of the communication device to align the satellite dish assembly with the satellite. In various embodiments of the invention the user interface may display one or more graphical alignment tools that are operable to visually assist the user of the communication device with the alignment. In some embodiments of the invention the antenna alignment application may be operable to present audio and or vibration cues which may assist the user of the communication device with the alignment. The audio cues may comprise spoken prompts beeps tones or other audio tools that may assist the user of the communication device with the alignment. In instances when the antenna alignment application determine the satellite dish assembly is aligned with the satellite the antenna alignment application may be operable to cause an visual audio and or vibration alert to notify the user of the alignment.

In instances when the communication device may be coupled to the low noise block downconverter via the connector the antenna alignment application may be operable to acquire various receive satellite signal metrics and or receive satellite signal data from the low noise block downconverter . The antenna alignment application may be operable to present some of the receive satellite signal metrics and or receive satellite signal data on the display via the user interface. The antenna alignment application may be operable to utilize the receive satellite signal metrics and or receive satellite signal data to determine when the satellite dish assembly is aligned with the satellite. For example the antenna alignment application may utilize the receive signal strength indicator RSSI signal to noise ratio SNR and or other signal metrics to determine when the satellite dish assembly is aligned.

The compass may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to determine direction. The data from the compass may be utilized by the antenna alignment app to determine the current position and or orientation of the satellite dish assembly

The accelerometer may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to determine motion and direction of the communication device . The data from the accelerometer may be utilized by the antenna alignment app to determine the current position and or orientation of the satellite dish assembly .

The gyroscope may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to determine and measure orientation of the communication device . The data from the gyroscope may be utilized by the antenna alignment app to determine the current position and or orientation of the satellite dish assembly .

The altimeter may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to determine altitude or height of the communication device . The data from the altimeter may be utilized by the antenna alignment app to determine the current position and or orientation of the satellite dish assembly .

In operation modules in the position sensor subsystem may be operable to determine orientation position level and or direction of the communication device . In this regard the antenna alignment app may be operable to acquire position or orientation information related to position altitude and or direction of the communication device from the compass the accelerometer the gyroscope and or the altimeter . The antenna alignment app may be operable to utilize the position or orientation information for the communication device to determine a current alignment of the satellite dish assembly . The antenna alignment app may provide alignment cues to a user of the communication device when aligning the satellite dish assembly based on the current alignment of the satellite dish assembly and other information determined by the antenna alignment app .

The communication device may be operable to run an antenna alignment application that may be operable to assist a user of the communication device with alignment of the satellite dish assembly . The antenna alignment application may be operable to present an installation application graphical user interface on the display .

The installation application graphical user interface may comprise a satellite information pane which may be used to display information associated with one or more satellites in the satellite television network . The information associated with the one or more satellites may be acquired from one or more of the components in the hardware platform and or from the communication network for example a server or other device in the communication network . The satellite information pane may comprise a listing of satellites section which may comprise a plurality of satellite identifier fields which lists N different identifiers corresponding to N identified satellites where N is an integer. Each satellite identifier field may also allow the user to select the corresponding satellite to which the satellite dish assembly should be aimed or aligned. Each satellite identifier field which may be presented in the installation application graphical user interface may comprise clickable sub field which may be checked for selecting and un checked for deselecting a corresponding satellite. A user of the communication device may click a button on the satellite information pane to select de select the corresponding satellite.

The satellite information pane may also comprise a satellite details section . The satellite details section may comprise detailed information for a particular satellite which may correspond to one of the satellite identifier fields . For example the satellite details section may comprise satellite identification information such as satellite name satellite operator and or coordinate information such as orbit and or position in space. The satellite details section may also comprise content related information such as broadcast sources and or channels included in the signals restrictions such as whether content is paid or free and so on. The satellite details section may be displayed for each satellite when the user accesses the corresponding satellite identifier field or taps the display above the satellite identifier field. In some instances each satellite identifier field may incorporate a sub field not shown for expressly requesting detailed information for a corresponding satellite with the displaying of the satellite details section being displayed as result of selection of that sub field.

The installation application graphical user interface GUI may present the satellite alignment pane on the display . The satellite alignment pane may comprise a visual cue to assist a user of the communication device with alignment of the satellite dish assembly with a desired or selected satellite. The satellite alignment pane may present a visual cue comprising a level with a bubble to guide a user of the communication device when aligning the satellite dish assembly with a desired or selected satellite. In instances when the bubble is located in the middle of the cross of the level the satellite dish assembly is aligned with the satellite. In instances when the bubble is not located in the middle or intersection of the cross of the level the satellite dish assembly is not aligned with the satellite.

Although a level with a circular bubble is illustrated the invention in not limited in this regard. Accordingly other mechanisms such as a plurality of LEDs or a plurality of bars may be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The installation application graphical user interface GUI may comprise a satellite alignment pane which may comprise a visual and or graphical interface for assisting a user of the communication device with alignment of an antenna such as the satellite dish assembly to a satellite in the satellite network . The satellite alignment pane may be operable to display a current alignment indicator which may indicate the current alignment of the satellite dish assembly relative to a desired alignment position which may also be referred to as a calculated ideal position. The calculated ideal alignment may be represented in the satellite alignment pane using alignment axes which may comprise two axes e.g. x and y such that the intersect point origin may correspond to the calculated ideal position. The satellite alignment pane may be operable to provide to the user of the communication device with a dynamic or real time graphical indication of where the current alignment may be relative to the desired or calculated ideal position.

When the satellite dish assembly is initially installed its initial alignment may correspond to the position defined by the alignment axes within the satellite alignment pane . The user of the communication device may move the satellite dish until the current alignment indicator overlays the intersect point .

It should be recognized that the invention is not limited to sensors being located within the communication device . Accordingly in various embodiments of the invention one or more positions and or orientation sensors may be integrated within an antenna or antenna system. For example one or more of the components in the position sensor subsystem may be integrated in the antenna or antenna system. Accordingly the sensors may be operable to communicate position and or orientation information to the antenna alignment app in the communication device . The antenna alignment app may be operable to provide a user of the communication device with cues for aligning the antenna or antenna system based on information received at least from one or more sensors integrated in the antenna or antenna system. In this regard the antenna alignment app may be utilized to align for example terrestrial broadcast and microwave millimeter wave point to point antennas. The antenna alignment app may also be utilized to align array antennas such as phased array antennas.

In various embodiments of the invention an app such as the antenna alignment app running on a communication device may be operable to determine a current position of an antenna such as the satellite dish assembly which is to be aligned with a transmitter such as a satellite . The antenna alignment app determines a direction in which the antenna should be oriented so that the antenna is aligned with the transmitter when the communication device is placed by the antenna. The antenna alignment app may generate based on the determined direction one or more cues to enable alignment of the antenna so that the current position or a newly determined current position of the antenna is aligned with the determined position of the transmitter. The cues may include audible visual and or vibration cues. The antenna alignment app may acquire information from one or more sensors which are located within the communication device and or integrated within the antenna. The acquired information may be utilized to determine the current position and or a newly determined current position of the antenna. The sensors may include a gyroscope an accelerometer a compass and or an altimeter . The antenna alignment app may be operable to present on the communication device a user interface that is operable to receive input from a user of the communication device . The user input may be utilized to determine a location of said transmitter. The interface may comprise a graphical user interface that is operable to display one or more graphical tools that shows the current position the determined current position and or an ideal position for the antenna when the antenna is aligned with the transmitter. The antenna alignment app may be operable to determine when the antenna is aligned with the determined position of the transmitter based on one or more signal metrics received from a receiver that receives signals transmitted by the transmitter.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the term exemplary means serving as a non limiting example instance or illustration. As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

Other embodiments of the invention may provide a computer readable device and or a non transitory computer readable medium and or a machine readable device and or a non transitory machine readable medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for mobile application app that assists with aiming or aligning a satellite dish or antenna.

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

