---

title: Transmitting mobile device data
abstract: Methods and apparatus, including computer systems and program products, for transmitting mobile device data are described. A method includes querying a first mobile device for data residing on the first mobile device; wirelessly transmitting, to a computer system, a specification of the data residing on the first mobile device; determining suitability of data for a second mobile device; and receiving, at the second mobile device, a specification of data for the second mobile device that is based on the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device. Another method includes wirelessly receiving, at a computer system, a specification of data residing on the first mobile device; and wirelessly transmitting, to the second mobile device, a specification of data for the second mobile device that is based on the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654897&OS=09654897&RS=09654897
owner: SITO Mobile R&D IP, LLC
number: 09654897
owner_city: Encinitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130208
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of the priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 861 759 filed on Aug. 23 2010 entitled Transmitting Mobile Device Data which is a continuation of and claims the benefit of the priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 086 894 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 783 729 filed on Mar. 21 2005 entitled Transmitting Mobile Device Data which claims the benefit of the priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 554 864 filed on Mar. 19 2004 and the entire contents of all are incorporated herein by reference.

The following description relates to installing an application on a mobile device such as a mobile phone or hand held computer.

Mobile devices such as mobile phones are increasingly available with a wide variety of software and hardware features including personal digital assistants PDAs digital cameras and the ability to run third party computer software e.g. applications and or program data . For example many phones are capable of downloading and playing ringtones provided by a third party.

When a user of a mobile device desires to install an application or ringtone on the phone the user typically must use the interface of the mobile device which in the case of a mobile phone is typically a combination of a twelve button keypad and a small liquid crystal display LCD to navigate across multiple menus associated with one or more mobile device content providers in order to manually search for the application. Then the user typically uses the mobile device interface to download and install the application.

After a using a mobile device for a substantial period of time users often desire to replace the mobile device for any of a number of reasons. For example a user may desire a newer model mobile device or a user may wish to change service providers and a wireless service provider requires the use of a different model mobile device. In any case a user may desire to have the applications and or program data that were available on the original mobile device transferred to the replacement mobile device. However a replacement mobile device may have a different runtime environment or version of the runtime environment such that the applications that were available for the previous device are not necessarily compatible with the replacement device.

Described here are methods and apparatus including computer program products that implement techniques for installing an application on a mobile device.

In one general aspect the techniques feature a method of transmitting data to a mobile device. That method includes querying a first mobile device for data residing on the first mobile device wirelessly transmitting to a computer system a specification of the data residing on the first mobile device determining suitability of data for a second mobile device and receiving at the second mobile device a specification of data for the second mobile device that is based on the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. The method may further include selectively mapping data from the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device to the specification of the data for the second mobile device based on the suitability of data for the second device. An application residing on the first mobile device may be suitable for the second mobile if the second mobile device is compatible with the runtime environment version of the application.

Selectively mapping data may include if the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device includes an application and the application is suitable for the second mobile device including information related to the application in the specification of the data for the second mobile device. Selectively mapping data may include if an application residing on the first mobile device is not suitable for the second mobile device performing a search for a suitable application for the second mobile device to return a search result and if the search result includes a suitable application for the second mobile device including information related to the suitable application in the specification of the data for the second mobile device. The information related to the suitable application may be a reference to the suitable application. The method may further include if a suitable application is not found for the second mobile device excluding information related to the application in the specification of the data for the second mobile device. The method may further include if a suitable application is not found for the second mobile device including a placeholder for a suitable application.

The specification of the data for the second mobile device may include a reference to data that is available for downloading. The specification of the data residing on the first mobile device may include program data. The specification of the data residing on the first mobile device may include an application.

The method may further include wirelessly transmitting to the computer system an identification of the second mobile device. The identification of the second mobile device may include a telephone number. The first mobile device may have the same identification as the second mobile device. The specification of the data for the second mobile device may include the data for the second mobile device. The first mobile device and the second mobile device may be mobile phones. The specification of the data for the second mobile device may include a reference to the data and the method further may include executing on the second mobile device an application for downloading the data where the application is operative to cause the downloading of the data based on the reference.

In another aspect a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier includes instructions operative to query a first mobile device for data residing on the first mobile device wirelessly transmit to a computer system a specification of data residing on the first mobile device and receive at a second mobile device a specification of data for the second mobile device based on the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. The computer program product may further include instructions operative to selectively map data from the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device to the specification of the data for the second mobile device based on the suitability of data for the second device. The instructions operative to selectively map data may include instructions operative to if an application residing on the first mobile device is not suitable for the second mobile device perform a search for a suitable application for the second mobile device to return a search result and if the search result includes a suitable application for the second mobile device include information related to the suitable application in the specification of the data for the second mobile device.

The computer program product may further include instructions operative to if a suitable application is not found for the second mobile device including a placeholder for a suitable application. The specification of the data for the second mobile device may include a reference to data that is available for downloading. The first mobile device and the second mobile device may be mobile phones. The specification of the data for the second mobile device may include a reference to the data and the computer program product further may include instructions operative to execute on the second mobile device an application for downloading the data where the application is operative to cause the downloading of the data based on the reference.

In another aspect a system for installing an application on a mobile device includes a database that is accessible by a computer system and the computer system independent of a mobile device where the computer system operative to query a first mobile device for data residing on the first mobile device receive at the computer system a specification of data residing on the first mobile device determine suitability of the data residing on the first mobile device for a second mobile device and wirelessly transmit to the second mobile device a specification of data for the second mobile device that is based on the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. The computer system may be further able to selectively map data from the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device to the specification of the data for the second mobile device based on the suitability of data for the second device. The computer system being able to selectively map data may include the computer system being able to if an application residing on the first mobile device is not suitable for the second mobile device perform a search for a suitable application for the second mobile device to return a search result and if the search result includes a suitable application for the second mobile device include information related to the suitable application in the specification of the data for the second mobile device.

The computer system may be further able to if a suitable application is not found for the second mobile device include a placeholder for a suitable application. The specification of the data for the second mobile device may include a reference to data that is available for downloading. The first mobile device and the second mobile device may be mobile phones. The specification of the data for the second mobile device may include a reference to the data and the computer system may be further able to execute on the second mobile device an application for downloading the data where the application is operative to cause the downloading of the data based on the reference.

In another aspect a method of transmitting data from a first mobile device to a second mobile device includes wirelessly receiving at a computer system a specification of data residing on the first mobile device and wirelessly transmitting to the second mobile device a specification of data for the second mobile device that is based on the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. The first mobile device and the second mobile device may be mobile phones. The method may further include determining at a first point in time that the data is not available for downloading and notifying at a second point in time the second mobile device that the data is available for downloading in response to the data being available for downloading. The method may further include searching for data corresponding to the data residing on the first mobile device.

The method of searching for data may search any number of computer data offerings from any number of mobile content providers. The data residing on the first mobile device may include program data. The data residing on the first mobile device may include an application.

In another aspect a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier includes instructions operable to cause data processing apparatus to wirelessly receive at a computer system a specification of data residing on a first mobile device and transmit to a second mobile device a specification of data for the second mobile device based on the specification of the data residing on the first mobile device.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. The first mobile device and the second mobile device may be mobile phones.

The computer program product may further include instructions operable to search for data corresponding to the data residing on the first mobile device. The instructions operable to search for data may include instructions operable to search any number of computer data offerings from any number of mobile content providers.

In another aspect a method of inventorying a mobile device includes a computer system independent of the mobile device querying the mobile device for applications residing on the mobile device and wirelessly transmitting to a computer system a specification of one or more applications residing on the mobile device. the mobile device is a mobile phone.

Implementations may further include determining if the specification of the applications residing on the mobile device includes an application to be invoiced and if the mobile device includes the application to be invoiced generating an invoice for that application.

The systems and techniques described here may provide one or more of the following advantages. A user of a mobile device may browse for and cause software to be installed on a mobile device using a user interface other than that of the mobile device. For example the interface may be a touch screen of a computer kiosk or a web based application visible in a web browser running on a personal computer system. Such an interface may provide significant advantages e.g. less cumbersome to navigate increased screen size higher quality display different or additional features faster communications ability etc. over the twelve button keypad and small LCD screen typically associated with a mobile device. An application known as the download application running on a computer system independent of the mobile device may receive input from the user interfaces and may cause the data stores of multiple mobile device content providers to be searched for desired software. Thus a user may have a larger variety of software to choose from and mobile device content providers may use a single portal as a point of sale. The download application may be employed in conjunction with a download assistance tool that is resident on the mobile device such that software may be seamlessly installed on the mobile device without user input on the mobile device. The download application may be implemented such that software can be browsed for and installed regardless of the runtime environment with which the software is compatible. For example the download application may allow a user to browse for Palm Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW Java and Windows Mobile software and install any of that software on a mobile device yet the download application need not be specially modified for each runtime environment.

A download assistance tool may be provided for a mobile device. The download assistance tool may be employed in conjunction with a search server. The search server may receive information identifying software to be searched for and the search server may search mobile device content providers for the desired software. If the search server finds the desired software the search server may advantageously work in conjunction with the download assistance tool to seamlessly install the software on the mobile device without user input on the mobile device.

A transfer tool may be installed on a first mobile device and or a second mobile device. The transfer tool may be pre loaded on the mobile devices such that the mobile devices are sold with the transfer tool or the transfer tool may be later downloaded to the mobile devices. The transfer tool may transfer computer data residing on the first mobile device to the second mobile device. For example if a user of a mobile phone desires to upgrade to a different mobile phone the user may have the contents of the original phone mirrored to the replacement mobile phone so the user has the same or similar contents such as phonebook entries and software applications. The transfer tool may inventory the computer data residing on the first mobile device before sending computer data to the second mobile device. Because the first and second mobile devices may have different runtime environments the transfer tool may work in conjunction with a search server which may advantageously search for the same or similar computer data such that the second mobile device has the computer data mirrored from the first mobile device even though the instances of applications and or program data residing on the first mobile device are not compatible with the second mobile device. Also the search server may convert program data such as phonebook entries to a different format such that program data from the first mobile device may be compatible with applications on the second mobile device. Because the search server may store an inventory of computer data on a mobile device if the mobile device is lost the inventory on the search server can be used to mirror the contents of a lost mobile device onto a replacement mobile device.

In addition the transfer tool may be adapted for gifting software. For example if a user of a first mobile device wishes to gift a software application to a person who has a second mobile device the first mobile device may be used to select an application on the first mobile device and cause the application to be transferred to the second mobile device as a gift.

Details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages may be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Applications for the mobile phone may be written in Java code C C code in accordance with a Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW Software Development Kit SDK or some other appropriate format. The storage medium in the mobile phone may include a Java virtual machine. Alternatively or in addition the storage medium may include software for a runtime environment such as BREW client software or a Java Virtual Machine. The BREW platform which was developed by Qualcomm and is described in greater detail at www.qualcomm.com brew enables Java and BREW applications to be downloaded onto and executed on the mobile phone . The storage medium may include software for implementing Motorola s Integrated Digital Enhanced Network iDEN technology. In general a Java virtual machine may be run on top of the BREW client to support Java applications applets and other types of extensions may be run on top of the BREW client to support other types of applications.

The system includes a BREW enabled mobile device. A BREW Java or other BREW compatible application may be stored on an application download server ADS and may be downloaded from the ADS through a wireless network and to a base station in the vicinity of a mobile phone for which the application is intended. The base station in turn transmits the application over a wireless communication link to the mobile phone . When an application is downloaded from the ADS the ADS collects application download event information and sends the information to a transaction manager . The transaction manager combines the download event information with other information such as application pricing structure and developer data for the downloaded application to produce usage records. The transaction manager sends the usage records to a billing server which may perform billing services such as generating invoices. In addition the billing server may allow an application developer a carrier and or a third party associated with the ADS to run a report and find out how many users are subscribing to a particular service offering or application on a real time or near real time e.g. an up to the minute basis.

The ADS may be associated with a particular wireless service provider or an entity other than a wireless service provider. In some implementations a third party that offers the mobile services for a number of service providers may operate the ADS .

The ADS may store applications which may be developed by the operator of the ADS by one or more service providers and or by third party developers. The ADS may offer only pass through access to certain carrier and or third party applications such that the applications are stored and managed on a server associated with the carrier or third party. In some implementations most or all of the available applications may be stored and managed on the ADS . The operator of the ADS may have agreements with the carriers or other third party developers to offer the applications and to provide for payment to the carriers or other third party developers.

The services offered on the ADS may be based on agreements between the operator of the ADS and the service providers for the ADS operator to act as a sales outlet for the services. The ADS operator may act as a mobile virtual network operator MVNO in which case the ADS operator essentially becomes a reseller of cellular airtime and other mobile services. Thus the ADS operator purchases the minutes and resells them to the subscriber and the contractual relationship is between the consumer and the ADS operator.

At a user may be educated on the procedure of downloading the download assistance tool such as illustrated in . The education may involve the use of a graphical user interface instructing a user on how to proceed on their mobile device model in order to download the application. The instructions may include a combination of text and pictures directing a user to press certain buttons in a series of interactions. For example includes the text choose start by pressing select and includes a picture of a mobile phone with the select button circled. In a graphical user interface instructs a user at to select their model of mobile device. Then from through a user is prompted to navigate the mobile device through various applications already resident on their mobile device such that the user locates and downloads the download assistance tool. At through the user is instructed to initiate a mobile shop called Axcess Shop that is pre loaded on the mobile device. The mobile shop may differ depending on the mobile device model or the service provider. For example a unique mobile shop may exist for each wireless service provider. From to the user is instructed on how to use the mobile shop to download the download assistance tool. Then at the user is educated on how to ensure the download assistance tool was installed properly. In alternative implementations a user is not necessarily educated based on their mobile device model. For example mobile devices may have similar interfaces based on their operating system software such that a user may receive instructions based on the operating system software of the mobile device.

At the user locates the download assistance tool via the mobile device. The user can locate the download assistance tool based on the education provided at . The user may navigate the mobile device using a keypad wheel or other input device.

At the mobile device wirelessly receives the download assistance tool. The mobile device may receive the application via an application already resident on the mobile device for example ALLTEL s Axcess Shop which is used for manual searching and downloading of applications. Applications such as ALLTEL s Axcess Shop and Verizon s Get it Now are generally regarded as mobile shops because they allow a user of a mobile device to shop for software through their mobile phone.

At information identifying a mobile device is received via a user interface such as a computer kiosk or a web browser. For example a phone number may be entered on a computer kiosk. That information may be forwarded to a computer system that is connected to a wireless network such as for example the ADS of which can use the information to identify the mobile device that will receive software. In alternative implementations other information may be entered and may enable the mobile device to be identified.

At information is received that identifies an application to be installed on the mobile device. That information may also be received by a user interface and forwarded to another computer system. As an example a touch screen computer kiosk may have a software catalogue and a user may interact with the touch screen to select an application that the user desires to install on his or her mobile device. In response to that selection the computer kiosk may forward the selection to another computer system. The information identifying the application may include for example a title a runtime version or a name of a software publisher. In addition the computer system may receive information related to payment for the application including for example credit card information account information for an account with a wireless service provider or a confirmation that sufficient cash has been received to pay for the application.

At information related to the application is wirelessly transmitted to the mobile device. The information may be transmitted by the computer system of and or . The information related to the application may be the same information that is used to identify an application. The information that is related to the application may be a reference e.g. a pointer to the application which can be used to find download and or install the application. For example the information may be the name of a mobile device content provider and a location of the application at the mobile device content provider s mobile shop. That information can be used by a tool such as the download assistance tool discussed in reference to which in turn uses a mobile shop to download and or install the application. In the BREW environment the information related to the application can be a search string. A search string can be a string of search criteria that can be used to uniquely identify an application through a search engine. For example through available application programming interfaces APIs the download assistance tool can use a search string in conjunction with a mobile shop s search function e.g. Verizon s Get it Now search function to identify a chosen application. The download assistance tool can further use available APIs to cause the application to be downloaded and or installed. Although a particular method of downloading data through a BREW environment is discussed other methods can be used.

The information related to the application may be transmitted in response to receiving the identification of the application which was performed at . Instead of a reference to the application the mobile device may in alternative implementations receive the desired application. Also in alternative implementations the transmission to the mobile device may be in response to another stimulus. For example a download assistance tool on the mobile device may be notified by the computer system that an application is ready for downloading to the mobile device. In response to that notification the download assistance tool may cause the mobile device to query the computer system about applications that are ready for downloading. In response to that query the computer system may transmit information related to the applications ready for downloading to the mobile device.

The user interface and computer system that transmits information to the mobile device may be configured such that software can be downloaded to the mobile device regardless of the runtime environment of the software. For example a computer system may handle the downloading of BREW Java Windows Mobile and Palm applications to a mobile device without requiring special modifications for each runtime environment corresponding to the mobile device. This might be possible for example if a reference to an application e.g. a pointer or a search string is sent to the mobile device because the reference may be suitable for reading on any runtime environment and the computer system may be configured to wirelessly communicate with any runtime environment version of a download assistance tool e.g. a protocol may be established which allows the computer system to communicate regardless of the runtime environment version of a download assistance tool to cause the downloading of applications to the mobile device.

A search may be performed by the computer system to find the desired application and a result of the search may be transmitted to the mobile device. For example in response to receiving the information identifying the application such as a title of a game the computer system may search a list of software offerings such as a list of games from mobile device content providers. If the search is successful the computer system may generate information related to the application such as a reference to a mobile device content provider that offers that application and may transmit that information to the mobile device.

At the mobile device installs the application on the mobile device. Installing the application includes downloading the application and may further include registering the application as an application in the mobile device and providing a user access to the application. The application can be downloaded by a mobile shop in conjunction with a download assistance tool using the information that was transmitted at . For example the information related to the application which was transmitted at may be a reference to the location of the application such as the name of a mobile device content provider and the title of the application. A download assistance tool may cause a mobile shop to install the desired application on the mobile device based on the reference. The processes of and may be implemented such that to install the desired application on the mobile device a user need only use a single user interface. That might be advantageous because the user interface is an interface of a computer system i.e. not the interface of a mobile device which may be designed to be less cumbersome to navigate than the user interface of a mobile device.

Because the processes of can be implemented in software residing on a computer system in conjunction with a download assistance tool on the mobile device the overall architecture can be viewed as a two tiered software architecture where the software runs on the computer system receives information related to user input and finds the desired application and the download assistance tool runs on the mobile device communicates with the computer system that searches for the application and installs the application on the mobile device.

Multiple computer systems may perform the processes of . For example a computer kiosk may operate the user interface and receive the information identifying a mobile device and information identifying an application to be installed. That information may then be forwarded to a second computer system that can search software offerings from content providers and wirelessly transmit search results to mobile devices.

At information is received that identifies computer data such as an end user application a ringtone or the like. The information is received by a computer system called a search server. The search server may be for example a computer system operated by a wireless service provider and the computer system may be connected to a wireless network such as the wireless network . The information can be received via a user interface such as a computer kiosk or a web browser. The computer data may be applications such as an application for scheduling appointments or program data such as a ringtone that is run on a ringtone application. For example a user may browse a catalog of applications and ringtones at a touch screen computer kiosk and the user may select an application. The information that identifies that selection such as the title of the application would be received at the search server.

At information identifying a mobile device is received via a user interface such as a computer kiosk or a web browser. For example a phone number may be entered on a computer kiosk. That information may be forwarded to a computer system that is connected to a wireless network such as for example the ADS of which can use the information to identify the mobile device that will receive software. In alternative implementations other information may be entered and may enable the mobile device to be identified.

At mobile device content providers are searched based on the information that identified computer data at . For example if an application was entitled SchedulerApp and that title was the information received at the search server can search for all applications entitled SchedulerApp. Searching is performed using any of a number of mechanisms and or techniques. For example the search may be performed on the search server such that the search server manages the searching of mobile device content providers to generate a search result. In that technique the search server may send a query to each mobile device content provider and in response to the queries generate a search result. In alternative search techniques queries need not be sent to each mobile device content provider in response to a user selection of computer data. For example the search server may have lists of computer data offered by mobile device content providers and the search server may search through those lists to determine which content providers have the computer data that was identified at . In that scenario the search server may routinely receive or actively gather lists of the computer data offered by the mobile device content providers.

In alternative implementations the search need not be limited to an exact match of the information identifying the computer data. As an example the search server may receive a title SchedulerApp version 3 and the search server may search for applications with similar titles such as SchedulerApp version 4 which may be a newer version of the application. When searching for similar computer data the search may be limited to suitable data. Data may be considered suitable based on a variety of factors such as functionality and compatibility with the runtime environment of the mobile device. For example a newer version of the computer data may be considered suitable if the data is compatible with the mobile device.

At data corresponding to the search result is wirelessly transmitted to the mobile device. The mobile device is identified by the information received at . The search result may be for example an application a reference to a location of an application or a list of locations for finding an application. The data may be transmitted to a download assistance tool residing on the mobile device such as the download assistance tool discussed earlier. That tool can use the data to install the application on the mobile device. All of the processes of may be implemented such that a user need only at a user interface other than the interface of the mobile device specify computer data to download and the computer data is downloaded and or installed on the mobile device without user input on the mobile device. As an example a user may select an application at a computer kiosk and in response to that event the computer kiosk may forward a title of the application to the search server. Then the search server may search for the application and send a reference to the application to the mobile device which in turn downloads the application without any user interaction on the mobile device. In alternative implementations the computer system may also receive a payment method.

The search server system includes a search server and a database . The search server is a computer system that can wirelessly communicate with mobile devices via a wireless network. The database is connected to the search server and is operative to receive database commands such as queries or requests to store information from the search server . The database can store for example information identifying a mobile device such as a telephone number and a list of computer data such as applications corresponding to the mobile device. The database may further indicate whether computer data has been downloaded to the mobile device. In alternative implementations the database may be part of the search server .

The mobile device may be a mobile phone a PDA a pocket sized personal computer pocket PC or a mobile phone that integrates the functionality of other devices such as PDAs and digital cameras. The mobile device is operative to wirelessly communicate with the search server . For example the mobile device may communicate via a wireless network such as the wireless network . The wireless network may be a CDMA GSM UMTS or any other type of mobile device network. The runtime environment of the mobile device may be Java BREW or any other runtime environment.

The mobile device content provider is operative to wirelessly communicate with the mobile device . For example the mobile device content provider may communicate via a wireless network such as the wireless network . The mobile device content provider stores computer data including applications and program data. Applications are executable programs for which a set of instructions on a computer system such as the mobile device control the processor of the computer system. Program data is data that may be generated by an application and is interpretable by an application. For example a ringtone is program data because a ringtone is run by an application such as a ringtone engine in order to generate ringing sounds that correspond to the data that represents the ringtone. However a ringtone may be an application if for example the ringtone includes the software engine that generates the ringing sounds. A mobile shop such as ALLTEL s Axcess Shop can access the mobile device content provider . A single mobile shop may be resident on the mobile device or the mobile device may have several mobile shops each of which may correspond to a mobile device content provider.

The arrows in depict a series of data flow interactions between components in the system that may result in the download of computer data to the mobile device . For example the interactions of may result in the downloading of a game to a mobile phone. At information identifying computer data such as the title of an application is transmitted from a user interface to the search server . For example if a user browses a catalog of computer data at the user interface selects an application entitled GolfApp and indicates that the application should be for a BREW based phone the title GolfApp and an indication that the BREW version of the application is desired may be transferred from the user interface to the search server . Information identifying a mobile device may also be received at the search server . The information may include for example a phone number for a mobile phone an email address of an email account that is used on a mobile device or an account number of an account maintained by a wireless service provider. In the scenario that something other than a phone number such as an account number is used to identify a mobile device that information may be matched to a corresponding phone number for a mobile phone. In alternative implementations the information identifying the application need not be specific to a runtime environment. For example an application may be identified as GolfApp in a catalog of computer data on a user interface. The user may select GolfApp and the title may be enough information to identify the computer data. In alternative implementations information for a method of payment such as information identifying an account used for payment credit card information or a confirmation that a sufficient amount of cash was received may be received by the search server .

At the information received by the search server such as inventories of mobile devices may be stored in the database . The database may have records for each mobile device which may be organized by a key field that uniquely identifies each mobile device such as for example the mobile device phone number. In addition the database includes a list of the computer data corresponding to each mobile device including computer data that is desired to be installed on a mobile device and or computer data that is already installed on a mobile device. The database need not include a list of all computer data residing on a mobile device. For example the database may only store a list of end user applications.

At the search server wirelessly notifies the mobile device that data is available for download. The notification can be received by a download assistance tool on the mobile device and the download assistance tool may be woken up in response to the notification. In alternative implementations the notification may indicate the data that is available for download such that the mobile device need not query the search server .

At in response to the notification the mobile device queries the search server to determine the information that is available for downloading. At the search server searches the database for the computer data that is available for downloading. In addition the search server may search one or more mobile device content providers to search for a mobile device content provider that has the computer data. Any techniques and or mechanisms can be used to search mobile device content providers. For example the search may be performed by sending a query to mobile device content providers or a search may be made on a compilation of computer data offered by mobile device content providers that is available on the search server .

At the search server wirelessly transmits a reference to the application to the mobile device . The reference may be transmitted to a download assistance tool. In alternative implementations additional and or different information other than a reference may be received by the mobile device . For example the mobile device may receive the application.

At a mobile device content provider is contacted by the mobile device for the application. A download assistance tool residing on the mobile device may contact the mobile device content provider using the information received at . The download assistance tool may employ a mobile shop to download the computer data to the mobile device . For example a download assistance tool may receive a name of a mobile device content provider such as MobileContentMall and the title of an application such as GolfApp. In response to receiving that information the download assistance tool may employ a mobile shop to contact MobileContentMall and download GolfApp.

At the mobile device sends to the search server a confirmation that the computer data has been successfully downloaded and installed. Data may be successfully downloaded and or installed for example if all components of an application have been received and or installed. A list of computer data that has been installed may be used for example to determine if an unsuccessfully installed application should be reinstalled. The list may also be used for example to track computer that is not yet available and should be installed on the mobile device .

If multiple articles of computer data were identified at the technique of downloading computer data described in reference to can continue until all the computer data has been installed. For example if two applications were identified interactions through may be completed for the first application and then interactions through may be completed for the second application. Alternatively other techniques may be used to download multiple articles of computer data. For example each article need not be identified and downloaded one by one. In one implementation the search server may receive a list identifying multiple articles of computer data and the search server may send a list of references to those articles of computer data to the mobile device at .

The interactions among components in the system may be implemented such that a user need not interact with the mobile device . This is beneficial because a user need not fumble with the cumbersome twelve button keypad and the small LCD typically associated with a mobile device such as a mobile phone in order to search for and download an application. Also the techniques illustrated in may be performed with more or fewer interactions among the components and in varying order. For example the hand shaking between the mobile device and the search server such as and need not be performed in alternative implementations.

In response to the query the sending device transmits a specification of data residing on the sending device hereinafter the first specification to the computer system at . The specification is an inventory of computer data residing on the mobile device. For example the specification may include a list of computer data residing on the sending device such as applications phonebook entries and datebook entries. The specification may include a combination of the actual data or just a reference to the data. For example the specification may include phonebook entries and a title of an application.

At the computer system determines the suitability of the data such as applications and or program data for the receiving device. This may include determining the compatibility of application programs for the runtime environment on the receiving device and or the compatibility of program data for applications that will be mirrored to the receiving device. For example if the runtime environments of the sending and receiving device are different applications that are in the first specification might not be compatible with the receiving device. Also for example program data such as phonebook entries that are interpretable by the sending device might not be interpretable on the receiving device. If program data is not interpretable by the receiving device the computer system may convert the program data to a suitable format.

At a specification of data for the receiving device hereinafter the second specification is wirelessly transmitted to the receiving device. The second specification is an inventory of computer data that should be mirrored to the receiving device and is based on the first specification. For example the second specification may be a list of the titles of the applications that were on a sending device and a list of mobile device content providers corresponding to where the applications might be found. The second specification need not include the same computer data that was in the first specification for example if the sending and the receiving devices have two different runtime environments and if compatible versions of applications that were available for the sending device are not available for the receiving device. In that case the computer system may determine what data in the specification of the data residing on the sending device should be included in the specification of the data for the receiving device and selectively map that data. In the case that computer data is not available for the receiving device the second specification may include suitable data a placeholder or might not include any reference or data related to that computer data. Suitable data is an alternative and may be chosen based on a variety of factors such as the functionality and the compatibility of the computer data. For example if a datebook application entitled DateBook version 3 was available on the sending device a suitable substitute may be a newer version of the application such as a datebook application entitled DateBook version 4 or another application with similar functionality such as another datebook application. A placeholder takes the place of the computer data and may be temporary. A placeholder may be for example a reminder for the receiving device to routinely check for the availability of the computer data.

The second specification is wirelessly transmitted from the computer system and can be received by a download assistance tool that resides on the receiving device. In response to receiving the second specification the download assistance tool can use the specification to download computer data such as applications. For example a first specification may include a title of an application such as Scheduling Application and program data such as appointments for the scheduling application. Based on that specification the second specification may include a reference to from where the scheduling application may be downloaded and the program data for the appointments. A download assistance tool residing on the receiving device may use the reference to download the scheduling application from a mobile device content provider.

The processes of may be adapted for a gifting application. A gifting application allows a user of a sending device to send computer data to a receiving device as a gift. The application may have aspects that are resident on the mobile devices and on another computer system. For example a user of a sending device may cause a gifting application to wirelessly transmit a first specification of computer data such as a title of an application to the computer system. In order to identify a receiving device the sending device may send identifying information such as the phone number of the receiving device to the computer system. The computer system may then search for the application and wirelessly transmit to a gifting application on the receiving device a reference to a mobile device content provider. The gifting application on the receiving device may then use a mobile shop to download the application from a mobile device content provider. In order to make the transfer of the application a gift the sending device may send information related to a method of payment to the computer system.

An application on the sending phone known as a transfer tool inventories the data including applications and program data residing on the sending phone . For example the tool may generate a list of phonebook entries appointments and software that are resident on a mobile device.

At the sending phone wirelessly transmits a specification of the data residing on the sending phone to the search server . The specification of the data residing on the sending phone is an inventory of computer data and may be for example a list of applications and program data. The computer data listed in the specification of the data may be limited to that computer data which is not part of the runtime environment e.g. the operating system and program data related to the operating system might not be part of the specification of the data residing on the sending phone . In alternative implementations the specification of the data residing on the sending phone may include data that is selectively chosen by a user. For example the transfer tool may prompt a user to decide which applications should be mirrored to the receiving phone and a specification of the data residing on the sending phone may include a selection of computer data based on those user selections. In alternative implementations the transfer tool need not be initiated by user input on the sending phone. For example a computer system may initiate the transfer tool on the sending phone.

In addition to the specification of the data the sending phone wirelessly transmits information identifying the receiving phone such as the phone number of the receiving phone . The information identifying the receiving phone is used to identify the transaction i.e. that the specification of the data residing on the sending phone is to be mirrored to the receiving phone . In alternative implementations information identifying the receiving phone need not be used to identify the transaction. For example information identifying the sending phone may be used and the receiving phone may query for the information using the sending phone s number. In alternative implementations a phone number need not be used. For example the sending phone may be identified by an identifier that is randomly generated.

The receiving phone may be identified by the information that is used to identify the sending phone . For example the same phone number may be used for both the sending phone and the receiving phone . In that example the receiving phone might be associated with the phone number when the sending phone is not associated with the phone number and vice versa such that data residing on the sending phone is mirrored to the receiving phone . This may be advantageous for example if a user wishes to upgrade the sending phone and wants to use the same phone number or if a user loses the sending phone and wants a replacement phone with the same phone number.

The specification of the data is stored on the database at . The phone number of the receiving phone is used as a key field in the database of records that include the inventory of the sending phone however other techniques may be used to store the inventory.

At the receiving phone queries the search server to see if any computer data is available for download. The receiving phone can query the search server in response to a user directing a transfer tool on the receiving phone to check for computer data to be downloaded. In alternative implementations the receiving phone may query the search server in response to any type of event. For example the search server may initiate the transfer tool on the receiving phone by notifying the search server that computer data is available for download.

At the search server determines which computer data that should be mirrored to the receiving phone . Making the determination involves reviewing the specification of the data residing on the sending phone that is stored in the database . This process may further involve determining the suitability of data for the receiving phone and the availability of data for the receiving phone . Computer data is available if the data exists in the database or if the data can be found on a mobile device content provider. A mobile device content provider may be searched if for example the receiving phone has a different runtime environment than the sending phone and the search server determines that a version of an application that is listed on the specification of the data on the sending phone is not compatible with the receiving phone . In that scenario the search server searches for a version of the application that is compatible with the receiving phone . In alternative implementations the specification of the data for the receiving phone may be the same as the specification of the data residing on the sending phone. For example the sending phone and the receiving phone may have the same runtime environment thus the computer data residing on the sending phone may be presumed to be available for the receiving phone . In alternative implementations the search server may search for substitute computer data if the computer data is not available.

At the search server wirelessly transmits a specification of data for the receiving phone to the receiving phone . The specification of the data for the receiving phone is based on the determination of computer data that should be mirrored to the receiving phone . The specification may include a mix of computer data and references to computer data. For example the specification may include program data and references to a mobile device content provider where applications can be found.

At the user of the mobile device confirms that the data should be downloaded to the receiving phone . For example the user may be confronted with a list of applications and program data and the user may be asked to confirm whether he or she wants to download the computer data to the receiving phone. The receiving phone wirelessly transmits the confirmation to the search server . In alternative implementations the user may be allowed to selectively choose which applications and or program data to download to the receiving phone. For example user may be confronted with a list of applications and program data where each item in the list has a corresponding checkbox that the user may check to selectively confirm the computer data that the user wishes to download and or install on the receiving phone .

In response to the search server receiving the confirmation to download the computer data to the receiving phone the search server starts an application that causes the downloading of the computer data. The application may be the application that ran on the search server that was described in connection with . In alternative implementations the program data may be downloaded to the receiving phone separately from the applications. For example the program data may be wirelessly transmitted from the search server to the receiving phone in response to the confirmation at and the applications may be downloaded via the search tool at . In alternative implementations the program data may be downloaded as part of the specification of the data for the receiving phone and the confirmation need only be used for the downloading of applications. For example the specification of computer data for the receiving phone may be a mix of references and program data. In that scenario the download assistance tool may download and or install the program data and the mobile shop may be employed to download applications using the references.

The mobile devices and the search server may perform the processes described in reference to such that user intervention is minimized. For example the confirmation at may be performed by the receiving phone without user input. This is beneficial because a user might be relieved from having to interact with the cumbersome twelve button keypad and the small LCD typically associated with a mobile device in order to mirror applications from the sending phone to the receiving phone . Also the techniques illustrated in may be performed with more or fewer interactions and in varying order. For example the hand shaking between the receiving phone and the search server such as and need not be performed if the search server simply send the specification of the data for the receiving phone to the receiving phone . In alternative implementations the search server may convert program data to a format that is suitable for the receiving phone . For example if program data such as phonebook entries are generated by the runtime environment of the sending phone but are not compatible with the runtime environment of the receiving phone the search server may convert the phonebook entries to a different format for the receiving phone . Also in alternative implementations the download assistance tool need not be employed to mirror the contents of the sending phone onto the receiving phone .

Although the methods are shown in as being composed of a certain number of processes additional and or different processes can be used instead. Similarly the processes need not be performed in the order depicted. Thus although a few implementations have been described in detail above other modifications are possible. Other implementations may be within the scope of the following claims.

