---

title: Methods and systems for transforming multiple data streams into social scoring and intelligence on individuals and groups
abstract: A system, method and computer program product for determining and identifying a highly accurate description of an entity, including discovering hidden attributes, features, characteristics, behaviors, and opinions of an entity; and identifying the entity through processing, summarizing, abstracting, generalizing, discovering, and inferring information from a plurality of databases including publicly available data, private purchased data, private data provided by others, and derived data from public or private data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594810&OS=09594810&RS=09594810
owner: REUNIFY LLC
number: 09594810
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present invention claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 705 105 of ADIBI et al. entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR TRANSFORMING MULTIPLE DATA STREAMS INTO SOCIAL SCORING AND INTELLIGENCE ON INDIVIDUALS AND GROUPS filed on Sep. 24 2012 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for data mining and the like more particularly to systems and methods for transforming multiple data streams into social scoring and intelligence on individuals and groups and the like.

In recent years systems and method for data mining and the like have been developed and continually refined. However such systems and methods for data mining and the like have been hindered by various limitations for example including limitations related to social scoring and intelligence on individuals and groups and the like.

Therefore there is a need for methods and systems that address the above and other problems with systems and methods for data mining and the like. Accordingly the above and other needs are addressed by the illustrative embodiments of the present invention which provide a novel method and system for transforming multiple data streams into social scoring and intelligence on individuals and groups and the like.

Accordingly in an illustrative aspect there is provided a system method and computer program product for determining and identifying a highly accurate description of an entity including discovering hidden attributes features characteristics behaviors and opinions of an entity and identifying the entity through processing summarizing abstracting generalizing discovering and inferring information from a plurality of databases including publicly available data private purchased data private data provided by others and derived data from public or private data.

The system method and computer program product configured to align online and offline social graphs with consumer psychographic research data for optimizing offers and communications at a point of contact on a web sites a mobile or social application a call center and a points of sale.

The system method and computer program product configured to combine publicly available data for the entity with private data provided by a user an individual or an organization.

The system method and computer program product configured to abstract represent cluster and illustrate data points including an entity interest feature and opinion in based on soft or hard numbers and baskets of demographics and psychographics.

The system method and computer program product configured to build a profile for the entity based on combination of data standardization field approximation field matching and linking profiles.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of illustrative embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the present invention. The present invention also is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

To address the above and other problems with systems and methods for data mining and the like provided is new and useful systems and methods for determining and identifying a highly accurate description of an entity whether an individual company organization place time slot or a group e.g. social commercial other by discovering the entity s hidden attributes features characteristics behaviors and opinions through processing summarizing abstracting generalizing discovering and inferring information from a wide variety of databases such as publicly available data private purchased data private data provided by others derived data from public or private data and the like.

The databases the system may draw upon for example include social media data geo location data census data household data company data entities addresses opt in data and historical data. The system transform these data sources into intelligence on individuals or groups through the system and methods described here. By connecting the dots between qualitative market research and quantitative behavioral data the system provides a new unobstructed window into the universe of individuals or groups so one can discern individual or group desires and likes and their timing exactly. The unique group detection algorithms and methodology allows the system to provide scaling such cross channel record linkages a reality. The algorithms and systems align online and offline social graphs with traditional consumer psychographic research data uncovering unique information that allows an end user of the system to optimize offers and communications right at the point of contact on web sites mobile and social apps call centers points of sale and the like.

Referring now to the drawings and thereof there is shown an illustrative system and method for transforming multiple data streams into social scoring and intelligence on individuals and groups and the like. In the system can include data for example including social data and profiles geo location data social media SM data both domestic and international household data both domestic and international syndicated research data SRD results both domestic and international brands used data URLs of web sites visited data on life events and the like.

Information extraction system can include subsystems to extract information from structured data e.g. database embedded database or a simple tab separated file unstructured data e.g. text short messages news geo location data e.g. information about the position of a person links between people events and other features as well as subsystems for crawling mapping brands to social media data mapping URLs and web sites to users and the like.

Profile builder can be configured for standardization e.g. to standardize various formats of information such as addresses field approximation e.g. to infer and predict a field such as the name of the city from the zip code field matching e.g. to match two different source of information to each other linking profiles e.g. to infer who is connected to who or which entity is connected to which entity data enrichment e.g. to predict demographic features from current data points if its not available network building e.g. to discover who is strongly connected to who and eventually make a network of people profiling e.g. to extract discover maintain and updates entities profiles subsystems and the like.

Text mining system can include subsystems for pattern finding e.g. discover potential hidden patterns in data pattern learning e.g. to learn discovered pattern and generalization of those patterns sentiment analysis e.g. to discover the sentiment of an opinion text or a module of information life state analysis e.g. to predict and discover various sets of life such as getting pregnant being married looking for job etc. URL analysis brand Social Media Translation SMT e.g. to map discovered brands form social media sources back to the database internationalization and the like.

Data mining system can include subsystems for classification learning and optimization basket modeling similarity measurement fingerprint extraction link discovery URL labeling interpretation and the like.

Outputs of the system can include types DNA brand fingerprints text URL fingerprints ranked lists e.g. which could be based on probability likelihood score or index signatures clusters aggregates a data export subsystem for example to Excel CSV and the like formats.

Front end can include a correlation engine analytics graphic user interface GUI dashboard and the like.

Engineering and architecture systems can be configured to implement components 10 through 107 including a scaling subsystem knowledge base profiles databases e.g. RDBMS NoSQL data warehousing operation tech support client services and data analysis product design cleanroom standard and customized application programming interfaces APIs real time scoring and real time social monitoring subsystems and the like.

The data system feeds data into the information extraction system which then passes the features and extracted information to the profile builder which then passes the profiles to the text mining and the data mining systems to form the output to be fed to the frontend . The various systems can be implemented via the engineering description and subsystems .

The data system feeds a variety of types of raw data into the information extraction system the information extraction system extracts features and information from structured or unstructured data passed to it as well as geo location data and link data and performs additional data crawling if necessary. The information extraction system also maps brands web sites and URLs to social media data. It then passes the features and extracted information to the profile builder which performs data standardization field matching and field approximation for some of the features and data points. The profile builder in this way thus enriches the data and builds a network and complete data profile. It then passes the profiles to the text mining and data mining systems for discovery and learning of patterns sentiment analysis life state analysis classification optimization similarity measurement fingerprint extraction link discovery URL labeling and interpretation. The output of this flow is then ready and displayed in a GUI frontend either in raw form or further processed or correlated form. The engineering and architecture system is the implementation side of systems through and includes various features such as real time scoring real time social monitoring a knowledgebase and a database.

The system first places her within predetermined feature bins with both raw scores and binary scores . For example the system may estimate that her affinity for the brand Gucci is very high and system therefore assigns a value of 90 e.g. out of 100 to this feature together with a binary value of 1. Similarly the system may determine that her affinity for the brand Dell may be low with a score of 20 and a binary score of zero. Similar value assignments for well known features such as age and not so well known features how many days a week does she go to the gym are presented in as well.

In the system extends the example in to John for whom two sets of information are known. The system refers to one set for which the system has hard facts and data as evidence . Examples of evidence are client data such as John s age place of residence level of education e.g. household data social media data such as his likes and dislikes which he has volunteered on social media such as Facebook e.g. loving his Honda enjoying Seinfeld and the gym and even speculations which are most likely correct e.g. in all likelihood John has a cell phone with service speculated to be provided by AT T . Other examples of such hard facts are geo location data for example when John was identified in Macys. This extracted information is then processed and combined with other data sources such as syndicated psychographic and demographic research data e.g. a person who drives a Honda is a client of Sprint has one young child and goes to the gym is most likely male between the ages of 20 and 40 with a minimum high school education and scored via score engine to generate a profile .

These unique data points can be referred to as elements as shown in . The system represent data as segments e.g. groups of elements and types e.g. segment of evidence . Segments and types are then combined via suitable algorithms to form individual DNAs e.g. binary assignments and signature e.g. zero to 100 score assignments as shown in .

The signatures and DNAs are then clustered together into baskets of potential combinations of features . In this example the system clusters the data points into 200 baskets each of which is defined by for example 250 000 related data entries features. For example every person in Basket 1 has a high likelihood of liking McDonalds Pepsi driving a BMW and being a single male.

With the information extraction data mining and text mining steps now finished the system is ready to classify new data as shown in . A newly arrived data vector representing a new individual or a group is projected onto the baskets in and the degree to which the new data vector belongs to each basket is then determined and a corresponding fingerprint vector is computed based on the projection results. In this example the newly arrived data vector Fingerprint A has a high likelihood of falling in Basket 1 71 .

The system can also determine the answer to a question posed by a customer. As shown in a user e.g. Sprint wishes to find out the social propensity of a set of its customers for the purposes of pitching mobile phone services to them. This can be performed via determining a score for each customer which represents his her social propensity based on the fingerprint determination done in . Social propensity may for example be defined as an aggregate score encompassing features such as frequency of Facebook use number of friends on Facebook use of micro blogging sites using a mobile phone to update Facebook and spending several hours a day on the Internet.

The function of the information extraction profile builder text mining and data mining systems of is thus to extract process and make sense of semi structured information from unstructured data automatically for example using natural language processing techniques and extracting relevant and domain specific information from text streams. The information extraction and mining systems thus address very specific problems. The system looks for information which is useful for entity identification e.g. its attribute and relations related to a system goal finding the right treatment for the right customer and delivers values to clients as specified by the clients. A focus of the system is on information about people their attributes their interests and their relationships. This information is either static or dynamic. Static information has attributes that do not change frequently over time are somewhat predictable and may be deterministic more or less e.g. age gender education etc. . Dynamic information has attributes that change over time frequently e.g. movies watched by a person products reviewed by a person favorite products etc. .

Using the information extraction and mining system of the system can provide a set of scores assigned to each feature and to each individual or group. The scores can directly represent or be interpreted as likelihood or probability or an index permitting transparent and readily understandable comparisons among individuals or groups.

Via weighted combination of elements defined and computed by the system the system can define a variety of products broadly categorized into 

 1 Standard products with are industry independent products. Examples are social propensity mobile propensity recklessness life outlook optimism and the like.

 2 Customized products which are Industry specific products. Examples are frequent flyer propensity likelihood of donations to public radio and the like.

The information architecture of the system shown in can include three layers Layer personal and identifiable information such as IDs names and the like Layer derived knowledge personal attributes relationships interests behaviors and opinions and Layer actual text and its date.

Layer can include possible social media IDs phone numbers emails and any type of information which might be used for identification can be stored in this layer. This layer can be physically separated from the rest of the application and data storage for responsible aggregation and privacy concerns.

Layer is the information layer. Attributes e.g. age gender zip code salary etc. along with a confidence level is be stored in this layer. Relationships and connections among entities also are stored in this layer. Extracted knowledge from entities can be stored in this layer. For each entity the system can match the entity attributes to the available syndicate research data or a predetermined baseline and stores the confidence values.

Layer is the Text Layer. Here the system keeps the actual text source and its date since clients might want to look at the actual text the system might need to extract more information from free text in future the system employs this data for future research and development and the system may need this data to tune and modify the data mining and machine learning algorithms.

The above described systems and methods can include alternative embodiments and implementations of the engineering and architecture system for example using different databases knowledgebase tech support systems client services and real time scoring and real time social monitoring and the like.

The above described devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments can include for example any suitable servers workstations PCs laptop computers PDAs Internet appliances handheld devices cellular telephones wireless devices other electronic devices and the like capable of performing the processes of the illustrative embodiments. The devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments can communicate with each other using any suitable protocol and can be implemented using one or more programmed computer systems or devices.

One or more interface mechanisms can be used with the illustrative embodiments including for example Internet access telecommunications in any suitable form e.g. voice modem and the like wireless communications media and the like. For example employed communications networks or links can include one or more wireless communications networks cellular communications networks cable communications networks satellite communications networks G3 communications networks Public Switched Telephone Network PSTNs Packet Data Networks PDNs the Internet intranets WiMax Networks a combination thereof and the like.

It is to be understood that the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments are for illustrative purposes as many variations of the specific hardware and or software used to implement the illustrative embodiments are possible as will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s . For example the functionality of one or more of the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments can be implemented via one or more programmed computer systems or devices.

To implement such variations as well as other variations a single computer system can be programmed to perform the special purpose functions of one or more of the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments. On the other hand two or more programmed computer systems or devices can be substituted for any one of the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments. Accordingly principles and advantages of distributed processing such as redundancy replication and the like also can be implemented as desired to increase the robustness and performance the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments.

The devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments can store information relating to various processes described herein. This information can be stored in one or more memories such as a hard disk optical disk magneto optical disk RAM and the like of the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments. One or more databases of the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments can store the information used to implement the illustrative embodiments of the present invention. The databases can be organized using data structures e.g. records tables arrays fields graphs trees lists and the like included in one or more memories or storage devices listed herein. The processes described with respect to the illustrative embodiments can include appropriate data structures for storing data collected and or generated by the processes of the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments in one or more databases thereof.

All or a portion of the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments can be conveniently implemented using one or more general purpose computer systems microprocessors digital signal processors micro controllers application processors domain specific processors application specific signal processors and the like programmed according to the teachings of the illustrative embodiments of the present invention as will be appreciated by those skilled in the computer and software arts. Appropriate software can be readily prepared by programmers of ordinary skill based on the teachings of the illustrative embodiments as will be appreciated by those skilled in the software art. In addition the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments can be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be appreciated by those skilled in the electrical art s . Thus the illustrative embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and or software.

Stored on any one or on a combination of computer readable media the illustrative embodiments of the present invention can include software for controlling the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments for driving the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments for enabling the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments to interact with a human user and the like. Such software can include but is not limited to device drivers firmware operating systems development tools applications software and the like. Such computer readable media further can include the computer program product of an embodiment of the present invention for performing all or a portion e.g. if processing is distributed of the processing performed in implementing the illustrative embodiments. Computer code devices of the illustrative embodiments of the present invention can include any suitable interpretable or executable code mechanism including but not limited to scripts interpretable programs dynamic link libraries DLLs Java classes and applets complete executable programs Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA objects and the like. Moreover parts of the processing of the illustrative embodiments of the present invention can be distributed for better performance reliability cost and the like.

As stated above the devices and subsystems of the illustrative embodiments can include computer readable medium or memories for holding instructions programmed according to the teachings of the present invention and for holding data structures tables records and or other data described herein. Computer readable medium can include any suitable medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media transmission media and the like. Non volatile media can include for example optical or magnetic disks magneto optical disks flash memories and the like. Volatile media can include dynamic memories and the like. Transmission media can include coaxial cables copper wire fiber optics and the like. Transmission media also can take the form of acoustic optical electromagnetic waves and the like such as those generated during radio frequency RF communications infrared IR data communications and the like. Common forms of computer readable media can include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other suitable magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other suitable optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other suitable physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other suitable memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other suitable medium from which a computer can read.

While the present invention have been described in connection with a number of illustrative embodiments and implementations the present invention is not so limited but rather covers various modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims.

