---

title: Prompting user action in conjunction with tagged content on a social networking system
abstract: A social networking system user is prompted to take an action or is provided with additional information associated with a location where the user has checked-in or has associated with content using a tag. When an input including the check-in or tagged location is received, the social networking system selects one or more actions based on the location, the user, and/or contextual information included in the input. A prompt identifying the one or more of the selected actions is generated and presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330421&OS=09330421&RS=09330421
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09330421
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130221
---
This invention relates generally to social networking systems and in particular to prompting a user for additional interaction associated with tagged content provided to a social networking system.

Social networking systems allow users to connect to and to communicate with other social networking system users. Users of a social networking system create profiles on the social networking system that are associated with their identities and include information about the users such as interests and demographic information. The users may be individuals or entities such as corporations or charities. Because of the increasing popularity of social networking systems and the significant amount of user specific information maintained by social networking systems a social networking system presents an ideal forum for informing users about content maintained by the social networking system in which users have expressed an interest.

Conventionally social networking systems allow users to check in at locations and to post content about themselves and other users through status updates and other types of posts communicated to the social networking system. For example a user may indicate it was at a specific location with other users by checking in at the location and identifying other users at the location. Content provided by the user may be presented to other social networking system users in a story displayed on a newsfeed presented to other social networking system users. However conventional social networking systems do not identify additional content related to the story that may be of interest to the user viewing the story.

Social networking systems conventionally allow users to check in at locations or to associated a location with content provided to the social networking systems tag a location associated with content . For example a user checks in to a theme park and uploads a photograph photo taken at the theme park to a social networking system. The check in causes the social networking system to generate a story describing the check in and identifying the user to other users of the social networking system such as users connected to the user or users associated with the uploaded photograph. However information associated with content described by the story may not be readily accessible to users viewing the story. For example a user checking into a theme park or tagging a theme park in a post by another user may not be aware that of an offer for half priced admission at an affiliated theme park available through the social networking system.

To enhance user experience the social networking system prompts users to perform additional actions associated with objects maintained by the social networking system when users check in at a location associated with an object or associated an object with content provided to the social networking system trigger events . For example may be presented when users tag content with an application a game a user or any other suitable object. The social networking system may prompt users to perform various actions. Examples of actions prompted by the social networking system include claiming an offer installing an application liking a page accessing on an advertisement accessing a story describing an action performed by another social networking system user providing more specific information about a post or any other suitable action. For example if a user checks in at location associated with a movie theater and provides the name of the movie viewed at the movie theater the social networking system may display a prompt with an offer from the movie theater for free popcorn or a link to download an application associated with the movie.

In addition to considering the check ins or associations with objects the social networking system may use user information and or contextual information provided by the user e.g. language used in a check in to select the action it prompts a user to take. For example if a user checks in at a location and creates a post stating it is buying a new car the social networking system may determine that the user is referring to a FORD truck if the check in location is associated with a FORD dealership and the user has recently tagged photos of trucks. Based on this information the social networking system may prompt the user for more detailed information such as the model of the truck being purchased.

Prompts for a user to take actions related to a check in or association with an object are presented to the user via a user interface. For example a prompt is presented in a pop up window in the same interface used to create the post composer interface or in any suitable location. Presentation of a prompt may depend on the type of device used to access the social networking system e.g. through a mobile device desktop computer tablet etc. . In one embodiment the prompt may be presented to additional users that did not perform a trigger event but are associated with the trigger event. For example if one user tags another user in a post the tagged user may be presented with a prompt along with a newsfeed story about the post.

Multiple prompts may be displayed for each check in or association with an object. A user may to scroll among various prompts associated with a check in or association with an object. Prompts may be ranked in a display queue e.g. by relevance to the user and presented in an order based on the ranking. For example prompts displayed for a check in at a location associated with an equestrian facility may include advertisements for horseback riding gear and stories about other users that downloaded a horse racing game. The advertisements may be ranked higher than the stories if the social networking system determines from actions performed by the user and profile information associated with the user that the user is an avid rider and has never installed any games.

If the social networking system receives an input accessing a prompt for an action the user may be directed to a destination associated with the prompted action that was accessed. For example the user may be directed to a third party website to purchase a product if the user accesses a prompt presenting an advertisement for the product. Likewise a user may be directed to a page for a hotel if the user interacts with a prompt presenting a story describing another user that recently checked in at a location associated with the hotel.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

When a user of a social networking system checks in at a location associated with an object or tags an object in content provided to the social networking system e.g. in a status update the social networking system provides the user with information about the object or location and or prompts the user to take an action related to the object or location. Examples of prompts include providing a link to install an application related to the object requesting that the user provide additional information about the user s experience at the location associated with the object etc.

An action may be selected for prompting to a user based on a number of factors such as prior actions by the user contextual information provided by the user such as the language used in content associated with the check in or any other suitable information. The selected action is provided to the user in a prompt. For example if a user checks in at a movie theater and provides contextual information for the check in that the user is seeing a movie at Sundance Kabuki Cinemas the social networking system may prompt the user for more detailed information such as the name of the movie. Additionally based on actions previously performed by the user if the social networking system determines that the user has a preference for a particular director the user may be presented with a prompt including an advertisement for an upcoming DVD release of another movie by the same director.

The social networking system may display the prompt in a variety of ways. For example the prompt may appear in an interface in conjunction with a story to which a user is directed when checking in at a location or creating a post including content associated with an object. The prompts may also be presented in pop up windows in the composer interface used to create a check in or provide content in a window displayed on the side of the screen in a timeline associated with the user s profile in conjunction with a story describing the check in or content or in any other suitable communication channel.

A prompt may direct a user to a destination associated with the prompted action when the user accesses the prompt. For example if a prompt displays a link to install an application the user may be directed to a destination from which the application may be installed when accessing the prompt. This allows a user to more easily perform actions prompted by the social networking system.

The client devices comprise one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer. In another embodiment a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone or similar device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network may include communication channels using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of the communication channels may be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec . The third party website may be coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system .

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user account that is typically associated with a single user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include information inferred by the social networking system . A user profile may include multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . Hence user profile information stored in the user profile store describes various social networking system users including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and any other suitable information. User profile information may also include data describing one or more relationships between a user and other users. Additionally the user profile store may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions performed by the corresponding user and stored in the action store .

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing people to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system users. While an administrator or individual associated with the entity creates the user profile for the entity the entity is identified as the account holder associated with the user profile. The entity may post information about itself information about its products including catalogs of products or provide other information to users of the social networking system accessing a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the entity associated with the brand page. A user profile associated with an entity may provide users with background or informational data about the entity.

The action logger receives communications describing user actions internal to and external to the social networking system . The action logger populates the action store with information describing user actions. When a user performs an action using the social networking system the action logger adds an entry to the action store describing the action. Examples of actions include posting a comment on a page sending a message to another user posting a photo changing relationship status with another user and attending an event. In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. Some actions may be taken by users while not connected to the social networking system and communicated to the social networking system for storage when a connection is established.

The action store maintains information describing actions by social networking system users internal to the social networking system as well as actions performed via third party websites that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects maintained by the social networking system and these interactions are stored in the action store . Examples of actions or interactions stored by the action store include commenting on posts sharing links tagging objects and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device or other client device . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action store include commenting on a photo album transmitting messages to another user joining an event joining a group becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application interacting with an advertisement and engaging in a transaction.

The interface generator generates one or more interfaces such as web pages including content from the social networking system . For example interfaces generated by the interface generator include images video profile information or other data. The interface generator also generates one or more interfaces allowing the social networking system to request information from users and for users to provide information to the social networking system via a client device and the network . For example the interface generator generates a form for a user to provide biographic information such as the user s age for inclusion in the user s user profile. When other users request a user s profile page the interface generator retrieves data from the profile store and generates a representation of the information in the user profile for presentation by a client device .

The interface generator also generates an interface for displaying prompts associated with actions identified based on a trigger event a prompt interface . In various embodiments the prompt interface is displayed in a variety of ways. For example the prompt interface is displayed in a composer interface when a user checks in to a location associated with an object or is displayed in a pop up window in conjunction with a story about the check in presented in a user s timeline. The prompt interface allows users to take an action associated with a check in or association between an object and content. For example the prompt interface displays an offer for a user to claim a free meal voucher at a hotel at which the user has checked in or displays stories describing other users that expressed a preference for a brand page associated with the hotel. In one embodiment the prompt interface allows a user to scroll between multiple prompts associated with a single check in or association between an object and content e.g. accessing a scroll bar . The prompt interface is further described below in conjunction with .

The edge store includes information describing connections between users and other objects in the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Generally establishing a connection to a user in a social networking system allows access to more information about the user to which the connection was established than would be available to unconnected users. For example users connected to each other may receive informational updates about each other including actions performed by each user on the social networking system via stories presented on newsfeeds. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system or commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system . These edges may be visible to other social networking system users. Multiple interactions between a user and an object may be stored in a single edge in the edge store or may each be stored as a separate edge. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

The object store stores information about content maintained by the social networking system . Different content items each representing individual pieces of content provided by the social networking system to users are stored as objects in the object store . Examples of objects include applications e.g. a game playable within the social networking system events e.g. a concert that users may attend groups pages products or services e.g. clothing electronics cleaning services or beauty services media items e.g. pictures videos audio text or any other type of media content locations associated with a user e.g. Santa Clara Calif. USA concepts or other terms e.g. Victorian literature or other suitable data presented to users. The object store may also store objects representing other data generated by social networking system users such as messages status updates photos videos comments notes and postings. An object in the object store may represent an entity existing within the social networking system e.g. an application available on the social networking system an entity existing outside the domain of the social networking system e.g. a website or a real world entity e.g. a sports team or a retail store .

The object store may store data for generating content presented to social networking system users such as code of an application or image data associated with image media. Alternatively for objects representing entities outside of the social networking system the object store includes a pointer or a reference to a destination associated with an entity such as the uniform resource locator URL of an external media item. Additionally the object store may store metadata associated with objects such as a name describing the object e.g. Charles Williams for a page for a person Birthday Reminder for an application or Penguin Fanciers for a group an image representing the object e.g. a user profile picture or one or more tags assigned to the object by users e.g. the textual strings game crime and strategy for a strategy game application . Different types of objects may have different types of metadata such as a set of associated users for a group a media type e.g. video for a media item object and a unique user identifier or name tokens e.g. separate first and last names Charles and Williams for a an object representing a person.

The context analyzer analyzes the context associated with content provided to the social networking system from a user as well as the user s user profile and stored actions to identify actions of actions to present when a user checks in to a location associated with an object or associates the object with content. In one embodiment the context analyzer determines actions relevant to an object associated with a location based on text data included in the content provided to the social networking system along with a check in or association with an object. Analyzing received text data allows the context analyzer to discern relevant subject matter e.g. whether the word Fiji tagged in a user s post refers to a location or a brand of bottled later and user sentiment as well as any other suitable information. The context analyzer may also retrieve information from the user profile store action store edge store and or object store to identify actions relevant to a user performing a check in or associating an object with content and to select an action for presentation to the user. Context analysis may be performed using one or more machine learning processes or any other suitable process for determining a user s intent sentiment or affinity.

The web server communicates data between the social networking system and one or more client devices as well as one or more third party websites via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. In one embodiment the web server receives and routes messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and short message service SMS messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are stored in the object store . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or RIM .

Based on the received trigger event the social networking system selects an action object or location included in the trigger event for presenting to the user via the prompt interface. Examples of actions presented via the prompt interface include allowing a user to claim an offer interacting with an advertisement or story installing an application expressing a preference for a page or other object providing additional information about an object or location included in the trigger event. Presenting an offer in response to a user check in and presenting an advertisement in response to a user check in are further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 564 583 filed on Aug. 1 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 977 027 filed on Dec. 22 2010 respectively which are each hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Based on the location or object and contextual information associated with the trigger event the context analyzer selects an action for presentation to the user. For example one or more actions associated with a tag included in the context identifying a location are selected . The context analyzer selects actions based on the type of location or object associated with content using information retrieved from the object store e.g. if the location is a retail store an action may include allowing the user to interact with an advertisement for a product sold at the retail store . The context analyzer may also analyze text information in content associated with the trigger event or with content associated with the trigger event when selecting actions. For example if a user checks in to a location associated with a movie theater and includes in a post that the user saw a movie at the location a prompt for more specific information may ask the user to provide the name of the movie.

In one embodiment if an object associated with content may have different types e.g. Fiji may be interpreted as a place or a brand of bottled water the context analyzer analyzes the context in which the object is associated with content appears to select actions. Additionally the context analyzer may discern a user s emotions or opinions form received content to aid in selecting an action. For example the context analyzer may determine that content including That movie was hilarious indicates the movie caused the user to have a good mood. Based on this determination the context analyzer selects an action that presents the user with an advertisement for gag gifts.

The context analyzer may analyze a user s user profile and previously performed actions when selecting actions for presentation by via the prompt interface. For example information in a user profile and or stored actions associated with the user is analyzed to determine characteristics of the user. In one embodiment the context analyzer identifies one or more applications associated with a location or object associated with a location based on information in a user profile and or stored actions associated with the user. Other information from the user profile store the action store and the edge store may be retrieved to determine characteristics of the user. For example if a user checks in at a location associated with a sushi restaurant relevant actions include viewing information about another sushi restaurant associated with a previous check in by the user such as a length of time since the previous check in or offers provided by the current restaurant. Machine learned processes or any other suitable process may be used to analyze contextual information.

The action selected by the context analyzer is presented as a prompt in the prompt interface which may be presented in a variety of ways to the user from which the trigger input was received . Examples of presentation of the prompt interface are described above. For example the prompt interface may be integrated into and displayed with a composer interface a newsfeed or a timeline. For example the prompt interface may be displayed to the user in a newsfeed in conjunction with a story describing the trigger event or displayed in a timeline associated with the user in conjunction with a story describing the trigger event. In one embodiment the prompt interface prompts the user to install one or more of the identified applications associated with the location or object associated with the location. The appearance of the prompt including the selected action may vary based on the type of client device used to access the social networking system e.g. whether a mobile version or a full version of the social networking system is displayed . In one embodiment the prompt is also displayed to users other than the user performing the trigger event. For example the prompt is displayed in the newsfeed of other users identified in content associated with the trigger event or other users connected to the user who performed the trigger event. If the prompt is displayed to other users the action in the prompt may be differently selected based on user specific characteristics similar to the selection described above.

Multiple actions may be presented in a prompt interface if the context analyzer determines that more than one action is relevant to a particular location object user and or context. shows an example of a prompt interface including more than one action. In the example of a user checks in at a location associated movie theater and identifies a movie name in content associated with the check in. A story describing the check in and associated content is presented and the prompt interface includes various actions such as liking a page about the movie visiting an application for a game based on the movie liking a page for the theater and claiming an offer for the theater. To allow viewing of multiple actions associated with a single object or location associated with an object the prompt interface allows the user to navigate between multiple actions e.g. by accessing a scroll bar . In one embodiment multiple actions are ranked in a display queue and displayed in the prompt interface in an order based on the display queue. For example the prompt interface may display prompts to install applications in an order based on the likelihood of the user installing the identified application which may be calculated based on user profile information associated with the user actions performed by the user on the social networking system actions performed by the user on one or more third party websites information associated with one or more users of the social networking system connected to the user and or a geographic location associated with the user. In another embodiment a specified number actions such as the highest ranked actions or actions having at least a threshold ranking are displayed. Actions may be ranked based in part on their relevance to the user i.e. how likely the user is to take the action prompted .

The social networking system may direct the user to a destination associated with the action presented by the prompt interface when an input accessing the presented action is received . For example if the selected action prompts the user to claim an offer or interact with an advertisement the user may be directed to a page or third party website allowing the user to claim the offer print a coupon purchase a product or service or perform another suitable action when an input selecting an action is received . If the selected action prompts the user to interact with a story an application or a page the user may be directed to a destination for retrieving information about the story installing the application expressing a preference for the page creating a post for the page or performing another action when an input selecting an action is received . Additionally if the selected action allows the user to receive additional information about the location or object the user may be directed to a destination for retrieving the information. In one embodiment if the selected action prompts the user to provide additional information about the object or location associated with the trigger event information provided by the user may be included in content associated with the trigger event and may be used to select additional actions.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described. Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

