---

title: Dynamic game system and associated methods
abstract: Dynamic game system and associated methods provide a three dimensional dynamic environment for a game or simulation. The dynamic game system includes a controller for generating a dynamic image for the dynamic environment and a flexible game board, in communication with the controller, for displaying the dynamic image. The game board is flexible and provides depth to the three dimensional environment. The controller automatically zooms the dynamic image in and out between detail levels of the game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08821280&OS=08821280&RS=08821280
owner: 
number: 08821280
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130220
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 600 848 titled Dynamic Game System and Associated Methods filed Feb. 20 2012 and incorporated herein by reference.

With conventional board games the board is typically constructed of a material with a printed surface upon which pieces are placed and moved during a game. That is the game board is a static usually horizontal and often two dimensional planar gaming environment.

In one embodiment game board is formed of a plurality of display segments see also display segments of and respectively that are controlled by controller and that may be positioned and or coupled together to form display surface . In the example of display surface is formed of four similarly sized and shaped display segments . In one embodiment game board is formed with a plurality of liquid crystal display LCD segments that flexibly couple together and allow contouring. Each display segment that forms display surface need not be rectangular in shape and the overall shape of game board also need not be rectangular.

In one embodiment shown in game board is formed of a plurality of hexagonal display segments that are positioned and or coupled together to form display surface . The number of display segments may be selected based upon the game or simulation to be played. In one embodiment controller is fixedly coupled to first display segment and displays instructions for coupling additional display segments to each other to form game board for the selected game or simulation. As each display segment is added to form game board it becomes communicatively coupled with controller that may then activate it to display additional connectivity and instructions. In one embodiment each display segment has electrical connectivity on each edge such that connecting segments together allows communication with one another and or with controller .

In one embodiment each display segment has a unique ID within system and controller generates and distributes an appropriate image for each display segment based upon positioning of segments that form display surface . Each display segment may include local electronics for managing and generating its local display based upon instructions and information received from controller . In one embodiment each display segment includes a graphic processor controller not shown that is similar to circuitry of a display card within a PC. This allows communication between controller and each display segment to be optimized to reduce the need for continual refreshing of each display segment . In one example of operation controller paints to each display segment in a way that is similar to the processor of a PC displaying images on two separate displays. Each display segment may include other functionality that facilitates connectivity to adjacent display segments. In one embodiment each display segment propagates connects a logical message bus to each connected display segment such that controller may communicate with each display segment without requiring a direct electrical connection there between. In one example the logical message bus operates as a parallel bus wherein each display segment receives all messages from controller but only acts upon messages addressed to that display segment.

In one embodiment where a display segment is shaped other than as a conventional rectangle visible pixels of the display segment are mapped to a portion of a rectangular display area. The graphic processor controller within the display segment fills the pixels of the rectangular display area that map to visible pixels of the display segment. During game development a software development kit SDK may be provided to game developers to hide such complexity. In one embodiment system conceptually operates with a single image for the entire game board wherein software within controller and each display segment functions to ensure the image is divided and displayed upon appropriate display segments.

Controller controls game board to display one or more static or dynamic e.g. animated or moving images on display surface that are appropriate for the game or simulation in progress. Game board may be molded to provide elevation changes that correspond to image displayed thereon to provide a three dimensional environment for the game play or simulation. In one example of operation a first image is displayed on game board by controller to indicate a starting position of pieces for the game. Similarly where a game is paused controller may display piece positions that allow the previous state of the game to be restored upon request by the user. In another example of use a current status of a game or simulation may be saved e.g. a checkpoint from which the game may be restored if a subsequent play does not result in a desired outcome for the user.

Controller may provide audio output e.g. using speakers for example to add sound effects to game play or to provide instruction to players using system . Speakers may be configured within controller as shown in or may be configured within game board . Controller may change image dynamically during game play and simulation to reflect a current activity. For example where game play is a war game and image represents a battle area controller dynamically changes image to show explosions smoke and damage to the battle area resulting from weapon fire.

Game board and controller may be used with conventional static playing pieces e.g. chess pieces not shown wherein image is displayed upon display surface to represent a conventional board e.g. a chess board . Optionally game board and controller may be used with one or more dynamic game piece and or one or more actuated game piece together with or in place of the one or more conventional game pieces.

Dynamic game piece has wheels and for self moving and is in communication with controller . Actuated game piece does not move its position but includes an actuated feature such as the satellite shown in that is activated by controller for example. Dynamic game piece and actuated game piece are for example robots sized and shaped for play on game board .

Controller communicates wirelessly with dynamic game piece and actuated game piece . In one embodiment controller implements a wireless network hub wherein pieces and communicate with controller and optionally each other using the wireless network. In an alternate embodiment one or more of controller dynamic game piece and actuated game piece connects to an existing wireless network e.g. a Wi Fi hub or hot spot to facilitate communication. In yet another embodiment one or more of controller dynamic game piece and actuated game piece forms a wireless ad hoc network thereby allowing the devices to communicate directly with each other peer to peer . In yet another embodiment controller communicates with each game piece using Bluetooth.

Controller may include a user interface that provides a gaming interface e.g. a plurality of input buttons for interaction with one or more uses. Controller may also communicate with one or more wireless user interfaces that allow a user to interact with system during game play and simulation. Controller may couple wired or wirelessly with other game controllers such as a gesture recognition device similar to the Microsoft Kinect device. Wireless user interface is illustratively shown with navigation buttons and selection buttons. However wireless user interface may also represent one or more of a smart phone e.g. an iPhone a tablet e.g. an iPad and a personal computer which are configured for interaction with controller and game play and simulation of system . For example a smart phone and a tablet may execute an app downloaded from an app store to facilitate communication with controller wherein the app provides a graphical touch interface appropriate for the game or simulation being played on system .

System may also communicate with other similar systems to extend game play. In one example of use two or more systems connect together and cooperate to provide a larger game and simulator environment. In another example of use two or more systems are remotely located and communicate with each other via the Internet wherein each system participates in a shared game and simulator environment displaying a view of at least a portion of that environment to its local player s . Optionally each system may communicate with an Internet based server that provides connectivity between the remote systems.

In one example of operation controller generates image to represent an initial game state and a user positions one or more game pieces on game board . The user interacts with system to control game pieces that move and actuate themselves. Controller controls game board to display effects of the user s and the user s opponents actions optionally moves pieces and optionally plays sounds.

Game board may be controlled to zoom in to specific action points or may represent only a portion of a game environment at any one time wherein game board dynamically changes and game pieces reposition automatically as game play moves into a different portion of the game environment. An example of the zoom in feature is shown in .

USB interface may be used to connect multiple systems together and or to connect system to another computer e.g. a personal computer . USB interface may also connect to other devices e.g. external hard drives web cams a game control device a keyboard or a mouse as needed for game play or simulation or for controller maintenance and upgrades e.g. a firmware upgrade .

Transceiver facilitates wireless connectivity between controller and game pieces between controller and wireless user interface and between controller and another system . Transceiver may provide one or more of a Bluetooth interface a Wi Fi interface an ANT interface Near Field Communication NFC and a proprietary wireless interface. For example transceiver may utilize Wi Fi for accessing the Internet through a local wireless network and for communication between controller and one or more wireless user interfaces and may utilize Bluetooth for communication between controller and one or more wireless game pieces .

Controller is also shown with user interface that includes at least one speaker and input devices e.g. push buttons joysticks and other gaming input options . Although shown within user interface of controller speaker may be configured elsewhere e.g. within game board or external to both controller and game board without departing from the scope hereof. Optionally user interface may also include one or more of an audio jack a microphone and a web cam that operate under control of controller . Wireless user interfaces may also include one or more of an audio jack a microphone input devices and a web cam that may be used to provide input to and receive output from controller . For example where wireless user interface represents a tablet or a smart phone the microphone speakers audio jack and web cam may already be included. Other input devices may connect to wireless user interface without departing from the scope hereof.

Controller may utilize speaker to provide sound effects for the dynamic actions of game play and simulation and instructions to the user. The one or more audio jacks if included allow users to connect headphones. Microphone if included allows the user to make audio inputs e.g. speech commands to system and may also allow the user to communicate with other connected users via system and optionally the Internet. If web cam is included the user may also provide visual input e.g. gestures into system and or have visual communication with other connected users via system and the Internet.

In one example of operation in response to interaction with the user controller may wirelessly send instructions to game piece to move two inches in an X direction on game board and to turn to face a Y direction wherein game piece first turns to face in the X direction moves two inches and then turns to face the Y direction. Controller stores the current location orientation and status of each game piece within memory e.g. as data and controls movement of game piece relative to that position. The user may save and restore the board position at any time through interaction with controller wherein controller uses game board to indicate the position and orientation of each piece. Similarly if a user accidently moves a piece the user may interact with controller to request that controller display the position and orientation of that piece or of the entire game or simulation.

Game piece may also include an audio output e.g. a speaker and one or more visual outputs e.g. LEDs LCD display or other visual effects that are activated by processor executing instruction of software and in response to instruction received from controller and or other game pieces . In one example of operation processor causes an LED of visual output to flash and audio output to generate an explosive sound in response to receiving a hit signal from game piece . In another example controller instructs processor to activate an LCD screen on game piece to display a type of game piece that is represented. That is game piece is generic and configured for a particular game under control of controller . In one embodiment visual output displays a number to indicate a status of game piece during game play or simulation. In another embodiment visual output displays a color and or an icon to indicate to which user player the piece currently belongs.

In one example of operation in response to interaction with the user controller may wirelessly send instructions to game piece to activate feature wherein processor activates motor to deploy feature . Controller stores the current location orientation and status of each game piece within memory e.g. as data and controls activation of feature .

Game piece may also include an audio output e.g. a speaker and one or more visual outputs e.g. LEDs LCD display or other visual effects that are activated by processor executing instruction of software and in response to instruction received from controller and or other game pieces . In one example of operation processor causes an LED of visual output to flash and audio output to generate an explosive sound in response to receiving a hit signal from game piece . In another example controller instructs processor to activate an LCD screen on game piece to display a type of game piece that is represented. That is game piece is generic and configured for a particular game under control of controller . In one embodiment visual output displays a number to indicate a status of game piece during game play or simulation. In another embodiment visual output displays a color and or an icon to indicate to which user player the piece currently belongs.

In one embodiment functionality of game pieces and may be combined wherein the combined game piece may autonomously move across game board and activate one or more features based upon instructions received wirelessly from controller .

Each game piece has a number that uniquely identifies it to controller . By including the unique number of the game piece being addressed controller may thereby control each game piece individually. As each game piece is controlled and or moved across game board image may be modified to indicate a current game or simulation state or to indicate locally to a modified game piece a new status of that piece.

In one embodiment each game piece may be shaped sized and colored for a particular game or simulation. For example features of game piece may be specific to a particular game wherein the user purchases that game piece to play the game. In one example game piece is configured to look like a soldier for use in a game where the game pieces fight battles.

Game boards e.g. game board of each system may be positioned adjacent to one another to form a larger game environment or may function independently to each form a related portion of a larger virtual game or simulation environment. Optionally each system may connect to a separate computer e.g. a personal computer notebook etc. that executes software for controlling each system collectively or independently.

Where systems and includes one or more of microphone and web cam or a web cam connected via USB interface the first and second users may interact with each other via Internet . For example game play and simulation is enhanced by interaction of the users beyond the game or simulation environment.

Optionally communication between systems may be facilitated by a server that is accessible via Internet . Server may represent one or more physical computers that are communicatively connected and may or may not be co located. In one embodiment server generates a web site to which each system connects via Internet . Server may also include an online store for purchase of new games to play using system . For example a user may interact with system to instruct controller to purchase and download a new game from server wherein controller stores the downloaded game within memory e.g. as part of software and or data .

Server may also facilitate development of new games simulation and game pieces by third party developers. For example server may contain a software development kit that defines an application programming interface for game board and game pieces such that the third party developer may generate software that when downloaded and executed by processor of controller controls game board to display a suitable environment e.g. a game board and controls movement of game pieces thereon.

In one embodiment software runs on server to create an environment for a game into which multiple systems may connect and interact. For example server may generate environment as a game for a plurality of user. System connects to server via Internet such that one or more users may interact with system to play within environment . In one example of operation environment represents an interactive adventure type game where each of a plurality of users interacting with system moves dynamic game piece through a portion of environment displayed by display surface of system . Each portion of environment may represent a room that presents the user with one or more puzzles. Items e.g. tools and objects may be displayed within the room and collected by dynamic game piece where in the object disappears from the display.

Actuators are similar to each other and each has a base portion and an actuated portion . In one embodiment base portion and actuated portion are threaded wherein base portion has a motor that turns actuated portion relative to base portion such that actuated portion moves in and out depending on the motor turning direction from base portion . Game board is supported by and optionally coupled to the top of actuated portion such that the area of game board proximate the actuator moves with actuated portion .

Although shown with sixteen actuators fewer or more actuator may be used without departing from the scope hereof. Further although actuators are shown equally distributed actuators may be otherwise spaced without departing from the scope hereof.

Actuators are communicatively coupled with controller that operates to adjust height of each actuator to create elevation changes in game board . For example controller may adjust the height of each actuator such that height of each areas of game board resembled terrain depicted by image . In one example of operation image depicts a plan view of a river valley and controller controls actuators to set elevation of the area of game board depicting the river. shows cross section of game board that illustrates a valley formed in game board wherein image is positioned on game board such that an animated flowing river appears in valley .

In an alternate embodiment valley is manually formed in game board using a substantially rigid plastic former into which game board is inserted wherein the former bends game board to form valley . In one example of use a game requires the user to construct a bridge over the flowing river to allow a dynamic game piece to cross.

In one embodiment former and game board are each formed of smaller parts that are assembled together to form the substantially cylindrical screen. For example former may be formed of quarter cylinders parts that snap together to form former . Similarly game board may be formed as a plurality of smaller flexible screens that may be inserted into former to form the substantially cylindrical screen. Note that the parts of game board are not necessarily connected to each other but connect to and are controlled by controller .

In one embodiment game board is rolled to form a substantially cylindrical shape that is held in place by a former that clamps ends of game board together at seam wherein the cylindrical shape is maintained by rigidity of game board .

In one example of use the cylindrical screen represents a three dimensional view of the ocean where the bottom of the screen represents deep water and shows submerged vessels moving therein and the top represents the sky and shows vessels floating on the surface of the water. Vessels may be displayed smaller and bigger relative to each other to give the impression of a three dimensional view.

Dynamic game pieces may also be used on game board configured within former by using a mechanism not shown that attaches each game piece to the top of former thereby allowing the game piece to traverse the surface of game board . In one embodiment game piece may traverse vertically using the mechanism. In another embodiment game piece may also traverse laterally whereby the supporting mechanism pivots around former thereby allowing the game piece to traverse the display screen horizontally.

In the example of each hex represents a playing space within macrospace of a designated terrain type such as one of hills marsh plains woods mountains and so on. Although not shown for clarity of illustration each terrain type may be represented by a different color on display surface such that the players may easily identify the terrain type of each playing space. Although shown with forty eight hexagonal playing spaces game board may display playing spaces of other shapes and sizes as required by the game being played.

In the example game shown in a first of two players has three game pieces and the other player also has three game pieces . Each piece may be implemented by dynamic game piece with the ability to move itself under control of controller . Piece of the first player occupies playing space X and the other player indicates to controller that game piece is to move onto playing space X . Controller then controls game board to zoom in on playing space X and automatically moves game pieces and into appropriate positions for microspace that is then displayed as a result of the zoom in of display surface . In this example each playing piece within macrospace may represent one or more playing pieces within microspace .

In the example of microspace represents playing space X of macrospace and shows a plan view of a different level within the displayed game. Although microspace is shown as a hexagonal shape to match playing space X microspace could be any shape. Microspace is illustratively shown with a river a bridge crossing river and several trees . Controller automatically moves game pieces into appropriate positions within microspace illustratively shown as game pieces . Controller may also instruct each game piece to display a different color and or symbol to represent an appropriate piece. In the example of game piece utilizes a color to indicate the player to which it belongs and a symbol A to indicate the type of game piece that it represents. Controller may add or remove pieces to microspace as needed. In one example a game piece previously playing for the first player may change color to play for the other player based upon its position known to controller on game board .

Game play then continues within microspace . Controller may cause game board to display animations on display surface to make game play more realistic. In one example where the game being played is a battle controller causes game board to show effects of game play such as explosions craters etc.

In one embodiment features e.g. trees bridge river and so on within microspace are randomly generated based upon the type of terrain represented by playing space X . For example specific details of microspace may be randomly generated so that microspace is different each time wherein complexity and difficulty of game play within microspace may be selected by the players at the start of the game.

System offers many advantages over conventional board games by automatically zooming in to a micro level as required for game play and by automatically moving and assigning game pieces .

Where the type of terrain represents hills and or mountains height actuators may be controlled by controller to make elevation changes to game board to match displayed images on display surface .

In one embodiment where different dynamic pieces are to be used for microspace controller moves playing pieces off of game board and moves other playing pieces onto game board .

When game play within microspace is finished such as when one army defeats the other or when one army retreats controller zooms out of microspace to return to macrospace repositioning and reassigning playing pieces as appropriate.

System may allow any type of game where players move through a large world space and have adventures in local spaces of that world to be played and use this zoom in feature.

In step method receives a game selection from a player. In one example of step controller receives a selection of a game from a player of system . In step method displays the game graphics and positions pieces on the game board. In one example of step controller displays a macrospace on display surface of game board and positions dynamic playing pieces on game board . In step method receives an input from a player. In one example of step controller receives an input from a player of system .

Step is a decision. If in step method determines that a zoom in is required method continues with step otherwise method continues with step . In one example of step controller determines from the input of step that the next move requires a microspace more detailed level to be displayed and proceeds with step . In step method animates the game board to zoom in to a more detailed level. In one example of step controller generates an animation on display surface to zoom in to microspace from macrospace .

In step method moves playing pieces into position within the displayed level. In one example of step controller controls each of a plurality of dynamic playing pieces to position themselves on game board in association with the displayed image. Method continues with step .

Step is a decision. If in step method determines that a zoom out is required method continues with step otherwise method continues with step . In one example of step controller determines from the input of step that the battle within microspace is done that a macrospace more abstract level is to be displayed and proceeds with step . In step method animates the game board to zoom out to a less detailed level. In one example of step controller generates an animation on display surface to zoom out from microspace so macrospace . Method then continues with step described above.

In step method moves playing piece on game board based upon the player input. In one example of step controller moves dynamic playing piece on game board based upon input received in step . In step method generates animation effects. In one example of step controller controls game board to display graphical effects based upon the move made in step .

Step is a decision. If in step method determines that the game is over method terminates otherwise method continues with step . Steps through repeat until the game terminates.

Changes may be made in the above methods and systems without departing from the scope hereof. It should thus be noted that the matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings should be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. The following claims are intended to cover all generic and specific features described herein as well as all statements of the scope of the present method and system which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

