---

title: Promoting social network sharing of a content item on a content sharing platform
abstract: A method for promoting social network sharing of a content item on a content sharing platform is disclosed. The method includes determining whether actions of a user and statistics associated with a content item of a content sharing platform satisfy criteria to present a promotion to the user to share the content item on one or more social networks. The method further includes identifying, based on the actions and the statistics, presentation characteristics to display the promotion to the user to share the content item. The method also includes selecting, based on a history of the user with each of the one or more social networks, at least one of the one or more social networks to include in the promotion for the user to select from for sharing the content item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628575&OS=09628575&RS=09628575
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09628575
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130925
---
This disclosure relates to the field of content sharing platforms and in particular to promoting social network sharing of a content item on a content sharing platform.

On the Internet social networks allow users to connect to and share information with each other. Many social networks include a content sharing aspect that allows users to upload view and share content such as video content image content audio content and so on. Other users of the social network may comment on the shared content discover new content locate updates share content and otherwise interact with the provided content. The shared content may include content from professional content creators e.g. movie clips TV clips and music videos as well as content from amateur content creators e.g. video blogging and short original videos.

Currently users are spending increased amounts of time on content sharing platforms. Sharing of content items between users of the content sharing platform and with users of other social networks is important for driving views of content items of the content sharing platform starting viewing sessions on the content sharing platform and increasing watch time of content items on the content sharing platform. Sharing refers to a user of the content sharing platform promoting and or endorsing a content item to another user of the content sharing platform or of another social network for viewing purposes. As such many content sharing platforms promote sharing as a feature when viewing a content item. This sharing feature is generally a static function of a user interface UI displaying the content item for viewing by users. For example the sharing function may be a tab or icon located in a set place on the UI without regard to how the content item was accessed or the viewing and or sharing history of the user.

However in some cases when a user of a content sharing platform interacts with a sharing function of a content sharing platform there is a negative impact on overall watch time of that user at the content sharing platform. This is because the sharing function distracts the user from the content item and from continuing his or her watch session at the content sharing platform.

The following is a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosure nor delineate any scope of the particular implementations of the disclosure or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one implementation a method for promoting social network sharing of a content item on a content sharing platform is disclosed. The method includes determining whether actions of a user and statistics associated with a content item of the content sharing platform satisfy criteria to present a promotion to the user to share the content item on one or more social networks. The method further includes identifying based on the actions and the statistics presentation characteristics to present the promotion to the user to share the content item. The method also includes selecting based on a history of the user with each of the one or more social networks at least one of the one or more social networks to include in the promotion for the user to select from for sharing the content item. In some implementations the content item is a video.

In one implementation the actions of the user comprise at least one of whether the user arrived at the content item from one of the one or more social networks whether the user shared other content items on the content sharing platform whether the user has generated referrals from the one or more other social networks whether the user has been presented other promotions on the content sharing platform and a frequency and recency of the other promotions to the user whether the user uploaded the content item to the content sharing platform an affinity score of the user with a channel of the content item or predicted user actions with respect to the content item. In addition the statistics associated with the content item comprise at least one of a number of times the content item is shared a click to return rate of a share button for the content item a number of referrers for the content item an identity of the one or more social networks the content item is referred from a recency of upload of the content item to the content sharing platform a number of views of the content item whether the user has shared the content item previously or a frequency of views of the content item by the user.

Furthermore in some implementations the selecting at least one of the one or more social networks is based on which of the social networks the user arrived at the UI of the content item from which social networks the user has shared to previously which social networks has the user generated attributed refers from previously which social networks are preferred based on a geo location of an Internet Protocol IP of the user or a logged in status of the user with the social networks.

In a further implementation the presentation characteristics of the promotion comprise a location within a user interface UI presenting the content item to the user. Furthermore the location may include at least one of a pop up window within a player of the content item a banner above the player of the content item a tab displaying the promotion below the player of the content item that is shown by default when the user views the UI associated with the content item or a highlight window pointing to the tab displaying the promotion. In addition the presentation characteristics of the promotion may comprise displaying the pop up window when the user pauses viewing of the content item. Furthermore the presentation characteristics of the promotion may comprise displaying the pop up window when the user finishes viewing of the content item.

In additional implementations computing devices for performing the operations of the above described implementations are also disclosed. Additionally in implementations of the disclosure a computer readable storage media stores methods for performing the operations of the above described implementations.

Implementations are described for promoting social network sharing of a content item on a content sharing platform. In implementations of the disclosure a promotion to share a content item being viewed by a user is tailored based on a history of the user and the content item. A sharing promotion refers to a user interface UI component that can allow the user to share the content item e.g. a content item hyperlink with his or her social connections on one or more social networks. The content sharing platform can determine when and how to promote sharing of the content item to the user with different promotion options and social network options for sharing based on past activities of the user including past shares and referrals and also the previous interactions of the user with the content item.

Implementations of the disclosure have a different layer of granularity than previous solutions for promoting a content item. Previously content sharing platforms provided a static sharing feature for a user to interact with for purposes of sharing a content item. This static sharing feature was usually the same for all users of the content sharing platform and persistent in terms of appearance and location within the UIs of the content sharing platforms. By implementing methods promoting social network sharing of a content item on a content sharing platform according to the present disclosure the promotion of sharing of content items is more responsive to individual user content item circumstances and can also provide for increased watch time and increased sharing of content items between social networks thus driving additional watch time to the content sharing platform.

The client devices A through Z may each include computing devices such as personal computers PCs laptops mobile phones smart phones tablet computers netbook computers etc. In some implementations client device A through Z may also be referred to as user devices. Each client device includes a media viewer . In one implementation the media viewers may be applications that allow users to view content such as images videos web pages documents etc. For example the media viewer may be a web browser that can access retrieve present and or navigate content e.g. web pages such as Hyper Text Markup Language HTML pages digital media items etc. served by a web server. The media viewer may render display and or present the content e.g. a web page a media viewer to a user. The media viewer may also display an embedded media player e.g. a Flash player or an HTML5 player that is embedded in a web page e.g. a web page that may provide information about a product sold by an online merchant . In another example the media viewer may be a standalone application that allows users to view digital media items e.g. digital videos digital images electronic books etc. .

The media viewers may be provided to the client devices A through Z by the server and or content sharing platform . For example the media viewers may be embedded media players that are embedded in web pages provided by the content sharing platform . In another example the media viewers may be applications that are downloaded from the server .

In general functions described in one implementation as being performed by the content sharing platform can also be performed on the client devices A through Z in other implementations if appropriate. In addition the functionality attributed to a particular component can be performed by different or multiple components operating together. The content sharing platform can also be accessed as a service provided to other systems or devices through appropriate application programming interfaces and thus is not limited to use in websites.

In one implementation the content sharing platform may be one or more computing devices such as a rackmount server a router computer a server computer a personal computer a mainframe computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer etc. data stores e.g. hard disks memories databases networks software components and or hardware components that may be used to provide a user with access to media items and or provide the media items to the user. For example the content sharing platform may allow a user to consume upload search for approve of like dislike and or comment on media items. The content sharing platform may also include a website e.g. a webpage that may be used to provide a user with access to the media items.

The content sharing platform may include multiple channels e.g. channels A through Z . A channel can be data content available from a common source or data content having a common topic or theme. The data content can be digital content chosen by a user digital content made available by a user digital content uploaded by a user digital content chosen by a content provider digital content chosen by a broadcaster etc. For example a channel X can include videos Y and Z. A channel can be associated with an owner who is a user that can perform actions on the channel. Different activities can be associated with the channel based on the owner s actions such as the owner making digital content available on the channel the owner selecting e.g. liking digital content associated with another channel the owner commenting on digital content associated with another channel etc. The activities associated with the channel can be collected into an activity feed for the channel. Users other than the owner of the channel can subscribe to one or more channels in which they are interested. Once a user subscribes to a channel the user can be presented with information from the channel s activity feed. If a user subscribes to multiple channels the activity feed for each channel to which the user is subscribed can be combined into a syndicated activity feed. Information from the syndicated activity feed can be presented to the user.

Each channel may include one or more media items . Examples of a media item can include and are not limited to digital video digital movies digital photos digital music website content social media updates electronic books ebooks electronic magazines digital newspapers digital audio books electronic journals web blogs real simple syndication RSS feeds electronic comic books software applications etc. In some implementations media item is also referred to as a media item.

A media item may be consumed via the Internet and or via a mobile device application. For brevity and simplicity an online video also hereinafter referred to as a video is used as an example of a media item throughout this document. As used herein media media item online media item digital media digital media item content and content item can include an electronic file that can be executed or loaded using software firmware or hardware configured to present the digital media item to an entity. In one implementation the content sharing platform may store the media items using the data store .

In one implementation the server may be one or more computing devices e.g. a rackmount server a server computer etc. . In one implementation the server may be included in the content sharing platform . The server may include a sharing promotion component . In one implementation the sharing promotion component determines when and how to promote sharing of a content item to a user of the content sharing platform . In one implementation the promotion provided to a user is a UI component that allows the user to share the content item e.g. a content item hyperlink with his or her social connections on one or more social networks which may include the content sharing platform as well as other external social networks to the content sharing platform . The determination of when and how to promote sharing by implementations of the disclosure are specific to the user viewing the content item and to the content item being viewed by the user. Further description of the sharing promotion component and its specific functions is described in more detail below with respect to .

Although implementations of the disclosure are discussed in terms of content sharing platforms and promoting social network sharing of a content item on the content sharing platform implementations may also be generally applied to any type of social network providing connections between users. Implementations of the disclosure are not limited to content sharing platforms that provide channel subscriptions to users.

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether the content sharing platform collects user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by the content sharing platform .

The sharing promotion component is communicatively coupled to the data store . For example the sharing promotion component may be coupled to the data store via a network e.g. via network as illustrated in . In another example the sharing promotion component may be coupled directly to a server where the sharing promotion component resides e.g. may be directly coupled to server . The data store may be a memory e.g. random access memory a cache a drive e.g. a hard drive a flash drive a database system or another type of component or device capable of storing data. The data store may also include multiple storage components e.g. multiple drives or multiple databases that may also span multiple computing devices e.g. multiple server computers . The data store includes media item data user data and promotion history data .

As discussed above the sharing promotion component determines when and how to promote sharing of a content item to a user of the content sharing platform. Determining when and how to promote sharing of a content item may include first determining if the user is to be shown a promotion to share the content item then if the user is to be shown a promotion determining how the promotion is to be shown to the user in relation to the viewing of the content item and lastly determining which social network to promote the sharing for in the promotion.

In one implementation when a user accesses and watches a content item from the content sharing platform the promotion decision module determines whether a user is to be shown a promotion to share the content item on one or more social networks SNs by calculating a score for the user based on one or more attributes signals . If the calculated score exceeds a predetermined promotion threshold then the user is shown the promotion to share the content item as part of the content item viewing experience.

The calculated score may be based on a variety of signals associated with the user and or the content item being viewed. The media item data and user data from data store may be accessed to obtain the desired signal data. The media item data and user data may be logs or data based on logs of the content sharing platform that identify a history of past referrals and results from the those referrals including SNs used for referrals for a user and for content items of the content sharing platform. Various functions may be utilized to generate the score and implementations of the disclosure may implement any number of different functions to calculate the score.

In one implementation the signals per user utilized by the promotion decision module for the score calculation may include 

In another implementation the signals per content item utilized by the promotion decision module for the score calculation may include 

The social network determination module may then calculate the score for the user per each SN sharing option. If the user scores above a threshold for any SN then the promotion may be personalized for the user to share to the one or more SN s that score the highest.

In one implementation signals utilized by the social network determination module for calculating a score for the user content item pair for an individual SN may include 

Once the promotion decision module and the social network determination module have determined that the user is to receive a sharing promotion for a content item then the promotion delivery module utilizes the score and a separate overlapping set of factors to determine presentations characteristics for the promotion. In one implementation the presentation characteristics include where within the graphical user interface GUI associated with the content item viewing that the sharing promotion is to be presented to the user. The sharing promotion may be located at for example one of a variety of positions in the GUI such as within the media player screen showing the content item at one or both of a pause screen UI shown in media player when playback of the content item is paused or the end cap UI shown in media player when playback of the content item ends of the playback of the content item above the media player in the GUI below the media player in the GUI as part of a pre existing share tab of the GUI as a pop up banner in the GUI pointing to the pre existing share tab that educates users about where to share and so on. described further below provide examples of presentation characteristics e.g. different locations within a content item GUI that a sharing promotion may implement.

Some of the sharing promotion locations may cause more shares of a content item but at the expense of watch time from the user. Other locations of the sharing promotion may cause more shares of the content item in the long run for users who do not normally share e.g. the promotions that highlight where the share button is .

In some implementations a separate set of factors may be used by the promotion delivery module to determine where in the GUI to locate the sharing promotion 

In one implementation each placement option for a sharing promotion may be associated with a score range. As a result the resulting placement score for the user correlates to a particular sharing promotion placement.

A number of SNs to include in a sharing promotion may vary from one SN to multiple SNs depending on the particular promotion and or configuration settings. In general there may be a set list of SNs to which a user may share content items from the content sharing platform. Depending upon the type of promotion selected by the promotion delivery module for the user content item pair a subset of the highest scoring SNs may be shown in the promotion. In some implementations only those SNs having a score in relation to the user content item pair greater than a predetermined SN score threshold are considered for inclusion in a sharing promotion to the user.

In some implementations the promoting social network sharing of a content item on a content sharing platform described above is performed in the context of content item streaming to a mobile device that is executing a content sharing platform application specifically designed for playback of the content item.

For simplicity of explanation the methods of this disclosure are depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methods could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methods disclosed in this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or storage media. In one implementation method may be performed by sharing promotion component as shown in .

Referring to at block method begins at block when the sharing promotion component determines that a user is accessing a content item of the content sharing platform to view the content item. At block a promotion score is calculated for the user content item pair based on signals associated with the user and the content item. For example the signals may be related to referrals and shares associated with the user and the content item as well as previous activities of the user in relation to the content item. As described above with respect to a variety of signals may be utilized to calculate the promotion score.

At decision block it is determined whether the calculated promotion score exceeds a share promotion score threshold. In one implementation the share promotion score threshold is predetermined by an administrator of the content sharing platform. If the calculated promotion score does not exceed the threshold the method proceeds to block where it is determined that a sharing promotion should not be shown to the user.

On the other hand if the calculated promotion score does exceed the share promotion score threshold at decision block then method continues to block where for each SN of a group of SNs that the content item can be shared to a SN score is calculated for the user. In one implementation the SN score is based on signals related to a user referrer history with respect to the SN and user status with respect to the SN. As described above with respect to a variety of signals may be utilized to calculate the SN score.

Lastly at block one or more of the highest SN scores for the user are selected to be included in a sharing promotion for the content item. The sharing promotion is to include the selected SNs in order for the user to select from those SNS to share the content item.

Referring to at block method begins at block when an indication is received that the user is to be shown a sharing promotion with respect to viewing of a content item of the content sharing platform. In one implementation the promotion decision module of the sharing promotion component may provide this indication. Then at block a placement score for the user content item pair is calculated based on signals related to share promotion history of the user referral history of the user and the promotion score of the user e.g. promotion score calculated in method described with respect to .

At block a sharing promotion placement option is identified that has a placement score range within which the calculated placement score falls. Sharing promotion placement options may include but are not limited to a promotion placed within the media player screen showing the content item at one or both of a pause screen of the playback of the content item or the end cap of the playback of the content item a promotion placed above the media player in the GUI a promotion placed below the media player in the GUI as part of a pre existing share tab of the GUI a promotion placed as a pop up banner in the GUI pointing to a pre existing share tab that educates users about where to share and so on. In some implementations each of multiple sharing promotion placement options may be associated with a score range of promotion scores. When a promotion score falls in the particular range of a sharing promotion placement options that sharing promotion placement option is selected for the user content item pair.

At block a number of SNs are selected for the identified sharing promotion placement options. Each sharing promotion placement option may be configured to include a predetermined number of SNs to promote. These SNs are selected from the top scoring SNs of the SN scores calculated for the user content item pair. For example the SN score calculated in method described with respect to may be used to select the number of SNs to include in the sharing promotion placement option.

Subsequently at block a sharing promotion is generated in accordance with the identified sharing promotion placement option and the selected SNs for the user content item pair. At block the generated sharing promotion is provided for inclusion in a GUI of the content sharing platform associated with the viewing of the content item by the user.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processor is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT or a touch screen an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting computer readable storage media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

In one embodiment the instructions include instructions for a sharing promotion component which may correspond respectively to their identically named counterparts described with respect to and or a software library containing methods that call a sharing promotion component for promoting social network sharing of a content item on a content sharing platform. While the computer readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary implementation to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as segmenting analyzing determining enabling identifying modifying or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may include a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment or implementation unless described as such.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. 

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

