---

title: System architecture and method for composing and directing participant experiences
abstract: The present invention contemplates a variety of improved methods and systems for providing an experience platform within a CDN, as well as sentio or experience codecs, and experience agents for supporting the experience platform. The experience platform may be provided by a service provider to enable an experience provider to compose and direct a participant experience. The service provider monetizes the experience by charging the experience provider and/or the participants for services. Alternatively, the experience platform may be provided by the CDN, either as an integrated component of the CDN, or a supplemental complimentary aspect. The participant experience can involve one or more experience participants. The experience provider can create an experience with a variety of dimensions and features. As will be appreciated, the following description provides one paradigm for understanding the multi-dimensional experience available to the participants. There are many suitable ways of describing, characterizing and implementing the experience platform contemplated herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08789121&OS=08789121&RS=08789121
owner: Net Power and Light, Inc.
number: 08789121
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130207
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 279 096 filed Oct. 21 2011 entitled SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE AND METHOD FOR COMPOSING AND DIRECTING PARTICIPANT EXPERIENCES which is a non provisional and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 405 328 filed Oct. 21 2010 the entire disclosure of which are hereby expressly incorporated by reference.

The present teaching relates to experience platforms in communication with a content distribution network CDN enabling an experience provider to direct and compose an experience for one or more participants which experience may involve a variety of dimensions including video group participation gesture recognition heterogeneous device use emotions etc.

The present invention contemplates a variety of improved methods and systems for providing an experience platform in communication with a CDN as well as sentio or experience codecs and experience agents for supporting the experience platform. The experience platform may be provided by a service provider to enable an experience provider to compose and direct a participant experience. The service provider monetizes the experience by charging the experience provider and or the participants for services. Alternatively the experience platform may be provided by the CDN either as an integrated component of the CDN or a supplemental complimentary aspect. The participant experience can involve one or more experience participants. The experience provider can create an experience with a variety of dimensions and features. The experience can be encoded and transmitted via a low latency protocol. The low latency transmission protocol comprises steps of dividing the realtime participant experience into a plurality of regions wherein the realtime participant experience includes full motion video wherein the full motion video is enclosed within one of the plurality of regions converting each portion of the realtime participant experience associated with each region into at least one of picture codec data and pass through data and smoothing a border area between the plurality of regions. As will be appreciated the following description provides one paradigm for understanding the multi dimensional experience available to the participants. There are many suitable ways of describing characterizing and implementing the experience platform contemplated herein.

References in this specification to an embodiment one embodiment or the like mean that the particular feature structure or characteristic being described is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Occurrences of such phrases in this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

The following discussion contains definitions of specific terms used in this disclosure. These definitions are intended to clarify the meanings of the terms used herein. It is believed that the terms are used in a manner consistent with their ordinary meaning but the definitions are nonetheless specified here for clarity.

In this disclosure updating or processing data in realtime means that the data are updated or processed on a regular basis. For example the data may be updated and processed minute by minute second by second or even frame by frame. Thus realtime is not intended to require that the process is instantaneous. 

In general services are defined at an API layer of the experience platform. The services provide functionality that can be used to generate layers that can be thought of as representing various dimensions of experience. The layers form to make features in the experience.

By way of example the following are some of the services and or layers that can be supported on the experience platform.

Video is the near or substantially real time streaming of the video portion of a video or film with near real time display and interaction.

Synch Chalktalk provides a social drawing application that can be synchronized across multiple devices.

Virtual Experiences are next generation experiences akin to earlier virtual goods but with enhanced services and or layers.

Video Ensemble is the interaction of several separate but often related parts of video that when woven together create a more engaging and immersive experience than if experienced in isolation.

Explore Engine is an interface component useful for exploring available content ideally suited for the human computer interface in a experience setting and or in settings with touch screens and limited i o capability

Audio is the near or substantially real time streaming of the audio portion of a video film karaoke track song with near real time sound and interaction.

Live is the live display and or access to a live video film or audio stream in near real time that can be controlled by another experience dimension. A live display is not limited to single data stream.

Encore is the replaying of a live video film or audio content. This replaying can be the raw version as it was originally experienced or some type of augmented version that has been edited remixed etc.

Graphics is a display that contains graphic elements such as text illustration photos freehand geometry and the attributes size color location associated with these elements. Graphics can be created and controlled using the experience input output command dimension s see below .

Input Output Command s are the ability to control the video audio picture display sound or interactions with human or device based controls. Some examples of input output commands include physical gestures or movements voice sound recognition and keyboard or smart phone device input s .

Interaction is how devices and participants interchange and respond with each other and with the content user experience video graphics audio images etc. displayed in an experience. Interaction can include the defined behavior of an artifact or system and the responses provided to the user and or player.

Game Mechanics are rule based system s that facilitate and encourage players to explore the properties of an experience space and other participants through the use of feedback mechanisms. Some services on the experience Platform that could support the game mechanics dimensions include leader boards polling like dislike featured players star ratings bidding rewarding role playing problem solving etc.

Ensemble is the interaction of several separate but often related parts of video song picture story line players etc. that when woven together create a more engaging and immersive experience than if experienced in isolation.

Auto Tune is the near real time correction of pitch in vocal and or instrumental performances. Auto Tune is used to disguise off key inaccuracies and mistakes and allows singer players to hear back perfectly tuned vocal tracks without the need of singing in tune.

Auto Filter is the near real time augmentation of vocal and or instrumental performances. Types of augmentation could include speeding up or slowing down the playback increasing decreasing the volume or pitch or applying a celebrity style filter to an audio track like a Lady Gaga or Heavy Metal filter .

Remix is the near real time creation of an alternative version of a song track video image etc. made from an original version or multiple original versions of songs tracks videos images etc.

Viewing 360 Panning is the near real time viewing of the 360 horizontal movement of a streaming video feed on a fixed axis. Also the ability to for the player s to control and or display alternative video or camera feeds from any point designated on this fixed axis.

Turning back to the experience platform includes a plurality of devices and a data center . The devices may include devices such as an iPhone an android a set top box a desktop computer and a netbook . At least some of the devices may be located in proximity with each other and coupled via a wireless network. In certain embodiments a participant utilizes multiple devices to enjoy a heterogeneous experience such as using the iPhone to control operation of the other devices. Multiple participants may also share devices at one location or the devices may be distributed across various locations for different participants.

Each device has an experience agent . The experience agent includes a sentio codec and an API. The sentio codec and the API enable the experience agent to communicate with and request services of the components of the data center . The experience agent facilitates direct interaction between other local devices. Because of the multi dimensional aspect of the experience the sentio codec and API are required to fully enable the desired experience. However the functionality of the experience agent is typically tailored to the needs and capabilities of the specific device on which the experience agent is instantiated. In some embodiments services implementing experience dimensions are implemented in a distributed manner across the devices and the data center . In other embodiments the devices have a very thin experience agent with little functionality beyond a minimum API and sentio codec and the bulk of the services and thus composition and direction of the experience are implemented within the data center .

Data center includes an experience server a plurality of content servers and a service platform . As will be appreciated data center can be hosted in a distributed manner in the cloud and typically the elements of the data center are coupled via a low latency network. The experience server servers and service platform can be implemented on a single computer system or more likely distributed across a variety of computer systems and at various locations.

The experience server includes at least one experience agent an experience composition engine and an operating system . In one embodiment the experience composition engine is defined and controlled by the experience provider to compose and direct the experience for one or more participants utilizing devices . Direction and composition is accomplished in part by merging various content layers and other elements into dimensions generated from a variety of sources such as the service provider the devices the content servers and or the service platform .

The content servers may include a video server an ad server and a generic content server . Any content suitable for encoding by an experience agent can be included as an experience layer. These include well know forms such as video audio graphics and text. As described in more detail earlier and below other forms of content such as gestures emotions temperature proximity etc. are contemplated for encoding and inclusion in the experience via a sentio codec and are suitable for creating dimensions and features of the experience.

The service platform includes at least one experience agent a plurality of service engines third party service engines and a monetization engine . In some embodiments each service engine or has a unique corresponding experience agent. In other embodiments a single experience can support multiple service engines or . The service engines and the monetization engines can be instantiated on one server or can be distributed across multiple servers. The service engines correspond to engines generated by the service provider and can provide services such as audio remixing gesture recognition and other services referred to in the context of dimensions above etc. Third party service engines are services included in the service platform by other parties. The service platform may have the third party service engines instantiated directly therein or within the service platform these may correspond to proxies which in turn make calls to servers under control of the third parties.

Monetization of the service platform can be accomplished in a variety of manners. For example the monetization engine may determine how and when to charge the experience provider for use of the services as well as tracking for payment to third parties for use of services from the third party service engines .

The sentio codec is a combination of hardware and or software which enables encoding of many types of data streams for operations such as transmission and storage and decoding for operations such as playback and editing. These data streams can include standard data such as video and audio. Additionally the data can include graphics sensor data gesture data and emotion data. Sentio is Latin roughly corresponding to perception or to perceive with one s senses hence the nomenclature sensio codec. 

The sentio codec can be designed to take all aspects of the experience platform into consideration when executing the transfer protocol. The parameters and aspects include available network bandwidth transmission device characteristics and receiving device characteristics. Additionally the sentio codec can be implemented to be responsive to commands from an experience composition engine or other outside entity to determine how to prioritize data for transmission. In many applications because of human response audio is the most important component of an experience data stream. However a specific application may desire to emphasize video or gesture commands.

The sentio codec provides the capability of encoding data streams corresponding with many different senses or dimensions of an experience. For example a device may include a video camera capturing video images and audio from a participant. The user image and audio data may be encoded and transmitted directly or perhaps after some intermediate processing via the experience composition engine to the service platform where one or a combination of the service engines can analyze the data stream to make a determination about an emotion of the participant. This emotion can then be encoded by the sentio codec and transmitted to the experience composition engine which in turn can incorporate this into a dimension of the experience. Similarly a participant gesture can be captured as a data stream e.g. by a motion sensor or a camera on device and then transmitted to the service platform where the gesture can be interpreted and transmitted to the experience composition engine or directly back to one or more devices for incorporation into a dimension of the experience.

Distribution and accounting infrastructure manages distribution of content from the origin content server to enable distribution of content in a timely and efficient manner across disparate geographic locations via surrogate content servers . In practice a client queries the request routing infrastructure for instructions. The request routing infrastructure in turn directs the client to connect with the best surrogate content platform and or experience platform . The experience platforms can be in direct communication with each other to enable and provide an experience to participants interacting via the client devices . Additionally live and static content from the CDN can be integrated into the participant experience. The replicated content can be provided as a layer integrated into the experience at any suitable location of the experience platform including the client device .

In some embodiments the low latency protocol to transmit the realtime participant experience comprises steps of dividing the realtime participant experience into a plurality of regions wherein the realtime participant experience includes full motion video wherein the full motion video is enclosed within one of the plurality of regions converting each portion of the realtime participant experience associated with each region into at least one of picture codec data and pass through data and smoothing a border area between the plurality of regions.

In some embodiments the experience agent is operative to receive and combine a plurality of realtime participant experiences into a single live stream.

In some embodiments the experience agent may communicate with one or more non realtime services. The experience agent may include some APIs to communicate with the non realtime services. For example in some embodiment the experience agent may include content API to receive a streaming content search information from a non realtime service. In some other embodiments the experience agent may include friends API to receive friends information from a non realtime service.

In some embodiments the experience agent may include some APIs to receive live realtime participant experiences from realtime experience engines. For example the experience agent may have a video ensemble API to receive a video ensemble realtime participant experience from a video ensemble realtime experience engine. The experience agent may include a synch DVR API to receive a synch DVR realtime participant experience from a synch DVR experience engine. The experience agent may include a synch chalktalk API to receive a chalktalk realtime participant experience from a chalktalk experience engine. The experience agent may include a virtual experience API to receive a realtime participant virtual experience from a realtime virtual experience engine. The experience agent may also include an explore engine.

The streaming content may a live or on demand streaming content received from the content distribution network. The streaming content may be received via a wireless network. The streaming content may be controlled by a digital rights management DRM . In some embodiments the experience agent may communicate with one or more non realtime services via a human readable data interchange format such as HTTP JSON.

As will be appreciated the experience agent often requires certain base services to support a wide variety of layers. These fundamental services may include the sentio codec device presence and discovery services stream routing i o capture and encode layer recombination services and protocol services. In any event the experience agent will be implemented in a manner suitable to handle the desired application.

Multiple devices may receive live realtime participant experiences using the experience agent of each own. All of the live realtime participant experiences presented by the devices may be received from a particular ensemble of a realtime experience engine via a low latency protocol.

As will be appreciated the above described content player is simply one possible example for playing or instantiating content locally. illustrates a device such as a smart TV or set top box. In this specific example the device includes a content received with the content player including hardware for receiving content e.g. video from a head end and any necessary decoders and DRM devices functionality. The received content is not limited to video that is the system could be implemented like or akin to a browser to receive and process HTML JavaScript Ajax and or a variety of documents like HTML documents pdf Word and or images animations etc. All this varying content would be decoded rendered and played interpreted viewed browsed or accessed presented as necessary all the while synchronized with other layers as the embodiment requires. In other embodiments a player may not even be necessary as all content can be delivered via layers and thus rendered if necessary by the experience agent.

In some embodiments the realtime experience is transmitted via a low latency protocol though networks. The content distribution network transmits a streaming content via a common network protocol such as HTTP to device .

In some embodiments the low latency protocol to transmit the realtime participant experience may comprise steps of dividing the realtime participant experience into a plurality of regions wherein the realtime participant experience includes full motion video wherein the full motion video is enclosed within one of the plurality of regions converting each portion of the realtime participant experience associated with each region into at least one of picture codec data and pass through data and smoothing a border area between the plurality of regions.

In some embodiments the plurality of non realtime services may include a content service operative to receive a streaming content search result from a content distribution network . The plurality of non realtime services may include an account service to maintain account information including friends information and devices information . The plurality of non realtime services may include a presence service operative to generate and transmit a presence notification. The plurality of non realtime services may include a group formation service operative to form a group based on the account information from the account service .

In some embodiments the plurality of realtime experience engines may include a video ensemble engine operative to transmit a video ensemble realtime participant experience. The plurality of realtime experience engines may include a synch DVR engine operative to transmit a synch DVR realtime participant experience. The plurality of realtime experience engines may include a synch chalktalk engine operative to transmit a synch chalktalk realtime participant experience. The plurality of realtime experience engines may include a virtual experience engine operative to transmit a realtime participant virtual experience.

As shown in in some embodiments at least one of the realtime experience engines is operative to generate an ensemble of realtime participant experiences and transmit each realtime participant experience of the ensemble to an experience agent. In some embodiment the plurality of realtime experience engines comprises an ensemble management engine operative to form an ensemble for a plurality of realtime experiences. In some embodiments the realtime experience from the same ensemble is transmitted via a low latency protocol though networks. The content distribution network transmits a streaming content via networks to a plurality of devices .

In some embodiments a system for composing and directing multi dimensional realtime participant experiences is implemented within a content distribution network CDN . The system includes a CDN infrastructure including an origin content server and a plurality of surrogate content servers. The CDN infrastructure is operable to distribute content across various geographic locations. The system also includes a plurality of realtime experience engines a plurality of non realtime services and a plurality of devices. Each device includes a content player presenting a streaming content received from the content distribution network. The device further includes an experience agent presenting one or more live realtime participant experiences transmitted from one or more realtime experience engines via a low latency protocol. Each of the realtime experience engines is operative to transmit a realtime participant experience to at least one of the experience agents via a low latency protocol and communicate with one or more non realtime services. Each of the non realtime services is operative to communicate with at least one of the experience agents and communicate with one or more realtime experience engines.

Stepping back and considering the integration of an experience platform into a CDN framework those skilled in the art will readily recognize that there are a variety of ways to accomplish such an integration. With respect to e.g. a case where there CDN sends content e.g. video images HTML graphics audio pdf etc. directly to individual devices and experience agents on the devices enable all other layers either rendering locally in communication with an experience platform s real time and or non real time services or received layers from a real time experience platform.

Alternatively one or more content streams flow from a CDN to an instance of an experience platform integrating into a processing pipeline consisting of one or more services devices of the experience platform and the experience platform sends the final processed stream as a layer to the person s device. One possible embodiment is shown in a system of which will be noted as an extension of . In a web CDN provides a content stream over to a layer generation instance located at a data center which in turn generates a layer provided to experience platform .

As will be appreciated certain embodiments may provide multiple CDN arising content streams fed into the experience platform processing pipeline. Additionally CDN originating content can be fed into the pipeline and different CDN originating content can be delivered directly to end devices i.e. a combination of both described instances. 

In some embodiments the device may include a user interface operative to receive an input from a user of the device. The experience agent may be operative to communicate with at least one of the non realtime services. In some embodiments the low latency protocol to transmit the realtime participant experience comprises steps of dividing the realtime participant experience into a plurality of regions wherein the realtime participant experience includes full motion video wherein the full motion video is enclosed within one of the plurality of regions converting each portion of the realtime participant experience associated with each region into at least one of picture codec data and pass through data and smoothing a border area between the plurality of regions.

In some embodiments a system for composing and directing multi dimensional realtime participant experiences is implemented within a content distribution network CDN . The system is facilitated via a low latency transmission protocol and sentio codecs for encoding and decoding multi dimensional data streams. the system provided by a service provider for use by an experience provider the system comprising a plurality of devices an experience server a CDN infrastructure a content server and a service platform. Each device includes a specific experience agent. Each specific experience agent includes a specific API and a specific sentio codec. The experience server is in communication with the plurality of devices. The experience server includes a first experience agent. The first experience agent includes a first API and a first sentio codec. The experience server also includes the experience composition engine. The CDN infrastructure includes an origin content server and a plurality of surrogate content servers. The CDN infrastructure is operable to distribute content to participants across various geographic locations. The content server is in communication with the experience server and is operable to provide a first content layer to the experience composition engine. The service platform is in communication with and is operable to provide services to the plurality of devices and the experience server. The service platform includes a plurality of service engines and a second experience agent including a second API and a second sentio codec. The service of at least one service engine is exposed via the second API. The experience composition engine is operable to receive layers from the content server and the plurality of devices request services from the service platform via the first experience agent and compose and direct a realtime participant experience using the layers and services performed by the service platform.

In some embodiments the low latency transmission protocol comprises steps of dividing the realtime participant experience into a plurality of regions wherein the realtime participant experience includes full motion video wherein the full motion video is enclosed within one of the plurality of regions converting each portion of the realtime participant experience associated with each region into at least one of picture codec data and pass through data and smoothing a border area between the plurality of regions.

In addition to the above mentioned examples various other modifications and alterations of the invention may be made without departing from the invention. Accordingly the above disclosure is not to be considered as limiting and the appended claims are to be interpreted as encompassing the true spirit and the entire scope of the invention.

