---

title: Smart phone scale that uses the built-in barometric pressure sensor or orientation sensors to calculate weight
abstract: A weighing assembly () includes a portable computing device (“PCC”) () such as a smart phone, pad computer, laptop computer, or the like. The weighing assembly utilizes one or more features of the portable computing device in order to weigh an item, under control of a scale application program or “app” executable in the portable computing device. Some embodiments may utilize an internal barometric pressure sensor of the PCC. Other embodiments may utilize orientation or position sensors of the PCC for weighing an item. Other embodiments may utilize a compressible foot element (), all for weighing an item. Preferably, a user interface () of the PCC, such as a touch screen, may be used to interact with the scale application program for calibration and other functions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09091585&OS=09091585&RS=09091585
owner: RAF Technology, Inc.
number: 09091585
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130412
---
This application is a non provisional of and claims priority to U.S. provisional application No. 61 762 522 filed Feb. 8 2013 which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 2013 RAF Technology Inc. A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. 37 CFR 1.71 d .

Scales date back to biblical times. The need remains for improved scales that are small portable and accurate for weighing relatively small items such as mail pieces to determine correct postage.

The following is a summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not intended to identify key critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The current invention proposes multiple different embodiments for implementing a small portable scale. The embodiments have in common leveraging the screen display and other electronics typically provided in a portable computing device such as a smart phone pad computer laptop computer iPhone iPad or the like.

Additional aspects and advantages of this invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments which proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.

In an example transparent window may be made of a variety of materials known to those of skill in the art configured to communicate a signal and or pressure to a touch screen sensor of mobile device such as for example a capacitative and or resistive material or assembly. In another example a controller including Bluetooth and or other wireless method of communication may be used to communicate commands to mobile device while enclosed in chamber .

In an alternative embodiment a rigid plastic box may be used with a plastic bag enclosed therein provide a sealing agent inside of the rigid container. The rigid container may be rectangular or cylindrical with a floating first half and a second half that rests on a fixed surface. These halves can have a seal between them or simply fit snugly with a sealed plastic bag within. The mobile device may be placed in the bag and then the bag in the container. Changes in barometric pressure responsive to the weight of an item being weighed may be used to estimate the weight after calibration.

In an example mobile device may store a software application for estimating a weight of an object disposed on surface based on a change in barometric pressure within chamber . Mobile device may include a built in barometric pressure sensor accessible to the weighing application via an application programming interface API that may be associated with the weighing application. Again using an API to access the barometer function a software application app can be provided for weighing operations. The new scale can be calibrated using objects having known weights. The scale can be used for a variety of things. In one scenario it can be used at a pick up or collection point for processing mail or parcel items in the field prior to speed accurate delivery. For example a single preferably ruggedized portable device can implement weighing as explained above as well as mobile OCR address recognition and correction and label printing. Then the subject parcel is good to go while minimizing subsequent handling for delivery and the delivery address is likely to be valid. In general the disclosed scale can be part of an effective decentralized parcel handling process.

Referring again to mobile device may be configured to display a graphical user interface GUI including one or more soft buttons and a display area for showing a calculated weight. A process for weighing an item may begin by calibrating the weighing application. A user may select a calibrate soft button to activate the weighing application to begin a calibration routine which may include weighing items of known weight using weighing assembly . Other calibration methods may be used and claimed subject matter is not limited in this regard.

A user may select an accept soft button to accept and or store a particular weight tare and or calibration operation. A user may select a reset soft button to reset the weighing application perhaps after calibrating and or weighing an item. The weighing application may be configured to tare an item to be weighed by resetting a weight to zero when a user selects a tare soft button .

In an example mobile device may be disposed in chamber . After calibration of the weighing application an item may be weighed by placing it on surface of weighing assembly . A change in barometric pressure within chamber responsive to a displacement of piston within cylinder due to a downward force exerted on surface by the item may be measured by the weighing application and correlated to a weight of the item.

In an example cylindrical foot assembly may comprise a cylinder and a foot configured to extend into a chamber of cylinder similar to a piston action. A downward force exerted by an item placed in item receptacle may cause foot to extended into cylinder . In an example foot may be a pneumatic piston a spring loaded piston and or the like.

In an example receptacle may include slot which may be configured to hold an item to be weighed such as a letter envelope. In another embodiment receptacle may have any shape configured to hold contain balance and or otherwise support an item to be weighed and claimed subject matter is not limited in this regard.

In an example if an item is placed in slot to be weighed foot may depress spring and may extend into chamber of cylinder a distance proportional to the weight of the item. Displacement of foot within chamber may displace gases within chamber . Displaced gasses may be communicated to chamber via channel changing the pressure of the gases within chamber . As discussed above a pressure change within chamber may be measured using a barometer either incorporated into weighing assembly and or a mobile communication device . A change in barometric pressure may be correlated to the weight of an item supported in slot by a weighing application executable on mobile device .

The item to be weighed may be placed on the top side of weighing assembly . The item may be for example an envelope or mail item. Alternatively the item may be placed in receptacle . Receptacle may be integrally formed with mobile device as in or may be removable as in . For example receptacle may comprise a plug that may fit in port . An alternative receptacle for example may have a cup shape for holding granular or otherwise loose materials for weighing for example spices herbs chemicals or any other substance. The material to be weighed may be a liquid gelatinous solid or any other form. Plug may fit in port as well. In an example receptacle may comprise an extended or extendable arm coupled between plug and receptacle older to increase the moment arm of receptacle and thereby to increase sensitivity of the weighing application.

The load cell may be coupled to mobile device electronics by a cable or integral wiring not shown . In some embodiments mobile device may comprise a wireless receiver . Load cell may be coupled to a wireless transmitter . Load cell may communicate with mobile device wirelessly for example by short range wireless technology such as Blue Tooth . Coupling to the mobile device electronics may be arranged to enable a processor in the mobile device to receive data indicative of a force sensed and reported by the load cell. The load cell data may be used for zeroing tare calibration and or weighing operations. Preferably a processor in the mobile device may access and utilize the load cell data under control of a weighing application program. The application program may be stored in machine readable memory in mobile device .

A weighing application stored on mobile device may access orientation data generated by orientation sensor. The weighing application may estimate a weight of an item placed on a top surface of mobile device or in receptacle based on a change in orientation of mobile device resulting from a downward force applied on mobile device by the item. The weighing application may be calibrated by first identifying an original orientation and then by identifying an orientation of mobile device responsive to weighing various items of known weight. A tare mode may zero out the weighing application at a starting orientation which may be different from the initial orientation.

In an example the compressible material may be rubber and or silicone or a suitable polymeric material. It should be designed to recover to its uncompressed dimensions when the weighing item is removed in a repeatable fashion. In another example foot may comprise a pneumatic piston and cylinder assembly or a spring loaded piston and cylinder assembly or the like as in . In an example the item may be placed in receptacle . Receptacle may be integrally formed with mobile device as in or may be removable as in . An alternative receptacle may have a cup shape see .

One of skill in the art will recognize that the concepts taught herein can be tailored to a particular application in many other ways. In particular those skilled in the art will recognize that the illustrated examples are but one of many alternative implementations that will become apparent upon reading this disclosure. It will be obvious to those having skill in the art that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

