---

title: Seismic orthogonal decomposition attribute
abstract: A method can include providing seismic data for a subsurface region that includes a reflector; decomposing at least a portion of the seismic data using principal component analysis (PCA) to generate at least one principal component; and outputting output data based at least in part on the at least one principal component. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09645268&OS=09645268&RS=09645268
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 09645268
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130611
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 663 640 filed 25 Jun. 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Reflection seismology finds use in geophysics for example to estimate properties of subsurface formations. As an example reflection seismology may provide seismic data representing waves of elastic energy e.g. as transmitted by P waves and S waves in a frequency range of approximately 1 Hz to approximately 100 Hz . Seismic data may be processed and interpreted for example to understand better composition fluid content extent and geometry of subsurface rocks. Various techniques described herein pertain to processing of data such as for example seismic data.

A method can include providing seismic data for a subsurface region decomposing at least a portion of the seismic data using principal component analysis PCA to generate at least one principal component and outputting output data based at least in part on the at least one principal component. A system can include one or more processors for processing information memory operatively coupled to the one or more processors a provision module for providing seismic data for a subsurface region a decomposition module for decomposing at least a portion of the seismic data using principal component analysis PCA to generate at least one principal component and an output module for outputting output data based at least in part on the at least one principal component. One or more computer readable storage media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to access seismic data for a subsurface region decompose at least a portion of the seismic data using principal component analysis PCA to generate at least one principal component and output output data based at least in part on the at least one principal component. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

In various example embodiments one or more orthogonal decomposition analyses may be applied to data such as seismic data data derived from seismic data etc. As an example a method may include seismic surface e.g. reflected horizon orthogonal decomposition to detect features such as fractures other latent structures etc. As an example seismic cube latent structure analyses may be implemented in a framework as a module set of modules etc. for example to detect faults fractures and latent reflections. Where seismic data may include noise at a level to be considered noisy such analyses may particularly useful. As an example one or more latent structure analyses may be performed to assist with detection of one or more features of interest in oil and gas exploration and production E P . For example results from an analysis may assist with well placement geologic modeling sill analyses detection of fractured zones or fracture corridors and in E P for unconventional resources and carbonate fields e.g. consider shale fields .

Fracture corridors or subtle faults may give rise to seismic signals that may be exhibited in acquired seismic data as small amplitude self incoherent features for example in cross sections and as lineaments on slices or seismic surfaces. Detection of such features may include processing seismic signals seismic data or both to generate one or more edge detection attributes for example where an attribute may be considered a measurable property of seismic data e.g. consider amplitude dip frequency phase polarity etc. . For example an attribute may be a value or a set of values derived from seismic signals seismic data etc. and defined with respect to a coordinate system e.g. one dimensional two dimensional three dimensional four dimensional or of an even higher dimension . As an example a dimension may be a spatial dimension a time dimension a frequency dimension etc. As an example consider providing seismic data as a cube where each voxel volume element in the cube has a value. In such an example an edge detection algorithm may process the values in a cube to generate new values where the new values are referred to collectively as an edge detection attribute e.g. an attribute cube .

As an example a seismic cube e.g. a seismic volume or seismic data for a volume may be processed to generate an attribute cube e.g. an attribute volume or attribute values for a volume . As another example a seismic surface may be processed to generate an attribute surface. As yet another example a seismic line may be processed to generate an attribute line. As an example a seismic point may be processed to generate an attribute point.

Attributes may be derived measured etc. for example at one instant in time for multiple instances in time over a time window etc. and for example may be measured on a single trace on a set of traces on a surface interpreted from seismic data etc. Attribute analysis may include assessment of various parameters for example as to a reservoir consider a hydrocarbon indicator derived from an amplitude variation with offset AVO analysis.

As to latent structure detection in a seismic cube on a seismic reflection surface etc. various techniques have been applied such as those including local angle and azimuth angle minimum maximum and Gaussian curvature coherence 3D curvatures and spectral decomposition. The aforementioned techniques when applied to fracture and fault detection tend to be sensitive to noise in seismic data acquisition footprint in seismic data or both noise and acquisition footprint in seismic data. While filtering or smoothing may be applied in an effort to eliminate noise and acquisition footprints in seismic data and to obtain more useful information about faults and fractures such filtering or smoothing may suppress noise and acquisition footprints that include useful information about latent structures. In other words filtering smoothing etc. of seismic data may remove or diminish small seismic data features e.g. small in time space or both time and space that may be associated with faults fractures etc. e.g. small seismic data features associated with seismic energy interacting with faults fractures etc. .

As to noise it may arise from unwanted seismic energy such as shot generation ground roll surface waves multiples effects of weather random occurrences in the Earth seismology equipment etc. Noise may exist as coherent noise incoherent noise or other type of noise. As an example coherent noise may appear as undesirable seismic energy artifacts with somewhat consistent phase from seismic trace to seismic trace e.g. consider ground roll and multiples . As an example incoherent noise including random noise may appear as disturbances in seismic data that lack coherence e.g. lack a phase relationship between adjacent traces .

As to acquisition footprint a footprint may refer to a region for which seismic data are acquired while an acquisition footprint may refer to artifacts that result from equipment techniques etc. used to acquire the seismic data. For example for a region at sea a footprint may be covered by an array of streamers towed by a vessel or vessels. In such an example the spacing between streamers may be evidenced in seismic data as an acquisition footprint. For example an acquisition footprint may appear as variations in properties of seismic data e.g. encountered during processing that are related to acquisition geometry and that may distort amplitude and phase of reflections.

As an example consider seismic data where information about a structure e.g. a fault a fracture etc. exists within the data as high frequency features in cross sections and as lineaments in slices or in seismic surfaces which may lack coherence e.g. to varying degree depending on one or more factors . As noise may include high frequency characteristics and as information for acquisition footprint may exist as high frequency artifacts within seismic data approaches that aim to reduce the impact of noise and acquisition footprint within seismic data may also strip out at least a portion of the high frequency features within the seismic data that are associated with a latent structure or latent structures.

As an example a method can include detecting latent structure within seismic reflecting horizons via surface orthogonal decomposition for example using an algorithm based at least in part on principal component analysis PCA which may be referred to as for example Karhunen Loeve decomposition KLD or proper orthogonal decomposition POD . Such an approach may decompose information for example into a set of information where each member in the set is orthogonal to other members of the set. Using an image analogy an image may be decomposed into a set of snapshots where each snapshot represents a collection of N measurements times a certain state variable. As an example for surface analysis a snapshot may be defined for every node and include values for nodes inside some radius around this node for example where the radius is larger than the correlation radius of the autocorrelation function corresponding to the surface.

As an example a method can include applying 3D orthogonal decomposition to a seismic cube flattened along a target layer to detect a fracture a subtle fault another latent feature etc. As demonstrated in various trial examples such an approach may be tolerant to noise. In particular such an approach may be applied to seismic data that includes noise at a level high enough to classify the seismic data or at least portions of it as being noisy e.g. in terms of signal to noise ratio in terms of artifacts in terms of randomness of energy in terms of frequency etc. .

As an example an orthogonal decomposition may be performed using principal component analysis PCA . For example an orthogonal decomposition may be performed based on PCA to compute eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a 3D autocorrelation function of seismic data e.g. a seismic cube which may be an original seismic cube . In such an example when applied to a seismic cube each orthogonal component derived by the decomposition may also a cube e.g. an orthogonal component attribute . As an example where a seismic cube is decomposed into several orthogonal component cubes the values within the orthogonal component cubes may sum to yield values approximately equal to the values of the seismic cube. For example if a seismic cube includes 27 voxels 3 3 3 and a value in each of the 27 voxels decomposition may generate about five cubes e.g. attribute cubes that each include 27 voxels and a value in each of the 27 voxels. When the values of center voxels the five cubes are summed the resulting value may be approximately equal to the value of the center voxel of the seismic cube that was subjected to decomposition.

As to orthogonality in the context of orthogonal decomposition it may indicate that the correlation coefficient between any two components derived from orthogonal decomposition of a seismic cube will be approximately zero. As an example where the information in a seismic cube includes noise e.g. consider random noise and acquisition footprints that are lacking in their correlation with fractures or faults reflections or other latent features an orthogonal decomposition analysis may be applied to the seismic cube to separate the information into separate orthogonal components e.g. decompose the information into data cubes where the data in any cube is lacking in its correlation with data in any other cube .

As an example a method may include accessing or providing wellbore information for example to assist with selection of one or more orthogonal components for use in fracture detection. As an example fault and fracture auto tracking technology such as ant tracking may be applied to one or more selected orthogonal cubes for example to improve or enhance information e.g. consider ant tracking to generate a fracture image . As an example detecting may include classifying for example where classification information e.g. model information results from previously analyzed data etc. may assist in detecting one or more features that may belong to a class of features e.g. a type of feature .

Below an example of a system is described followed by various technologies including examples of techniques which may for example include applying PCA to data to decompose information within the data into one or more components.

In the example of the management components include a seismic data component an additional information component e.g. well logging data a processing component a simulation component an attribute component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on entities . Entities may include earth entities or geological objects such as wells surfaces reservoirs etc. In the system the entities can include virtual representations of actual physical entities that are reconstructed for purposes of simulation. The entities may include entities based on data acquired via sensing observation etc. e.g. the seismic data and other information . An entity may be characterized by one or more properties e.g. a geometrical pillar grid entity of an earth model may be characterized by a porosity property . Such properties may represent one or more measurements e.g. acquired data calculations etc.

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on a software framework such as an object based framework. In such a framework entities may include entities based on pre defined classes to facilitate modeling and simulation. A commercially available example of an object based framework is the MICROSOFT .NET framework Redmond Wash. which provides a set of extensible object classes. In the .NET framework an object class encapsulates a module of reusable code and associated data structures. Object classes can be used to instantiate object instances for use in by a program script etc. For example borehole classes may define objects for representing boreholes based on well data.

In the example of the simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes specified by the attribute component which may include a library of attributes. Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component e.g. consider the processing component . As an example the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . In an example embodiment the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results. As an example output from the simulation component may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component .

As an example the simulation component may include one or more features of a simulator such as the ECLIPSE reservoir simulator Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. the INTERSECT reservoir simulator Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. etc. As an example a reservoir or reservoirs may be simulated with respect to one or more enhanced recovery techniques e.g. consider a thermal process such as SAGD etc. .

In an example embodiment the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes. Such a framework may be considered an application and may be considered a data driven application e.g. where data is input for purposes of simulating a geologic environment .

In an example embodiment various aspects of the management components may include add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. allows for integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. In an example embodiment various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. .

The model simulation layer may provide domain objects act as a data source provide for rendering and provide for various user interfaces . Rendering may provide a graphical environment in which applications can display their data while the user interfaces may provide a common look and feel for application user interface components.

In the example of the domain objects can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects. Entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. For example an entity object may represent a well where a property object provides log information as well as version information and display information e.g. to display the well as part of a model .

In the example of data may be stored in one or more data sources or data stores generally physical data storage devices which may be at the same or different physical sites and accessible via one or more networks. The model simulation layer may be configured to model projects. As such a particular project may be stored where stored project information may include inputs models results and cases. Thus upon completion of a modeling session a user may store a project. At a later time the project can be accessed and restored using the model simulation layer which can recreate instances of the relevant domain objects.

In the example of the geologic environment may include layers e.g. stratification that include a reservoir and that may be intersected by a fault . As an example the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment which may be equipment to acquire information to assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc. As an example one or more satellites may be provided for purposes of communications data acquisition etc. For example shows a satellite in communication with the network that may be configured for communications noting that the satellite may additionally or alternatively include circuitry for imagery e.g. spatial spectral temporal radiometric etc. .

As mentioned the system may be used to perform one or more workflows. A workflow may be a process that includes a number of worksteps. A workstep may operate on data for example to create new data to update existing data etc. As an example a may operate on one or more inputs and create one or more results for example based on one or more algorithms. As an example a system may include a workflow editor for creation editing executing etc. of a workflow. In such an example the workflow editor may provide for selection of one or more pre defined worksteps one or more customized worksteps etc. As an example a workflow may be a workflow implementable in the PETREL software for example that operates on seismic data seismic attribute s etc. As an example a workflow may be a process implementable in the OCEAN framework. As an example a workflow may include one or more worksteps that access a module such as a plug in e.g. external executable code etc. .

As shown the formation includes a horizontal surface and various subsurface layers. As an example a borehole may be vertical. As another example a borehole may be deviated. In the example of the borehole may be considered a vertical borehole for example where the z axis extends downwardly normal to the horizontal surface of the formation .

As to the convention for dip as shown the three dimensional orientation of a plane can be defined by its dip and strike. Dip is the angle of slope of a plane from a horizontal plane e.g. an imaginary plane measured in a vertical plane in a specific direction. Dip may be defined by magnitude e.g. also known as angle or amount and azimuth e.g. also known as direction . As shown in the convention of various angles indicate angle of slope downwards for example from an imaginary horizontal plane e.g. flat upper surface whereas azimuth refers to the direction towards which a dipping plane slopes e.g. which may be given with respect to degrees compass directions etc. . Another feature shown in the convention of is strike which is the orientation of the line created by the intersection of a dipping plane and a horizontal plane e.g. consider the flat upper surface as being an imaginary horizontal plane .

Some additional terms related to dip and strike may apply to an analysis for example depending on circumstances orientation of collected data etc. One term is true dip see e.g. Dipin the convention of . True dip is the dip of a plane measured directly perpendicular to strike see e.g. line directed northwardly and labeled strike and angle and also the maximum possible value of dip magnitude. Another term is apparent dip see e.g. Dipin the convention of . Apparent dip may be the dip of a plane as measured in any other direction except in the direction of true dip see e.g. as Dipfor angle however it is possible that the apparent dip is equal to the true dip see e.g. as Dip Dipfor angle with respect to the strike . In other words where the term apparent dip is used e.g. in a method analysis algorithm etc. for a particular dipping plane a value for apparent dip may be equivalent to the true dip of that particular dipping plane.

As shown in the convention of the dip of a plane as seen in a cross section exactly perpendicular to the strike is true dip see e.g. the surface with as Dip Dipfor angle with respect to the strike . As indicated dip observed in a cross section in any other direction is apparent dip see e.g. surfaces labeled Dip . Further as shown in the convention of apparent dip may be approximately 0 degrees e.g. parallel to a horizontal surface where an edge of a cutting plane runs along a strike direction .

In terms of observing dip in wellbores true dip is observed in wells drilled vertically. In wells drilled in any other orientation or deviation the dips observed are apparent dips e.g. which are referred to by some as relative dips . In order to determine true dip values for planes observed in such boreholes as an example a vector computation e.g. based on the borehole deviation may be applied to one or more apparent dip values.

As mentioned another term that finds use in sedimentological interpretations from borehole images is relative dip e.g. Dip . A value of true dip measured from borehole images in rocks deposited in very calm environments may be subtracted e.g. using vector subtraction from dips in a sand body. In such an example the resulting dips are called relative dips and may find use in interpreting sand body orientation.

A convention such as the convention may be used with respect to an analysis an interpretation an attribute etc. see e.g. various blocks of the system of . As an example various types of features may be described in part by dip e.g. sedimentary bedding faults and fractures cuestas igneous dikes and sills metamorphic foliation etc. .

Seismic interpretation may aim to identify and classify one or more subsurface boundaries based at least in part on one or more dip parameters e.g. angle or magnitude azimuth etc. . As an example various types of features e.g. sedimentary bedding faults and fractures cuestas igneous dikes and sills metamorphic foliation etc. may be described at least in part by angle at least in part by azimuth etc.

As shown in the diagram of a geobody may be present in a geologic environment. For example the geobody may be a salt dome. A salt dome may be a mushroom shaped or plug shaped diapir made of salt and may have an overlying cap rock e.g. or caprock . Salt domes can form as a consequence of the relative buoyancy of salt when buried beneath other types of sediment. Hydrocarbons may be found at or near a salt dome due to formation of traps due to salt movement in association evaporite mineral sealing. Buoyancy differentials can cause salt to begin to flow vertically e.g. as a salt pillow which may cause faulting. In the diagram the geobody is met by layers which may each be defined by a dip angle .

As an example seismic data may be acquired for a region in the form of traces. In the example of the diagram shows acquisition equipment emitting energy from a source e.g. a transmitter and receiving reflected energy via one or more sensors e.g. receivers strung along an inline direction. As the region includes layers and the geobody energy emitted by a transmitter of the acquisition equipment can reflect off the layers and the geobody . Evidence of such reflections may be found in the acquired traces. As to the portion of a trace energy received may be discretized by an analog to digital converter that operates at a sampling rate. For example the acquisition equipment may convert energy signals sensed by sensor Q to digital samples at a rate of one sample per approximately 4 ms. Given a speed of sound in a medium or media a sample rate may be converted to an approximate distance. For example the speed of sound in rock may be of the order of around 5 km per second. Thus a sample time spacing of approximately 4 ms would correspond to a sample depth spacing of about 10 meters e.g. assuming a path length from source to boundary and boundary to sensor . As an example a trace may be about 4 seconds in duration thus for a sampling rate of one sample at about 4 ms intervals such a trace would include about 1000 samples where latter acquired samples correspond to deeper reflection boundaries. If the 4 second trace duration of the foregoing example is divided by two e.g. to account for reflection for a vertically aligned source and sensor the deepest boundary depth may be estimated to be about 10 km e.g. assuming a speed of sound of about 5 km per second .

In the example of the system includes one or more information storage devices one or more computers one or more networks and one or more modules . As to the one or more computers each computer may include one or more processors e.g. or processing cores and memory for storing instructions e.g. modules for example executable by at least one of the one or more processors. As an example a computer may include one or more network interfaces e.g. wired or wireless one or more graphics cards a display interface e.g. wired or wireless etc.

In the example of the one or more memory storage devices may store seismic data for a geologic environment that spans kilometers in length and width and for example around 10 km in depth. Seismic data may be acquired with reference to a surface grid e.g. defined with respect to inline and crossline directions . For example given grid blocks of about 40 meters by about 40 meters a 40 km by 40 km field may include about one million traces. Such traces may be considered 3D seismic data where time approximates depth. As an example a computer may include a network interface for accessing seismic data stored in one or more of the storage devices via a network. In turn the computer may process the accessed seismic data via instructions which may be in the form of one or more modules.

As an example one or more attribute modules may be provided for processing seismic data. As an example attributes may include geometrical attributes e.g. dip angle azimuth continuity seismic trace etc. . Such attributes may be part of a structural attributes library see e.g. the attribute component of . Structural attributes may assist with edge detection local orientation and dip of seismic reflectors continuity of seismic events e.g. parallel to estimated bedding orientation etc. As an example an edge may be defined as a discontinuity in horizontal amplitude continuity within seismic data and correspond to a fault a fracture etc. Geometrical attributes may be spatial attributes and rely on multiple traces.

As mentioned as an example seismic data for a region may include one million traces where each trace includes one thousand samples for a total of one billion samples. Resources involved in processing such seismic data in a timely manner may be relatively considerable by today s standards. As an example a dip scan approach may be applied to seismic data which involves processing seismic data with respect to discrete planes e.g. a volume bounded by discrete planes . Depending on the size of the seismic data such an approach may involve considerable resources for timely processing. Such an approach may look at local coherence between traces and their amplitudes and therefore may be classified in the category of apparent dip. 

As an example a 2D search based estimate of coherence may be performed for a range of discrete dip angles. Such an approach for dip analysis may estimate coherence using semblance variance principal component analysis PCA or another statistical measure along a discrete number of candidate dips and arrive at an instantaneous dip based on a coherence peak. As an example a 3D search based estimate of coherence which may be analogous to a 2D approach may use an inline vector and a crossline vector for time dip e.g. along coherent peaks in inline and crossline directions . As an example dip with maximum coherence may be stored as a dip angle magnitude and dip direction azimuth. As an example an approach may involve human interaction in a semi automated manner that includes interpretation of horizons in a subterranean formation via user identification and selection of horizon features.

As an example a method can include orthogonal decomposition of a stratigraphically flattened 3D seismic cube. Such a method may decompose the cube into components that may be for example sorted according to their contribution to amplitude values of the cube. As an example applying PCA to a seismic cube may generate eigenvalues for associated eigenvectors e.g. orthogonal vectors where the eigenvalues may be ordered from largest to smallest and referred to as individual components with respect to their order e.g. first component second component etc. which may relate to their contribution to amplitude values of the seismic cube.

As an example a method may include assigning phenomena to different noncorrelated components e.g. different seismic cubes . For example such a method may include assigning to different noncorrelated cubes noise phenomena acquisition footprint phenomena one or more types of structural phenomena etc. As an example decomposition may separate out information including high frequency information without losing information as would be lost by filtering or smoothing to diminish high frequency noise. For example filtering or smoothing to diminish high frequency noise may also diminish high frequency information. As an example a method may include separating phenomena represented in seismic data on the basis of its shape. Such a method may separate the phenomena into components which when summed may approximately reproduce the seismic data e.g. present a composite of various shapes noise etc. in the data .

As an example a method may include classifying components derived via orthogonal decomposition. Such a method may include calibration for example based in part on information about structures e.g. fractures faults etc. from one or more sources e.g. well logs seismic data etc. . As an example seismic data may include microseismic data for example acquired via microseismology. Microseismology may be applied for monitoring assessing etc. fractures generated via an artificial process such as hydraulic fracturing.

As an example one or more components e.g. principal components from a PCA analysis may be processed. For example a process that generates an ant tracking attribute may be applied to a component e.g. or a combination of several components to improve an image as to visibility of one or more contiguous structures. As an example ant tracking data may be used for generating a model of a structure e.g. as a stand alone model or as part of a larger model that includes at least a portion of the structure .

As an example a method may apply an orthogonal component analysis along stratigraphic layers e.g. along seismic horizons . As an example a method may apply an orthogonal component analysis along seismic slices for example to generate components that may illustrate edge effects such as edge effects that correspond to slice transitioning from one geological layer to another adjacent geological layer.

As an example imagery such as surface imagery e.g. satellite geological geophysical etc. may be processed using orthogonal decomposition. As an example a method may analyze imagery using orthogonal decomposition to generate one or more components that may illustrate latent structure. As an example components generated may form a noncorrelated set of images. As an example a framework may access one or more components for surface imagery and may access one or more components for sub surface seismic data and generate a three dimensional representation e.g. for visualization of surface structure and sub surface structure which may be joined via an interpolation process or other process. For example a latent structure may be captured by seismology and by satellite imagery and a model constructed based on an orthogonal decomposition analysis of seismic data and surface imagery e.g. using components therefrom .

As an example an orthogonal decomposition analysis may generate components where such components may be classified according to phenomena such as geological process phenomena. For example one component may illustrate channels while another component may illustrate fractures for example based on such features being formed in part by at least one differing type of geological process. As an example a method may include separating results of different geological processes that create orthogonal uncorrelated features in a seismic cube. As an example a number of orthogonal decompositions may be performed on data where each of the orthogonal decompositions may include a different parameter value for example for a lag parameter or other parameter. Such an approach may optionally assist with tuning one or more orthogonal decomposition parameters for example with respect to latent features to be highlighted detected etc.

As an example a method may include selecting a target layer from a plurality of layers. In such an example where the selected layer is thin relative to seismic resolution e.g. one or less of seismic cycles the method may include performing 2D seismic surface analyses for the top or bottom of the layer.

As an example a method may include performing an orthogonal decomposition analysis on data for detection of fracture corridors for example for unconventional resource exploration and for carbonate exploration under strong noise conditions.

As an example a method can use 3D PCA to probe for hidden structure of a seismic cube by expanding noise and information in the seismic cube into orthogonal components for example based on the computation of eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a three dimensional autocorrelation function of the seismic cube.

As an example a method may decompose seismic data into orthogonal components e.g. principal components based at least in part on an autocorrelation function. For example where the seismic data are provided as a volume e.g. a seismic volume or seismic cube a three dimensional autocorrelation function may be applied locally e.g. using a moving window defined by one or more parameters as part of a process to decompose the seismic data into orthogonal components. In such an example each orthogonal component may be a cube e.g. spatially extensive with the seismic cube provided and a sum of values of the components e.g. at least several of the higher order components may be approximately equal to values of the seismic cube provided.

As mentioned orthogonality as to decomposed components means that the correlation coefficient between any two of the components will be about zero. As an example where noise has little to no correlation with a fault a reflection or other latent feature such noise may stand out as a separate principal component e.g. be separated out via application of orthogonal decomposition . As an example one or more individual principal components may stand out for one or more footprints. As mentioned a method may include applying orthogonal decomposition to separate results of different geological process for example which may be illustrated in several components as corresponding to orthogonal un correlated features.

As shown in the example of the provision block may provide seismic data as a seismic cube the decomposition block may decompose the seismic data into component cubes and e.g. from one to N where N may be an integer of at least one and the output block may output information based at least in part on one of the component cubes and .

As an example the method may include one or more of a pre process block for pre processing at least a portion of the provided data e.g. or accessed data and a post process block for post processing at least a portion of one or more components. The pre process block may be implemented for example depending on the characteristics of the data provided or accessed. For example where the provision block provides raw seismic data at least a portion of that data may be processed. As an example a pre process performed by the pre process block may include autocorrelation to generate autocorrelation data e.g. an autocorrelation cube or autocorrelation volume . As an example the provision block may provide data as autocorrelation data. In the example of the post process block may be implemented for example depending on a goal of a workflow. For example where latent structure such as fractures are to be examined e.g. uncovered from data a post process performed by the post process block may include ant tracking to generate ant tracking data e.g. an ant tracking cube or ant tracking volume . While ant tracking is mentioned as an example one or more other techniques may be applied to at least a portion of a component e.g. or portions of components etc. .

As an example ant tracking may be performed as part of a workflow which may include for example performing orthogonal decomposition e.g. PCA on data and then generating ant track data from which for example features may be extracted e.g. patches . In turn such features may be subject to one or more of validation editing or other process. Ant tracking may generate an ant tracking attribute an ant tracking surface an ant tracking volume e.g. or cube etc.

Ant tracking may include using an algorithm that by analogy involves ants finding the shortest path between their nest and their food source e.g. by communicating using pheromones to attract other ants . In such an example the shortest path becomes marked with more pheromones than longer paths such that subsequent ants are more likely to choose the shortest path and so on.

Where features may be latent e.g. latent structure for example due to noise acquisition footprint etc. performing PCA prior to ant tracking may enhance the ability to track the latent features particularly where the features have some amount of continuity e.g. contiguous within a surface a volume etc. . For example fractures generated by a fracturing process e.g. consider hydraulic fracturing tend to be relatively small e.g. compared to faults and contiguous. Noise acquisition footprint etc. may exist within data to thereby make seismic signals associated with the fractures latent .

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or processor cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium e.g. a non transitory medium .

As an example a method can include providing seismic data for a subsurface region that includes a reflector decomposing at least a portion of the seismic data using principal component analysis PCA to generate at least one principal component and outputting output data based at least in part on the at least one principal component. In such a method seismic data may be provided e.g. or accessed as autocorrelation data e.g. where seismic data has been processed using an autocorrelation algorithm . As an example a method may include generating autocorrelation data for at least a portion of seismic data.

As an example output data may be a principal component e.g. a cube of values etc. which may optionally be enhanced via one or more processes e.g. image processing ant tracking etc. . As an example output data may optionally include information from more than one principle component from a PCA. As an example output data may optionally include information from multiple PCAs e.g. performed on data using one or more different parameter values pre processing techniques etc. .

As an example a reflector may be associated with a fracture. As an example seismic data may include noise an acquisition footprint or both. As an example a method may generate at least one principal component that includes a principal component orthogonal to another principal component that includes noise. As an example a method may generate at least one principal component that includes a principal component orthogonal to another principal component that includes indicia of an acquisition footprint e.g. an acquisition footprint artifact etc. . As an example a method may include generating at least one principal component that includes a principal component orthogonal to another principal component that includes noise and orthogonal to yet another principal component that includes indicia of an acquisition footprint. As an example a classification scheme may classify principal components

As an example a method can include performing ant tracking on at least a portion of a principal component. For example ant tracking may be performed on a portion of a principal component portions of multiple principal components etc. As an example a method can include outputting ant tracking data based at least in part on performing ant tracking.

As an example a subsurface region may include shale. As an example a subsurface region may include or be a layer and for example include at least a portion of a reflector e.g. a reflector that intersects the layer . As an example a reflector may be a reflector of a fracture for example where the fracture may have been generated by a hydraulic fracturing process e.g. optionally using proppant . As an example a method may include performing a fracturing process on a subsurface region based at least in part on output data from a PCA. As an example a subsurface region may include multiple reflectors associated with artificial fractures in the subsurface region.

As an example one or more computer readable storage media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to access seismic data for a subsurface region that includes a reflector decompose at least a portion of the seismic data using principal component analysis PCA to generate at least one principal component and output output data based at least in part on the at least one principal component. In such an example instructions may be provided to instruct a computing system to autocorrelate data to generate autocorrelation data.

As an example in the method the decomposition block may include principal component analysis PCA for example to calculate eigenvectors and eigenvalues of an autocorrelation function applied to data e.g. provided data accessed data pre processed data etc. . As an example where the data is provided as a seismic cube it may be decomposed into orthogonal components which may be referred to as orthogonal cubes. In such an example the orthogonal cubes may be sorted by their contribution to the total variance e.g. amplitude of the provided seismic cube.

As an example an autocorrelation function may be applied to seismic data for example where a 3D autocorrelation function calculates correlation factors between the seismic data and a representation of that seismic data shifted spatially. For example for a provided seismic cube a 3D autocorrelation may represent the seismic cube shifted in different directions e.g. inline crossline and trace as well as lags. In such an example a process may be considered to be a multi attribute process where the attributes present the same shifted cube. For example such a process may obtain the attributes by reading values of a provided seismic cube using a moving 3D window e.g. a sub cube or sub volume .

While cross correlation is a statistical measure that may compare two signals as a function of a time shift lag between them autocorrelation involved comparing a signal to itself for example for a variety of time shifts lags which may assist with detection of repeating periods within signals. As an example an autocorrelation function may be normalized so that its maximum value at zero lag is 1 e.g. where the signal is not shifted as to lag and correlated with itself . As an example a method may apply a maximum lag criterion or maximum lag criteria for example where maximum lag may be approximately equal to or greater than a feature to be detected e.g. where a lag or lags are based at least in part on one or more estimated expected and or known feature dimensions .

As an example PCA may be described mathematically with respect to the following equation where C is the covariance matrix for a multidimensional vector X.

In the foregoing equation C is an autocorrelation function of seismic data according to one or more predefined maximum lags and is the matrix of eigenvectors that are orthogonal to each other and is the diagonal matrix of eigenvalues.

In PCA eigenvectors that correspond to principal components are uncorrelated which may be otherwise stated as the components being orthogonal. In PCA the eigenvector corresponding to the maximum eigenvalue of the covariance matrix may be referred to as the first principal component e.g. first component . As an example depending on data analyzed the first component may correspond to background and be considered a background factor.

As an example the following equation may be implemented for analyzing seismic data provided as a seismic cube 

According to the foregoing equations for and o a method may include calculating a set of orthogonal noncorrelated cubes where for example when summed the resulting value may be approximately equal to those of the provided seismic cube.

A method may include calibrating accessing calibration information etc. For example calibrating may provide for classifying information noise etc. For example one or more components may be classified based on calibration information which may result from training data etc.

A method may include classifying to classify one or more components. For example a classified component may belong to a noise class a footprint class a fracture class a fault class etc. Classification may label a component as being an attribute for example where a component of a fracture class is labeled as a fracture attribute. As an example individual components or multiple components may be processed to perform classification or to provide output e.g. one or more results .

As an example as to a comparison process multiple orthogonal cubes may be compared with other information about fractures such as microimager measurements in wellbores or microseismic interpretation results.

As mentioned the first component from a PCA may be associated with background. For example trial data demonstrate that a first principal component may account for up to about 70 to about 95 of the variance of a provided seismic cube and reflect a main trend of amplitudes of the provided seismic cube. As an example where noise has no correlation with faults or other latent features in a seismic cube the noise may stand out as one or more separate principal components e.g. separate from background separate from latent structure etc. . As an example one or more individual principal components may represent one or more footprints. As an example where a provided seismic cube is separated into a noise component a footprint component and another component summation of the components may approximate the provided seismic cube. As an example where more components are separated from provided seismic data a summation of those components may more closely approximate provided the seismic data.

An analogy may exist for PCA in Fourier analysis for example if a source cube or surface includes features like spikes or steps PCA may create a long set of orthogonal components with approximately equal amplitudes akin to a white spectrum . In such a scenario source data may not be considered as corresponding to a sparse signal e.g. with a limited spectrum accordingly resulting components may be challenging to interpret. As an example for seismic data for seismic slices e.g. that slice across multiple stratigraphic layers features etc. if the orthogonal decomposition analysis is fulfilled along seismic slices it may intersect several different layers that may create an edge that is akin to a spike or step feature and PCA may create a long set of orthogonal components with similar amplitude which may challenge classification or other analysis.

As an example a method may apply orthogonal decomposition to one or more stratigraphic slices where a stratigraphic slice may be defined as being within a crossline and inline plane with a corresponding depth window. As an example for a stratigraphic slice seismic amplitude may be within a span that is less than that for a seismic slice e.g. a slice in a plane that is defined by a depth or time dimension . In such an example seismic amplitude may be represent latent structural features in a manner amendable to orthogonal decomposition for example where such features may be represented by a few orthogonal components which in turn may be more readily classified e.g. interpreted .

As an example a method may apply orthogonal decomposition to a relatively thin layer which may be defined with respect to data as being less than approximately one seismic cycle. In such an example a two dimensional orthogonal decomposition technique may be applied to for example a top or bottom of the layer or for example a three dimensional technique and a two dimensional technique may be applied e.g. to generate more stable results .

As shown in the example of the fourth component restores much of the trial data and the fifth and sixth components and demonstrate edge detection for the trial data in the presence of the synthetic data .

To demonstrate how PCA may compare with a local angle calculation technique and a minimum curvature calculation technique the data were processed to calculate local angles resulting in the data and the data were processed to calculate minimum curvatures resulting in the data while PCA was applied to the data to generate first component data second component data and third component data . In the example of the first component data restores the surface without noise while the second and third components and reproduce faults on the surface. In contrast the local angles data and the minimum curvatures data fail to exhibit the details shown in the component data.

In applying PCA to the data first second third fourth and fifth components and were generated e.g. by decomposition of the data . Table 1 below shows average amplitudes for the components and . As indicated latent reflections for gas oil and oil water interfaces are illustrated in the third component while the fifth component illustrates uncorelated noise.

PCA was applied to the data to generate components that include a first component a second component a tenth component and a fifteenth component . In the example of composite data are also shown. As to quality of the data the first component and the second component may qualitatively and or quantitatively be considered to be good data whereas the tenth component and the fifteenth component may qualitatively and or quantitatively be considered to be not good data as a near 45 degree reflection artifact may be classified as a type of artifact that results from application of a residual staff after migration procedure.

As to the composite data from 25 components 7 were classified as good and combined by summation to produce the composite data . The composite data e.g. a multicomponent composite attribute exhibit continuous reflections which may for example facilitate horizon picking horizon tracking etc.

More particularly the trend data represent a seismic cube that was used as a trend where the trend was made via the surface data which were convoluted with a low frequency sinusoid. To generate the summed data which may be considered a synthetic cube a summation of data was performed using the trend data e.g. a trend cube with amplitude of about 50 units the noise data e.g. a noise cube with amplitude of about 3 units the acquisition footprint data e.g. an acquisition footprint cube with amplitude of about 3 units and the fracture data e.g. a fracture corridors cube with amplitude of about 1.5 units e.g. shown as a non vertical model .

The orthogonal decomposition results obtained through seismic cube 3D analyses along the layer defined by the trend surface the trend data per the surface data . As shown in the first component restores the trend and the second component restores the acquisition footprint. As to the third component it shows a very clear signal from modeled fractures the fracture data . The results also demonstrated that other components may show noise. As to the ant tracking attribute calculated using the third component it detects e.g. uncovers the latent structure the fracture data with more detail and accuracy than the ant tracking workflow result of i.e. the ant tracking attribute which was based on the variance data .

As an example the data may be compared to the data . Such a comparison demonstrates that while the data ant tracking results calculated on a variance attribute look geological they do not correspond well to the fracture direction calculated from the image results whereas the data ant tracking results calculated on the fourth orthogonal component look very continuous and correspond well to the fracture directions observed from images in a well in the cube e.g. the data .

In the data and are shown with colors that indicate different stages of microseismic events for example resulting from fracturing processes implemented to generate fractures. As an example during fracture generation microseismology may be performed to acquire seismic data for microseismic events. As an example a method may include analyzing data generated from a PCA to assess fractures generated by a fracturing process to plan a fracturing process etc. For example planning may include assessing results of one or more stages to plan one or more subsequent stages e.g. as to locations process parameters etc. .

As an example the data may be compared to the data . Such a comparison demonstrates that while the data ant tracking results calculated on a variance attribute can detect major faults in the region they lack detail around minor faults as well as fractures e.g. faults having sizes less than those of the major faults whereas the ant tracking attribute e.g. the data calculated on the third orthogonal component identifies more faults and fractures for example including fractures that correspond to microseismic events see e.g. the colored markings that represent microseismic events for various stages .

In the data and are shown with colors that indicate different stages of microseismic events for example resulting from fracturing processes implemented to generate fractures. As an example during fracture generation microseismology may be performed to acquire seismic data for microseismic events. As an example a method may include analyzing data generated from a PCA to assess fractures generated by a fracturing process to plan a fracturing process etc. For example planning may include assessing results of one or more stages to plan one or more subsequent stages e.g. as to locations process parameters etc. .

As an example the data may be compared to the data . Such a comparison demonstrates that while the data ant tracking results calculated on a variance attribute can detect major faults in the region they lack detail around minor faults as well as fractures e.g. faults having sizes less than those of the major faults whereas the ant tracking attribute e.g. the data calculated on the fourth orthogonal component identifies more faults and fractures for example including fractures that correspond to microseismic events see e.g. the colored markings that represent microseismic events for various stages .

As shown in the fourth orthogonal component and the third orthogonal component calculated via seismic reflection surface at top of carbonate correlate with the image log results and for example can be used in a manner akin to seismic attributes to detect fracture corridors.

As an example a system can include one or more processors for processing information memory operatively coupled to the one or more processors and modules that include instructions stored in the memory and executable by at least one of the one or more processors. As shown in the example of such modules may include for example a provision module for providing seismic data for a subsurface region that includes a reflector a decomposition module for decomposing at least a portion of the seismic data using principal component analysis PCA to generate at least one principal component and an output module for outputting output data based at least in part on the at least one principal component. As an example a system may include an autocorrelation module for generating autocorrelation data. As an example a system may include an ant tracking module for generating ant track data. As an example a system may include a fracturing module for example to perform one or more calculations tasks etc. associated with fracturing. As an example a system may include one or more modules which may be provided to analyze data control a process perform a task perform a workstep perform a workflow etc.

In an example embodiment components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

As an example a device may be a mobile device that includes one or more network interfaces for communication of information. For example a mobile device may include a wireless network interface e.g. operable via IEEE 802.11 ETSI GSM BLUETOOTH satellite etc. . As an example a mobile device may include components such as a main processor memory a display display graphics circuitry e.g. optionally including touch and gesture circuitry a SIM slot audio video circuitry motion processing circuitry e.g. accelerometer gyroscope wireless LAN circuitry smart card circuitry transmitter circuitry GPS circuitry and a battery. As an example a mobile device may be configured as a cell phone a tablet etc. As an example a method may be implemented e.g. wholly or in part using a mobile device. As an example a system may include one or more mobile devices.

As an example a system may be a distributed environment for example a so called cloud environment where various devices components etc. interact for purposes of data storage communications computing etc. As an example a device or a system may include one or more components for communication of information via one or more of the Internet e.g. where communication occurs via one or more Internet protocols a cellular network a satellite network etc. As an example a method may be implemented in a distributed environment e.g. wholly or in part as a cloud based service .

As an example information may be input from a display e.g. consider a touchscreen output to a display or both. As an example information may be output to a projector a laser device a printer etc. such that the information may be viewed. As an example information may be output stereographically or holographically. As to a printer consider a 2D or a 3D printer. As an example a 3D printer may include one or more substances that can be output to construct a 3D object. For example data may be provided to a 3D printer to construct a 3D representation of a subterranean formation. As an example layers may be constructed in 3D e.g. horizons etc. geobodies constructed in 3D etc. As an example holes fractures etc. may be constructed in 3D e.g. as positive structures as negative structures etc. .

Although only a few example embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the example embodiments. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. It is the express intention of the applicant not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 for any limitations of any of the claims herein except for those in which the claim expressly uses the words means for together with an associated function.

