---

title: Technology for managing cloud storage
abstract: Described herein is technology for managing cloud storage. In particular, systems, devices and methods for managing cloud storage are described. In some embodiments, management of cloud storage may result in the designation of storage allocated to a first storage pool as obsolete, and the reallocation and/or reclamation of such storage to a second storage pool and/or a general cloud storage pool. Management may occur in accordance with one or more policies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547654&OS=09547654&RS=09547654
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09547654
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131009
---
The present disclosure relates generally to systems devices and methods technology for managing storage and more particularly to technology for managing storage in a cloud computing environment.

Interest is increasing in the use of cloud computing to address the computing needs of corporations and other entities. Cloud computing may be understood as the use of hardware infrastructure storage services interfaces combinations thereof and the like to deliver computing services such as software infrastructure and storage to a client over a network such as an enterprise network a private network or a public network such as the internet. In a hybrid cloud model a corporation or other entity user may implement a private e.g. enterprise cloud to provide software storage etc. to clients and may utilize a third party cloud such as a public internet cloud a community cloud another private cloud or a combination thereof to provide additional computing resources. In such instances the user may allocate workloads to the third party cloud e.g. on demand and or when resources on the user s private cloud become depleted scarce. The hybrid cloud model can be particularly useful in the case of storage e.g. where data may be stored in cloud storage provided by one or more cloud storage providers.

Although useful the hybrid cloud model can be costly and time consuming to manage particularly in the case of cloud storage. Cloud storage providers often charge a fee per unit of storage that is allocated to a particular user. Cloud storage users may therefore be charged for storage that is not in use or which is being used to store data or other information that is obsolete or otherwise not of interest. Users may consequently wish to actively manage cloud storage and the data stored therein so as to mitigate cost. Cloud storage providers may also wish to reclaim unused or unnecessary cloud storage from cloud storage users so that such storage may be reallocated for more efficient use.

Several options exist for managing e.g. reclaiming and or reallocating cloud storage. Although such options are functional effective use of them may require monitoring and manual management by cloud storage users and or providers. Indeed to prudently manage cloud storage it may be necessary for a cloud storage user to know when cloud storage allocated to them will expire and or when information contained in such storage is not being used. This can entail cumbersome and logistically difficult manual monitoring particularly if cloud storage is allocated to a user in association with numerous virtual machines.

Cloud autoscaling is one option for automatically scaling cloud resources to meet user demand. Although useful cloud autoscaling options generally focus on the scaling of compute resources not storage resources. For example a cloud provider may provide one or more virtual machines VMs to a user each of which may include an associated cloud storage allowance. In such instances cloud autoscaling may automatically delete entire VMs from the resources provided to the user e.g. as specified by a service level agreement SLA between the cloud provider and the user. While the VM s themselves may be deleted. VM images and associated storage may still be allocated to the user and maintained in the cloud. The user may therefore still be charged for the storage associated with the VM even if it is no longer needed.

While the following Detailed Description will proceed with reference being made to illustrative embodiments many alternatives modifications and variations thereof will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

As noted in the Background several mechanisms exist for manually or automatically managing resources provided by a cloud provider. Although useful manually management of cloud resources may be cumbersome and time consuming and thus may be undesirable. Existing automatic mechanisms such as cloud autoscaling are also useful but are generally focused on the management of cloud computing resources and not cloud storage. A need therefore remains in the art for improved mechanisms for managing cloud storage. The technologies described herein aim to address that need.

As will be described in detail below the technologies of the present disclosure relate to devices systems and methods for managing cloud storage. In general the technologies employ a policy based storage sweeping process which may be executed to identify obsolete storage. Obsolete storage may be understood as cloud storage that is allocated to a cloud user and or a virtual machine VM but which has expired e.g. according to a service level agreement is unused is unnecessary as defined by a service level agreement and or storage management policy and combinations thereof. The technologies described herein may permit management i.e. reclamation and or reallocation of obsolete storage in accordance with the parameters of one or more policies. For example obsolete storage allocated to a cloud user and or VM may be automatically reallocated to another user to another client of a user and or to another VM of a user and combinations thereof. Alternatively or additionally obsolete storage may be reclaimed by a cloud storage provider and added to the provider s general storage pool e.g. as free space. In this way the technologies described herein may allow cloud storage users and providers to dynamically and or automatically manage cloud storage in an efficient manner.

As used in this application and in the claims a list of items joined by the term and or can mean any combination of the listed items. For example the phrase A B and or C can mean A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C.

The terms client device and client are interchangeably used herein to refer to a computing device that may be used to access resources provided by a cloud resource provider e.g. cloud storage. Any type of mobile or other electronic device may be used as a client consistent with the present disclosure provided that it has the capability to communicate with or otherwise access cloud resources. Non limiting examples of such devices include mobile and or non mobile devices such as cameras cell phones computer terminals desktop computers electronic readers facsimile machines kiosks netbook computers notebook computers internet devices payment terminals personal digital assistants media players and or recorders servers set top boxes smart phones tablet personal computers ultra mobile personal computers wired telephones combinations thereof and the like. Such devices may be portable or stationary. Without limitation the client devices described herein are preferably in the form of one or more cell phones desktop computers laptop computers servers smart phones and tablet personal computers.

The term cloud storage is used herein to refer to one or more pools of storage that may be hosted by a cloud storage provider e.g. a third party computing system such as a data center one or more servers etc. for the storage of user e.g. client data. Cloud storage may be configured to provide a general pool of storage to a user which may be virtualized according to the user s requirements e.g. as specified in a service level agreement SLA . The cloud storage provider may then expose the storage to the user as one or more storage pool s which the user may use to store files and or data objects. Physically cloud storage may be provided by one or more mass storage devices e.g. hard drives tapes solid state memory combinations thereof etc. which may be distributed on one or more cloud servers that are geographically co located and or distributed.

As used herein the term manage when used in association with cloud storage e.g. manage cloud storage refers to processes by which cloud storage may be reallocated reclaimed or otherwise altered or modified.

As used herein the term module may refer to software firmware circuitry and combinations thereof which may be configured to perform one or more operations consistent with the present disclosure. Software may be embodied as a software package code instructions instruction sets and or data recorded on one or more non transitory computer readable storage mediums. Firmware may be embodied as code instructions or instruction sets and or data that are hard coded in e.g. nonvolatile memory devices. Circuitry as used in any embodiment herein may comprise for example singly or in any combination hardwired circuitry programmable circuitry such as computer processors comprising one or more individual instruction processing cores state machine circuitry software and or firmware that stores instructions executed by programmable circuitry. The modules described herein may collectively or individually be embodied as circuitry that forms a part of a client device a cloud storage device system and or a cloud storage management device system. For the sake of clarity modules may be described herein in the context of their functionality. In such instances it may be understood that such a module may be independently capable of performing the recited functionality and or may cause all or a portion of host computing system e.g. a processor executing the module to perform the stated functions.

As used herein the term service level agreement SLA refers to an agreement between a user e.g. client and a cloud storage provider that specifies the general terms of service between the parties. For example an SLA may specify that the cloud storage provider will provide a general pool of cloud storage of a specified capacity to a user. In some embodiments an SLA may specify maximum and or minimum storage amounts that are to be maintained by the cloud storage provider and allocated to the user.

Although cloud storage may be virtualized as a single large storage pool which may be accessed by a user client s of a user and or virtual machines allocated to a user such virtualization is not required. Indeed cloud storage may be virtualized in any manner that is suitable to a user and which may be specified in an SLA. For example an SLA between a cloud storage user and provider may specify that cloud storage is to be virtualized among one or more clients and or virtual machines VMs . The SLA in some embodiments may specify one or more flavors of VM s wherein each flavor may be allocated a particular amount of cloud storage. For example the SLA may specify that all VMs of a first flavor have a specific e.g. first amount of allocated cloud storage whereas VMs of a second flavor have another specific e.g. second amount of allocated cloud storage. Of course the number of flavors is not limited to two and SLAs specifying any number of flavors and associated storage amounts are envisioned by the present disclosure. Still further an SLA may further specify storage limits for each virtual machine e.g. a maximum and or minimum available storage volume allocation for each VM a maximum and or minimum free storage buffer for each VM combinations thereof and the like.

Of course an SLA may specify other parameters governing the service provided by a cloud storage provider to a user. For example an SLA may include parameters requiring a specified degree of uptime latency requirements notice requirements e.g. for maintenance backup services number of replicas geographic locations post install configurations specified by a cloud storage user combinations thereof and the like.

In contrast to an SLA the terms storage management policy and SMP are interchangeably used herein to refer to one or more policies that include parameters for managing the cloud storage allocated by a cloud storage provider to a user. As will be described in detail below parameters of an SMP may permit a user and or cloud storage provider to manage cloud storage allocated to the user under an SLA. By way of example an SMP may allow storage allocated to a user under an SLA to be permanently or temporarily reclaimed by a cloud storage provider in the event that such storage is determined to be obsolete e.g. by applying factors in the SMP and or SLA. Alternatively or additionally obsolete storage may be reallocated among users clients and or virtual machines.

By way of example an SLA may specify that a cloud storage provider is to allocate a first amount of storage e.g. 100 gigabytes GB or some other amount to a user a client or a user and or one or more virtual machines. In such instances an SMP may include one or more parameters that permit management of all or a portion of the first amount of storage in certain specified circumstances. In one exemplary embodiment the SMP may include parameters permitting management of all or a portion of the first amount of storage if the entirety or relevant portion of the first amount of storage is unused by the relevant user client and or virtual machine.

For example parameters of an SMP may permit management of cloud storage allocated to a user client and or VM if a predetermined amount of such storage is unused i.e. if a free storage allocation threshold size set in an SMP is exceeded . For example an SMP may include parameters that designate free i.e. unused storage exceeding a free storage allocation threshold as obsolete and thus available for management. By way of example parameters of an SMP may set a free storage allocation threshold of 50 GB gigabytes . If 100 GB of cloud storage is initially allocated to a client and 70 GB of that storage is unused the SMP parameters may designate all of a portion of the cloud storage allocated to the client e.g. the free storage as obsolete and available for management.

An SMP may further include parameters specifying the maintenance of a certain level of service storage after reclamation and or reallocation. For example an SMP may include parameters requiring a certain e.g. minimum amount of free space hereinafter a free storage buffer to be maintained within storage allocated to a user client virtual machine or combination thereof under an SLA. The free storage buffer may be any amount that is suitable to the relevant user client and or virtual machine. For example the free storage buffer may range from greater than 0 to less than 100 of the cloud storage allocated to a user client and or virtual machine as appropriate. Without limitation the free storage buffer is preferably set so as to provide adequate free cloud storage to service a user client and or VM s immediate needs but which is not so large as to incur unnecessary expense to the user and or to amount to an inefficient allocation of the cloud storage provider s storage resources. Thus for example the free storage buffer may range from about 90 to about 5 of a first amount of storage allocated to a user client and or virtual machine such as about 80 to about 10 about 70 to about 10 about 60 to about 10 about 50 to about 10 or even about 20 to about 10 of the first amount of storage.

An SLA may for example cause a cloud storage provider to allocate 100 GB to a client and may set a free storage buffer of 10 GB for that client. Parameters of an SMP may specify that if the amount of free storage that is allocated to the client exceeds the free storage buffer for the sake of this example 10 GB the free storage exceeding the free storage buffer may be designated obsolete and available for management. Thus if 50 GB of the 100 GB allocated to the client is used application of the SMP parameters may cause 40 GB of the unused free storage to be designated obsolete and thus available for management.

Factors in an SMP may also permit management of all or a portion of a first amount of storage in the event that such storage has expired under the terms of an SLA. For example an SLA between a user and a cloud storage provider may specify that cloud storage provider is to provide a first amount of storage to the user and its clients virtual machines for a specified time period. e.g. a period of minutes hours days months years etc. . Data storage that has exceeded the specified time period may be considered expired storage. 

In some instances the SLA and or policies of the cloud storage provider may require the cloud storage provider to maintain data stored in the allocated storage beyond the time period specified in the SLA. While such terms may be advantageous in the sense that the user s data may be retained it could result in additional charges and or other complications for the user particularly in instances where all or a portion of the user s data is not needed or wanted. These disadvantages may be mitigated or even avoided by using an SMP that includes factors that designate all or a portion of expired storage as obsolete and thus available for management in accordance with the present disclosure.

Data stored in cloud storage may include one or more indicator flags e.g. in the form of one or more bits metadata combinations thereof and the like. Such flags may serve as an indicator of the relative importance of the data and hence the underlying storage. For example indicator flags may be set to specify that certain data is of high importance whereas other data is of moderate and or low importance. In such instances factors in an SMP may permit reallocation and or reclamation of storage that is occupied by data that bears no indicator or which bears an indicator that is designated in the SMP as being suitable for management. For example one or more parameters of an SMP may specify that storage containing data bearing an indicator signifying that the data is of low importance may be reallocated and or reclaimed whereas storage containing data bearing an indicator of moderate or high importance should not be reallocated and or reclaimed. Similar indicators may be used to designate data and hence underlying storage as obsolete and thus available for management.

Alternatively or additionally data stored in cloud storage may also include metadata or other information that is pertinent to the relative use of such data and hence whether the underlying storage is obsolete and thus suitable for reclamation and or reallocation . For example metadata or other information may specify when data e.g. files objects in cloud storage has last been used e.g. accessed modified combinations thereof and the like the frequency with which such data has been used and combinations thereof. In such instances factors in an SMP may indicate that cloud storage containing data having certain usage characteristics is obsolete and thus available for management in accordance with the present disclosure.

For example an SMP may include parameters which if met may indicate that storage is obsolete if it contains data that has not been used after a specified time period e.g. days weeks months years etc. . In other words factors of an SMP may specify a minimum dormant usage threshold. Storage containing data that exceeds the minimum dormant usage threshold i.e. which has been dormant not accessed within a threshold time period may be designated by the SMP as obsolete and thus suitable for reallocation and or reclamation. As previously noted the minimum dormant usage threshold may range from days weeks months or even years. Whether or not data meets or exceeds the minimum dormant usage threshold may be determined for example by inspection of metadata or other information reflecting the usage of the data in question.

An SMP may further include parameters which if met may indicate that storage is obsolete if it contains data that is only infrequently accessed. In other words an SMP may set a threshold access limit. Storage containing data that does not meet the threshold access limit e.g. which has not been accessed used a specified number of times may be designated by the SMP as obsolete and thus suitable for reallocation and or reclamation. The threshold access limit may be set by the user and or cloud storage provider and may be any suitable number of accesses. For example the threshold access limit may be greater than 0 greater than or equal to about 5 greater than or equal to about 10 greater than or equal to about 25 greater than or equal to about 100 or even greater than or equal to about 1000. The threshold access limit may also be time dependent. That is the threshold access limit may specify a minimum number of accesses uses in a certain time period e.g. minutes hours days months years etc. For example the threshold access limit may require the aforementioned access amounts to occur within about 1 hour about 1 day about 1 week about 1 month about 1 year or within some other specified time range.

An SMP may be further configured such that cloud storage allocated to a user is designated as obsolete based upon the evaluation of a combination of parameters such as those specified above. For example an SMP may designate storage as obsolete and thus suitable for management if the storage contains data that fails to meet a combination of a minimum access threshold and minimum dormant usage threshold. Alternatively or additionally an SMP may designate storage as obsolete and suitable for management if it contains data bearing an indicator of low importance and which has not met a specified threshold access limit and or or minimum dormant usage threshold.

An SMP may further specify a control hierarchy in which the importance of certain parameters may be prioritized over other parameters in the SMP. For example an SMP may prioritize parameters requiring compliance with factors of an SLA data importance etc. over other parameters such as minimum dormant usage threshold and or threshold access limit. Thus for example an SMP may be configured such that storage may not be designated as obsolete and suitable for management if data contained in that storage is designated as important and or reclamation reallocation would result in non compliance with the terms of an SLA. Likewise if data is designated as important e.g. with an indicator flag management of storage containing that data may not be permitted even if the data fails to meet a minimum dormant access limit and or threshold access limit. This may be balanced against other factors such as the scarcity of resources available to particular users clients VM s and combinations thereof as well as the needs of any one or combination of such users clients and VMs. For example an SMP may permit management of storage even storage containing important data in instances where storage allocated to another higher priority user is scarce. For example an SMP may permit the management of storage containing important data allocated to a relatively low priority VM in instances where free storage allocated to a relatively high priority VM has become scarce e.g. less than or equal to about 10 5 or even about 1 of the storage allocated to the high priority VM is free . Likewise management of storage containing important data may also be permitted by an SMP in instances where a cost threshold is exceeded.

An SMP may also be aware of the terms of an SLA relevant to the storage under consideration and may include factors which may designate storage as suitable for management based upon an evaluation of the terms of the SLA. For example an SMP may be configured such that it is aware of data usage charges imposed under an SLA on a relevant user for the data under consideration. In such instances an SMP may be capable of determining cost savings and or other benefits which may accrue to a user in the event that the storage under consideration is designated as obsolete and reallocated and or reclaimed. In some instances the SMP may include a cost savings threshold wherein storage under consideration may be designated as obsolete and suitable for management if the cost savings threshold is met. The cost savings threshold may be set in any suitable manner and may correlate to a specified monetary value a specified percentage of savings i.e. a monetary savings relative to the total cost of the cloud storage allocated to a pertinent user client and or virtual machine combinations thereof and the like. In some instances an SMP may not designate data and underlying storage under consideration as obsolete if the cost savings threshold is not met. In other words the cost savings threshold may be employed in a control hierarchy within the SMP and may control whether data is designated as obsolete and thus whether the underlying storage is available for management. In such instances the SMP may be further configured to communicate the potential cost savings that would result from managing obsolete storage in a proposed manner to a user in which case management of the storage may be contingent on the receipt of an affirmation from the user that management is to proceed.

In any case all or a portion of cloud storage designated as obsolete by application of the parameters of the SMP may be managed in accordance with the present disclosure. For example all or a portion of obsolete storage may be reallocated from a first user client and or virtual machine to at least one other user client and or virtual machine. Alternatively or additionally all or a portion of the obsolete free storage may be reclaimed by a cloud storage provider from a first user client and or virtual machine in which case it may be reallocated to the general storage pool free space available for allocation by the cloud storage provider.

One aspect of the present disclosure relates to a cloud storage management system. Reference is therefore made to which depicts exemplary system architecture of a cloud storage management system consistent with the present disclosure. As shown cloud storage management system hereafter system includes client cloud server s and optional cloud storage manager CSM which may communicate with one another over network . Among other things cloud server s include cloud storage .

Client may be any type of client device as defined above and may be independent or part of public community or private cloud. For example client may be a computing terminal or other client device that is part of a private cloud such as a corporate enterprise cloud. Alternatively or additionally client may be a standalone device. Without limitation client is preferably a computing terminal a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet personal computer a smart phone or a mobile device that is part of a private e.g. corporate cloud.

Client may be configured to communicate with cloud server s and optional CSM via network . For example client may via network transfer or otherwise communicate data e.g. files data objects etc. and other resources to cloud server s for storage in cloud storage . Client may thereof include communications circuitry not shown which may be any type of circuitry that is that is capable of sending and receiving information from and with client . For example client may include an antenna a transmitter a receiver a transceiver a transponder a network interface device e.g. a network interface card combinations thereof and the like. Accordingly client may be capable of sending and or receiving data signals using one or more wired or wireless communications protocols using close long range communication as may be used with a close long range communications network.

The phrase close range communication is used herein to refer to one or more technologies for sending receiving data signals between devices that are relatively close to one another. Close range communication may occur over a close range communication network such as but not limited to a BLUETOOTH network a personal area network PAN near field communication NFC a ZigBee network a wired Ethernet connection combinations thereof and the like. In contrast the phrase long range communication network is used herein to refer to technologies for sending receiving data signals between devices that are a significant distance away from one another. Long range communication occurs over a long range communication network such as but not limited to a WiFi network a wide area network WAN including but not limited to a cell phone network 3G 4G etc. and the like the internet telephony networks combinations thereof and the like.

Network may be any network that carries data. For example network may be a close range network a long range network or a combination thereof. Examples of such networks include the internet private networks virtual private networks VPN public switch telephone networks PSTN integrated services digital networks ISDN digital subscriber link networks DSL wireless data networks e.g. cellular phone networks wireless local area networks and the like BLUETOOTH networks near field communication networks ZigBee networks a local area network LAN a cellular phone network 3G 4G etc. combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation network is preferably the internet.

Client may further include processing resources and memory resources both not shown . Processing resources of client may include one or more general purpose processors and or application specific integrated circuits which may be capable of executing one or more processing threads. In generally such processing resources are configured to execute software firmware and the like stored on memory resources of client . For example processing resources of client may execute software such as an operating system stored in memory resources of client . Alternatively or additionally processing resources of client may execute one or more modules that may function to provide an interface on client to facilitate interaction with cloud server s and or cloud storage . Optional client user interface UI module shown in is one example of such a module and when executed may provide an interface through which client may interact with and or manage cloud storage an optional registration module a policy enforcement module and or a storage management module as described later.

Memory resources of client may include one or more mass storage devices or other memory devices within or directly coupled to client . Examples of such memory resources include but are not limited to the following memory types read only memory electrically programmable memory random access memory flash memory which may include for example NAND or NOR type memory structures magnetic disk memory and or optical disk memory. Additionally or alternatively memory resources on client may include other and or later developed types of computer readable memory.

Cloud server s may be in the form of one or more cloud e.g. internet enterprise community etc. servers that include mass storage or other memory devices that may be leveraged as cloud storage . In operation cloud servers may function to allocate cloud storage as one or more virtualized data storage pools to one or more users such as client . e.g. in accordance with an SLA between a user and a cloud storage provider as discussed previously. Cloud servers and or cloud storage may be also configured to send and or receive data to from client . For example cloud server s may be configured to receive information e.g. files and or data objects from client and to store such information in cloud storage . Storage of such information may be in accordance with a service level agreement a storage management policy or a combination thereof.

Cloud server s may also include processing resources and memory resources which may be the same or different form the processing and memory resources described above in connection with client . In some embodiments the processing resources of cloud server s may be configured to host and or execute a storage management module SMM and or computer readable instructions thereof which may function to analyze cloud storage to determine usage data report usage data to a policy enforcement module to execute storage reclamation and or reallocation operations consistent with the present disclosure and or a combination thereof. Cloud server s may further include at least one interface such as a web based user interface a web service application programming interface API a cloud storage gateway or a combination thereof. Such interface s may be configured to enable client access configure and or manage cloud storage .

Cloud storage may be in the form of one of more storage devices which may be provided on a single cloud server or multiple servers as described above. In general cloud storage may include any type of storage e.g. magnetic optical magneto optical static e.g. flash and or read only memory etc. that is capable of storing digital information received from client . Data may be stored on cloud storage in any suitable format such as in a file system format an object based format or a combination thereof. Without limitation cloud storage is preferably configured to store data in an object base format. In such instances cloud storage may include one or more object based storage devices OSD s .

In some embodiments system may include an optional cloud storage manager CSM such as CSM . Generally optional CSM may be understood as an optional device system which may function to manage cloud storage in accordance with one or more storage management policies. For example optional CSM may be configured to perform policy enforcement operations and or to instigate scheduling storage analysis sweeping and or cloud storage reclamation reallocation operations consistent with the present disclosure. CSM may be owned and or operated by client a cloud storage provider a third party cloud storage management service or a combination thereof.

Client cloud server s and or optional CSM may host or otherwise store one or more modules thereon which may function individually or in combination to provide a mechanism for managing cloud storage . In particular modules on client cloud server s and or optional CSM may function individually or in combination to perform cloud storage management functions on data pools of cloud storage consistent with the present disclosure. Examples of cloud storage management functions include but are not limited to scheduling operations storage analysis sweeping operations policy enforcement operations reclamation operations and or reallocation operations.

Reference is now made to which is a block diagram of various modules that may be used in the technologies of the present disclosure. For the sake of illustration embodiments are described herein wherein certain modules are present and executed on certain devices such as client server s and or CSM . It should be understood that such embodiments are exemplary and that the modules described herein may be hosted and executed on any suitable device.

As shown in the technologies of the present disclosure may include storage management module SMM and policy enforcement module PEM . In general SMM may function to manage the timing and execution of analysis sweeps of cloud storage as well as the management i.e. reclamation and or reallocation of storage provided by cloud storage e.g. to client of . While SMM may be configured as a single module for performing these functions as shown in such configuration is not required. Indeed. SMM may be configured as or may include multiple different modules. This concept is illustrated in by the hashing of the boxes surrounding scheduler module sweep engine module and reclamation engine module . It should also be understood that those modules need not be components of another module and may be separate from SMM . Without limitation. SMM preferably includes scheduler module sweep engine module and reclamation engine module and is preferably hosted and or executed within the context of one or more cloud server s and or one or more virtual machines provided by such server s . Alternatively or additionally SMM and any or all of its components may be hosted on and executed by optional CSM .

In some embodiments cloud server s may be configured to provide cloud storage to client in association with one or more virtual machines wherein each virtual machine may be allocated a portion of the total storage pool allocated to a user or a client of a user. Such configuration may be specified for example by an SLA between a user and a cloud storage provider. In any case SMM may be configured as a software module which may be executed within the context of each virtual machine provided by cloud sever s . Alternatively or additionally SMM may be incorporated into or be in the form of a hypervisor virtual machine monitor in which case it may operate to perform cloud storage management operations on data storage pools allocated to one or more virtual machines under its purview.

Scheduler module may be integral to or separate from SMM and may be configured to coordinate the timing and execution of analysis sweeps of cloud storage by sweep engine module . For example scheduler module may be configured to schedule the performance of analysis sweeps on cloud storage such that sweeps occur at a specified time according to a schedule at periodic intervals and or on demand from a user administrator e.g. in response to sweep instigation commands received from client UI module . The timing and execution of analysis sweeps may be specified in one or more storage management policies which may be resident within scheduler module policy enforcement module e.g. within storage management policies or at another suitable location.

In some embodiments scheduler module may be configurable e.g. by policy enforcement module PEM and or with user inputs received e.g. from optional client UI . For example PEM may include storage management policy ies any or all of which may include parameters specifying the execution of storage sweeps at particular times according to a schedule etc. In such instances policy enforcement module when executed by a processor of a computing device e.g. cloud server s may cause the computing device to configure scheduler module accordingly.

For example where scheduler module and PEM are hosted and executed on the same computing device PEM may cause the computing device to configure scheduler module to instigate the performance of analysis sweep in accordance with parameters in storage management policy ies . Alternatively or additionally where scheduler module is resident on a first computing device e.g. optional CSM and PEM is resident on a second computing device e.g. cloud server s PEM when executed may cause the second computing device to send scheduling signals to the first computing device in response to which the first computing device may configure scheduler module appropriately.

As used herein the term analysis sweep and sweep are interchangeably used to refer to one or more operations in which sweep engine module may scan and collect usage data from cloud storage . Usage data may include data relevant to an applicable storage management policy. For example usage data may include one of more of information regarding the total amount of storage available in a storage pool allocated to a user client and or virtual machine the total amount of free storage available in such storage pool the amount of occupied storage in such storage pool metadata relevant to the use and or importance of files and or data objects stored in such storage pool such as the last access date last modification date number of accesses uses optionally over a specified time period etc. of such files and objects the author originator of such files objects an indicator of a file object s relative degree of importance high low etc. the cost of the storage under consideration combinations thereof and the like.

In any case when an analysis sweep is to be performed scheduler module may communicate or may cause PEM to communicate sweep instigation messages to sweep engine module . In the former case scheduler module may be aware of parameters included in storage management policies within PEM and may include the identity of such parameters in sweep instigation messages to sweep engine module . In the latter case the sweep instigation messages may identify the storage pool under consideration by host client and or virtual machine to PEM . In response to such messages PEM may analyze storage management policy ies to determine which policies apply to the relevant storage pool and what parameters are specified in such policy ies . PEM may then communicate a sweep instigation message including the identity of those parameters to sweep engine . In sum scheduler and or policy enforcement module may inform sweep engine of the parameters included in the relevant storage management policy which sweep engine module may use to tailor its analysis sweep accordingly.

In response to a sweep instigation message sweep engine module may perform an analysis sweep on cloud storage . As noted above the sweep instigation messages may in some instances instruct sweep engine to sweep cloud storage for usage information relevant to one or more storage management policies such as storage management policies . For example where storage management policies include parameters that permit deny reclamation and or reallocation of storage based a minimum dormant access limit threshold access limit and data importance indicator flag sweep instigation messages from scheduler and or policy enforcement module may cause sweep engine module to perform an analysis sweep on cloud storage for usage data relevant to such parameters.

Analysis sweeps of cloud storage may be performed in any suitable manner. For example sweep engine may obtain file system allocations file properties and other file system metadata. As another example sweep engine may also obtain metadata associated with object storage allocation. Sweep engine may obtain this information from APIs provided by Cloud Storage providers or directly from VMs either through APIs or by logging into them.

Sweep engine module may be configured to perform and or instigate the performance of analysis sweep operations and reporting operations consistent with the present disclosure. In this regard sweep engine module may be configured to perform or instigate the performance of analysis sweeps on cloud storage on a per host basis e.g. on all data storage pools provided by a particular cloud storage host provider on a per server basis e.g. on all data storage pools provided by a particular cloud server and or on a per storage pool basis e.g. on one or more storage pools allocated to a particular user client and or virtual machine by a cloud server .

When cloud server s is are configured to provide cloud storage to a cloud storage user such as client in association with one or more virtual machines each virtual machine may be allocated a portion of a total storage pool allocated to a cloud storage user. In such instances sweep engine module may be configured to perform analysis sweeps on a per virtual machine basis i.e. on the portion of the total storage pool that is allocated to a particular virtual machine or set of virtual machines. Moreover sweep engine module may be configured as a software module for execution within the context of a virtual machine and or as part of a hypervisor virtual machine monitor overseeing one of more virtual machine s provided by cloud server s .

In any case sweep engine module may be further configured to communicate usage data regarding cloud storage e.g. to policy enforcement module the functions of which will be described later. For example sweep engine module when executed by a processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to transmit usage information signals to policy enforcement module . The usage information signals may include for example the total amount of cloud storage allocated by cloud storage the total amount of free space in cloud storage the total amount of used storage in cloud storage usage data for files and or data objects stored in cloud storage the cost of free used storage in cloud storage the relative scarcity of free storage of cloud storage allocated to a particular user client VM combinations thereof and the like any or all of which may be optionally broken out by user client and or virtual machine.

Reclamation engine module may be configured to manage cloud storage . i.e. to perform storage reclamation and or reallocation operations consistent with the present disclosure. For example reclamation engine may in response to a storage management command from policy enforcement module cause cloud server s to manage e.g. reclaim and or reallocate storage in accordance with one or more storage management policy ies of PEM . Performance of such operations may be accomplished in any suitable manner.

For example reclamation engine may perform storage reclamation and or reallocation operations on a per user basis e.g. on the total storage pool allocated to a particular cloud storage user. Alternatively or additionally reclamation engine may perform storage reclamation and or reallocation operations on a per client basis e.g. on a subset of the total data storage pool which is allocated to a particular client of a cloud storage user. In still other embodiments cloud server s may be configured to provide cloud storage to client in association with one or more virtual machines in which each virtual machine may be allocated a portion of the total storage pool allocated to a cloud storage user. In such instances reclamation engine may perform storage reclamation and or reallocation operations on a per virtual machine basis e.g. on the portion of the total storage pool that is allocated to a particular virtual machine or set of virtual machines .

Reallocation operations consistent with the present disclosure may involve the designation of all or a portion of a first amount of cloud storage allocated to a first user client and or virtual machine as obsolete. All or part of storage so designated may be de allocated from the first user client and or virtual machine and reallocated to a second user client and or virtual machine. The manner in which reallocation operations are performed may be specified by user input e.g. through optional client UI an SLA and or an SMP. For example an SMP may include parameters dictating when storage allocated to a first user client VM is obsolete and thus suitable for management e.g. reallocation and or reclamation as discussed above and may further include parameters specifying one or more second users clients VMs to whom all or a part of the obsolete portion should be reallocated. Alternatively or additionally reallocation operations performed by reclamation engine may be guided by policy enforcement module which may be aware of the storage status of other second users clients and or virtual machines and which may prioritize reallocation of cloud storage amongst such entities. Still further reallocation operations may be guided by inputs may through client UI .

In some embodiments reclamation engine may in response to storage management commands from policy enforcement module cause cloud server s to de allocate all or a portion of cloud storage that is allocated to a first user client and or virtual machine. Based user inputs e.g. through client UI and or on factors known to reclamation engine and or policy enforcement module reclamation engine may reallocate the de allocated portion of the cloud storage to a second user client and or virtual machine. As a result cloud storage allocated to the second user client and or virtual machine may increase by the amount of storage de allocated from the first user client and or virtual machine. Similar operations could be performed based on user inputs made through optional client UI .

Reclamation operations consistent with the present disclosure may involve the designation of all or a portion of a first amount of cloud storage allocated to a first user client and or virtual machine as obsolete. In such instances the all or a party of the obsolete storage may be de allocated from the first user client and or virtual machine and reallocated to reclaimed by the general storage pool of server s as free space. The manner in which reclamation operations are performed may be specified by an SLA and or an SMP. For example an SMP may include parameters dictating when storage allocated to a first user client VM is obsolete and thus suitable for management as discussed above. The SMP may also include parameters specifying whether all or a portion of obsolete storage may be reclaimed as free space by cloud storage provider which may be specified by the cloud storage user depending on the his her goals. Provided those parameters are met reclamation engine may in response to storage management commands from policy enforcement module cause cloud server s to reclaim all or a portion of cloud storage as free space in accordance with a service level agreement and or SMP.

As noted previously cloud server s may be configured to provide cloud storage to a cloud storage user such as client in association with one or more virtual machines wherein each virtual machine may be allocated an initial first amount of the total storage pool allocated to a cloud storage user. In such instances reclamation and or reallocation operations may be performed by reclamation engine by deleting one or more virtual machines at the host level designating all or a portion of the first amount of storage from the deleted VM s as obsolete and instantiating a new copy of the deleted VM s with an adjusted amount of storage corresponding to the first amount minus all or a part of the obsolete storage. The portion of the obsolete storage not included in the new copy of the VM may then be reclaimed as free space within cloud storage and or reallocated to at least one other client and or virtual machine.

Alternatively or additionally reclamation engine may perform reclamation and or reallocation operations on cloud storage by deleting files and or data objects from a first virtual machine thus freeing storage within the first virtual machine. During or after such deletion reclamation engine may cause the first virtual machine to be migrated e.g. non destructively and or non disruptively to another thinly provisioned storage space as a second virtual machine without all or a portion of the free space in the first virtual machine. Once the migration is complete the first virtual machine may be deleted and the resulting free space may be reclaimed and or reallocated as discussed above.

Policy enforcement module PEM may generally function to enforce one or more policies that govern or otherwise control the allocation of cloud storage amongst one or more users clients and or virtual machines. For example policy enforcement module may store or otherwise be aware of the parameters of a service level agreement SLA between a cloud storage provider and cloud storage user e.g. client in which case it may function to ensure that the requirements of the SLA are met and or maintained. Alternatively or additionally PEM may enforce storage management policy ies which may govern the allocation of cloud storage at the host client and or virtual machine level as discussed above.

As noted previously PEM may be configured to transmit sweep instigation signals to sweep engine . More specifically PEM when executed by a processor of a computing device e.g. by client cloud server s and or optional cloud storage manager may cause the computing device to monitor for sweep instigation signals from SMM or more particularly from scheduler module . In response to a sweep instigation signal PEM may determine which storage management policy ies apply and may transmit a sweep instigation signal e.g. a modified version of a received sweep instigation signal that identifies parameters relevant to such policy ies to sweep engine module . Such signals may be configured to cause sweep engine module to perform an analysis sweep of cloud storage for usage data and other information relevant to the pertinent storage management policies. Alternatively or additionally in response to a sweep initiation signal PEM may determine which storage management policy ies apply and may transmit a signal identifying parameters relevant to such policy ies to scheduler module . In response to such signals scheduler module may transmit a sweep instigation signal including the parameter provided by PEM to reclamation engine .

PEM may be further configured to monitor for the receipt of usage information signals from sweep engine module . As noted previously usage information signals may contain usage information relevant to the storage management policy ies and or service level agreement s governing the cloud storage in question. In response to receiving a usage information signal PEM may analyze the received signal for relevant usage information and may compare the received usage information against parameters specified in the relevant storage management control policy ies and or service level agreement s . Based on this comparison PEM when executed by a processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to determine whether all or a portion of cloud storage under consideration is obsolete and thus suitable for management e.g. reallocation and or reclamation as discussed above.

If any or all of the cloud storage is obsolete and provided the parameters of a relevant SLA and or storage management policy ies are met PEM or a host computer system executing PEM may transmit one or more storage management signals to storage management module or more specifically to reclamation engine . The storage management signals may be configured to cause reclamation engine to perform storage management operations on relevant cloud storage in accordance with pertinent storage management policy ies and or an overarching SLA. For example the storage management signals may be configured to cause reclamation engine to reclaim and or reallocate all or a portion of storage containing data designated as obsolete as generally discussed above.

In some embodiments cloud storage may be allocated amongst various clients and or virtual machines. In such instances PEM may be configured as a hypervisor or supervisory module that manages cloud storage provisioned to multiple different clients and or virtual machines. In some embodiments PEM may be in communication with one or storage management modules having purview over all or a portion of those clients and or virtual machines. As a result PEM may be aware of the storage status of each client and or virtual machine under its purview and may allocate priority to certain e.g. first clients virtual machines over other e.g. second virtual machines. For example cloud storage may be allocated between a relatively high priority first client and a relatively low priority second client.

Based upon usage information included in usage information signals received from one or more relevant sweep engine modules PEM may be aware of the storage condition of the first and second clients and or virtual machines. When cloud storage for the first client virtual machine becomes scarce e.g. the free storage available to the first client virtual machine falls below a predetermined free storage buffer PEM may cause a sweep engine module having purview over the second client virtual machine to perform an analysis sweep on the second client and report usage information to PEM . PEM may analyze the reported usage information and determine whether a portion of the storage allocated to the second client virtual machine is obsolete. If so PEM when executed by a processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to send reallocation instructions to reclamation engine wherein the instructions are configured to cause reclamation engine to de allocate the obsolete storage from the second client virtual machine and reallocate the obsolete storage to the first client virtual machine.

As further shown in the technologies of the present disclosure may also include optional client user interface UI module and optional registration module . As briefly discussed above optional client UI module may generally function to provide an interface through which a user may interact with one or more of the other modules discussed above. In this regard optional client UI module may be hosted or otherwise present on a client device and may include computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor of the client device cause the client device to provide a user interface for interacting with one or more of storage management module scheduler module sweep engine module reclamation engine cloud storage policy enforcement module storage management policy ies and or optional registration module .

Optional client UI may be configured in any suitable manner for this purpose. For example client UI may include instructions that when executed by a client device cause the client device to produce a user interface as part of a standalone application executed within the context of an operating system of the client device as a web based interface combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation optional client UI is preferably configured to produce a web based user interface.

In some embodiments optional client UI may be configured to permit a user to opt in to the cloud storage management technology described herein. For example optional client UI may allow a user to make inputs to optional registration module which may generally track user opt in e.g. agreement with a cloud storage provider to have cloud storage managed in accordance with a relevant SLA and or storage management policy ies .

Optional client UI may also permit a user to configure scheduler module as generally mentioned above. For example client UI may be configured to relay user inputs to scheduler module so as to adjust the timing of sweep instigation signals and hence the execution of sweeping operations and storage management operations described herein. In some embodiments optional UI may be configured to send on demand signals to scheduler module . In response to such signals scheduler module may instigate an analysis sweep outside of a pre determined schedule and or time. i.e. at the demand of a user.

For the sake of illustration two exemplary systems for managing cloud storage will now be described wherein the modules of are hosted and executed on various devices to accomplish a method of managing cloud storage in accordance with the present disclosure and shown in . One example of the effects of such example systems and method to manage cloud storage is shown in . It should be understood that such examples are described for the sake of clarity and ease of understanding of the present disclosure only and that other configurations and results are possible and contemplated.

In a first example client may host optional client UI and one or more cloud server s may host storage management module . PEM and cloud storage . In this example storage management module includes scheduler module sweep engine module and reclamation engine and PEM includes storage management policy ies . In a second example an optional cloud storage manager e.g. CSM is used and hosts PEM and scheduler module while sweep engine module and reclamation engine module remain on one or more cloud server s .

For clarity and ease of understanding it is assumed for both examples that an SLA has caused a cloud service provider to allocate cloud storage amongst three instances e.g. virtual machines . This concept is illustrated in which depict instances and in their initial state as including the same amount of allocated storage as well as a software layer cross hatched used storage hashed and free storage blank . The relative amount of free space on cloud storage after the initial allocation to instances is illustrated in as free space .

Turning now to an exemplary method of the present disclosure may begin at block . At block a determination may be made as to whether an analysis sweep is to be performed. Consistent with the foregoing discussion the decision of whether an analysis sweep is to be performed may be controlled by scheduler module of SMM by PEM and or by a user input through optional client UI . For example scheduler module may be configured to instigate an analysis sweep at a predetermined time according to a schedule etc. In such instances scheduler module may instigate an analysis sweep as previously described. Alternatively or additionally PEM may be aware that the amount of free space allocated to one or more of instances has become scarce e.g. from reports received from a hypervisor of instances . In such instance PEM may instigate an analysis sweep particularly in instances where the instance with scarce resources is of higher priority than other instances. Still further an analysis sweep may be instigated by an input made to scheduler and or PEM e.g. via optional client UI .

If a sweep is not to be performed the method may proceed to block and end. If a sweep is to be performed the method may proceed to block whereupon PEM and or scheduler module may instigate a storage sweeping operation. As noted previously. PEM and or scheduler module may initiate a storage sweep by transmitting a sweep instigation message to sweep engine module . In examples where CSM hosts scheduler module and or PEM one or both of such modules may cause CSM to transmit a sweep instigation message to sweep engine module e.g. via a network such as network .

The method may then proceed to block wherein usage information for an instance may be collected. As explained previously usage information may be collected by sweep engine which may sweep instances as generally described above. Prior to execution of a sweep PEM and or scheduler module may transmit one or more signals to sweep engine module to inform it of parameters contained in an SLA and or a storage management policy governing the relevant instance. Sweep engine module may then sweep instances to obtain usage information correlating to the parameters of the storage management policy.

For example PEM may enforce a storage management policy applying to each of instances . For the sake of discussion the policy in the foregoing examples may include parameters specifying that free space allocated to instances is obsolete and may be reclaimed if it is greater than 50 of the storage allocated to a particular instance in the initial state is not used. The storage management policy and or a relevant SLA may also require each of instances to maintain a free storage buffer equal to 10 of the storage initially allocated to each instance. With these parameters in mind sweep engine module may sweep instances to determine the total amount of storage allocated to each instance and the total amount of free storage available in each instance. Sweep engine module may then report this usage information to policy enforcement module .

The method may then proceed to block wherein the usage information reported by sweep engine module is evaluated against the parameters of a relevant SLA and or storage management policy ies . As discussed above evaluation of the usage information in this manner may be performed by PEM and may be done on an instance by instance basis. Pursuant to block a determination may be made as to whether any storage allocated to an instance under consideration is obsolete as discussed above. If not the method may proceed to block wherein a determination may be made e.g. by PEM as to whether evaluation is to proceed to the next instance. If so the method may proceed back to block .

If all or a portion of storage allocated to instances is determined to be obsolete the method may proceed to block wherein a determination may be made as to whether it is necessary to inform a relevant client. In this regard a storage management policy and or an SLA governing one or more of instances may require confirmation by a client that management of storage identified as obsolete is acceptable. If confirmation from a client is needed a client confirmation message may be sent to a relevant client such as a client having access to the instance under consideration. The client confirmation message may be sent for example by PEM storage management module and or a computing system executing one or more of such modules. Without limitation client confirmation messages are preferably transmitted by PEM or a computing system executing PEM .

Regardless a client confirmation message may include information that may be of interest to a user in evaluating whether management of cloud storage is desired. For example a client confirmation message may include information regarding the amount in which obsolete storage would be managed e.g. reallocated and or reclaimed of storage that would remain allocated to an instance after management of time for which an original amount of storage allocated to instance would be unavailable of time required to manage the storage in the manner indicated amount of money that may be saved if the storage is managed in the indicated fashion combinations thereof and the like.

The method may then proceed to block wherein a determination may be made as to whether client affirmation has been received. In this regard PEM may be configured or when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to monitor for the receipt of a client affirmation message. The client affirmation message may originate from a client of a user e.g. client and may be sent in response to inputs made to the client e.g. via optional client UI . If a client affirmation message is not received or not received within a specified time period the method may proceed to block . If a client affirmation message is received however or if it is not necessary to inform a client pursuant to block the method may proceed to block wherein storage allocated to the instance under consideration may be managed in the manner indicated.

Applying the policies described above i.e. an SLA requiring a 10 free storage buffer and a storage management policy indicating that free storage allocated to an instance is obsolete and may be reclaimed if greater than 50 of the storage allocated to an instance is free pursuant to blocks and PEM may determine that free storage among the storage allocated to instance is obsolete. That is usage information reported to PEM from sweeping engine module may indicate that greater than 50 of the storage allocated to instance is free. Applying the foregoing policies. PEM may pursuant to block determine that the free storage allocated to such instance is obsolete. Assuming that no client affirmation is required or client affirmation has been received PEM may pursuant to block instruction a reclamation engine e.g. reclamation engine module to manage the storage allocated to instance in accordance with the SLA and storage management policy ies . In this case PEM may instruct reclamation engine module to reclaim 40 of the free storage allocated to instance and reallocate such storage to the free storage space provided by a cloud storage provider.

The method may then proceed to block and repeat for each instance or it may end at block . In the example of each iteration of the method of resulted in the identification of obsolete storage in at least one of instances and . Pursuant to block PEM instructed a reclamation engine module to reclaim the obsolete storage and reallocate it to the free storage of a cloud storage provider. Therefore upon completion of the method of for each instance the subsequent state of each instance shown in as instances will remain but will have less storage allocated to it. For example each of instances and may include free storage in the amount of 10 or more of the initial storage amount allocated to each instance as specified by the relevant SLA governing each instance. Obsolete storage trimmed from instances is reallocated in the subsequent state to free storage space as shown.

As discussed above the technologies of the present disclosure may provide a mechanism for dynamically managing cloud storage using one or more policies. In this way effective control over cloud storage may be obtained by managing and or configuring policies covering allocated cloud storage which may the be enforced automatically and or on demand so as to obtain an efficient or otherwise desirable allocation of storage resources while limiting or eliminating costly and or time consuming manual management of storage. The technology described herein may also allow cloud storage providers to improve capacity management by increasing utilization through reallocation and or reclamation processes.

Examples of the present disclosure include subject material such as a method means for performing acts of the method a device at least one machine readable medium including instructions that when performed by a machine cause the machine to perform acts of the method and of an apparatus or system for hardening the security of digital information and assets that may be used to access digital information on a client device as discussed below.

According to this example there is provided a cloud storage management system including a policy enforcement module and a storage management module configured to analyze storage allocated to at least one first storage pool of a general cloud storage pool to determine usage information regarding the first storage pool and to report the usage information to the policy enforcement module wherein the policy enforcement module is configured to enforce a storage management policy governing the management of storage allocated to the first storage pool the storage management policy comprising at least one first parameter for determining whether at least a portion of the first storage pool is obsolete the policy enforcement module is further configured to issue a storage management command to the storage management module the storage management command instructing the storage management module to manage obsolete storage of the first storage pool by reclaiming at least a portion of the obsolete storage as free space of the general cloud storage pool reallocating at least a portion of the obsolete storage to at least one second storage pool allocated from the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof and the storage management module is configured to manage the obsolete storage in accordance with the storage management command.

This example includes the elements of example 1 wherein the cloud storage is virtualized in accordance with a service level agreement into a plurality of storage pools including at least the first storage pool and the second storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 1 wherein the first storage pool is allocated to a first virtual machine and the second storage pool is allocated to a second virtual machine.

This example includes the elements of example 1 wherein the at least one first parameter includes at least one of a free storage allocation threshold for the first storage pool a free storage buffer for the first storage pool an expiration date for storage of the first storage pool one or more indicator flags pertaining to data stored in the first storage pool a minimum dormant usage threshold for data stored in the first storage pool a threshold access limit for data stored in the first storage pool a cost savings threshold based on monetary savings achieved that may be achieved by management of the first storage pool authorship information pertaining to data stored in the first storage pool and combinations thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 1 wherein the policy enforcement module is configured to designate at least a portion of the first storage pool as obsolete if usage information indicates that the at least one first parameter is met.

This example includes the elements of any one of examples 1 5 wherein the policy enforcement module further includes at least one second parameter to override the designation of at least a portion of the first storage pool as obsolete if the at least one second parameter is met.

This example includes the elements of example 6 wherein the at least one second parameter includes a service level agreement override configured to cause the policy enforcement module to override the designation of at least a portion the first storage pool as obsolete if management of the first storage pool would result in non compliance with one or more factors of a service level agreement governing the first storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 7 wherein the one or more factors of the service level agreement include a minimum storage allocation for the first storage pool a minimum free storage threshold for the first storage pool and combinations thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 6 wherein the at least one second parameter includes a data importance override configured to cause the policy enforcement module to override the designation of at least a portion the first storage pool as obsolete if management of the first storage pool would result in reclamation of storage containing data bearing an indicator of high importance reallocation of storage containing data bearing an indicator of high importance or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 6 wherein the at least one second parameter includes a cost savings override configured to cause the policy enforcement module to override the designation of at least a portion of the first storage pool as obsolete if management of the first storage pool would fail to meet a predetermined cost savings threshold.

This example includes the elements of example 5 and further includes at least a third parameter to control the manner in which obsolete storage of the first storage pool is managed.

This example includes the elements of example 11 wherein the third parameter is configured to cause the policy enforcement module to reallocate at least a portion of the obsolete storage to the second storage pool reclaim at least a portion of the obsolete storage to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 11 wherein the third parameter is configured to cause the policy enforcement module to reallocate at least a portion of the obsolete storage among a plurality of storage pools including at least the second storage pool and storage pools other than the second storage pool wherein the policy enforcement module is configured to prioritize the reallocation of the obsolete storage to one or more of the second storage pool and the storage pools other than the second storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 1 wherein the policy enforcement module is further configured to determine an impact of a proposed management of obsolete storage report the impact to a client user interface module in response to receipt of a client affirmation message from the client interface module instruct the storage management module to manage the obsolete storage in accordance with the proposed management.

This example includes the elements of example 1 and further includes a scheduler module the scheduler module to schedule the performance of analysis sweeps on the first storage pool by the storage management module to determine the usage information.

This example includes the elements of example 15 wherein the scheduler module is configured to instigate the performance of the analysis sweeps by sending a sweep instigation message the sweep instigation message comprising information regarding the first parameter of the storage management policy.

This example includes the elements of example 16 wherein in response to the sweep instigation message the storage management module performs an analysis sweep on the first storage pool to determine usage information relevant to the first parameter.

This example includes the elements of example 16 wherein the sweep instigation message is sent from the scheduler module to the policy enforcement module wherein in response to receiving the sweep instigation message the policy enforcement module produces a modified sweep instigation message include information regarding the first parameter and sends the modified sweep instigation message to the storage management module.

This example includes the elements of example 16 wherein the scheduler module is configurable by the policy engine module by inputs received from a client user interface or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 19 wherein the policy enforcement module includes at least one scheduling parameter and is operable to configure the scheduler module to transmit the sweep instigation message in accordance with the scheduling parameter.

This example includes the elements of example 18 wherein in response to the modified sweep instigation message the storage management module performs an analysis sweep on the first storage pool to determine usage information relevant to the first parameter.

This example includes the elements of example 1 wherein the first storage pool is allocated to an initial instantiation of a first virtual machine and the storage management module is configured to manage the obsolete storage by deleting the initial instantiation of the first virtual machine designating at least a portion of the obsolete storage as unallocated free space producing a subsequent instantiation of the first virtual machine the subsequent instantiation being allocated a modified first storage pool that does not include at least part of the unallocated free space.

This example includes the elements of example 22 wherein the storage management module is further configured to reallocate at least part of the unallocated free space to the second data storage pool to reclaim at least part of the unallocated free space to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of any one of examples 1 to 5 and 11 to 23 wherein the first storage pool is allocated to a first virtual machine and the second storage pool is allocated to a second virtual machine wherein the storage management module manages the obsolete storage by deleting data contained in the obsolete storage to produce unallocated free space and a modified first storage pool not including the unallocated free space migrating the first virtual machine to a thinly provisioned storage space in the general cloud storage pool to produce a modified first virtual machine having the modified first storage pool allocated thereto and deleting the first virtual machine.

This example includes the elements of example 24 wherein the storage management module is further configured to reallocate at least a portion of the unallocated free space to the second storage pool to reclaim at least a portion of the unallocated free space to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 1 and further includes at least one server device comprising the policy enforcement module storage management module general cloud storage pool first storage pool the second storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 26 and further includes at least one client device comprising a client user interface module configured to interface with at least one of the policy enforcement module storage management module general cloud storage pool first storage pool and second storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 1 and further includes a cloud storage management device comprising the policy enforcement module and at least one server device comprising the storage management module general cloud storage pool first storage pool the second storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 1 wherein the first and second storage pools are allocated to first and second virtual machines respectively the cloud storage management system further includes a hypervisor comprising at least one of the policy enforcement module and the storage management module the hypervisor controlling at least one of the first and second storage pools.

In this example there is provided a method of managing cloud storage comprising at least a first storage pool and at least one general cloud storage pool the method including collecting usage information from the first storage pool the usage information indicative of the use of storage within the first storage pool determining whether any portion of the first storage pool is obsolete storage by evaluating the usage information against parameters specified by at least one policy governing the first storage pool if any portion of the first storage pool is obsolete storage managing the obsolete storage by reallocating at least a portion of the obsolete storage to a second storage pool allocated from the general could storage pool reclaiming at least a portion of the obsolete storage to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 30 wherein the at least one policy includes a service level agreement and the cloud storage is virtualized in accordance with the service level agreement into a plurality of storage pools including at least the first storage pool and the second storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 30 wherein the first storage pool is allocated to a first virtual machine and the second storage pool is allocated to a second virtual machine.

This example includes the elements of example 30 wherein the at least one policy governing the first storage pool includes a storage management policy the storage management policy comprising at least one first parameter for determining whether any portion of the first storage pool is obsolete storage wherein if the usage information indicates that the at least one first parameter is met for an analyzed portion of the first storage pool the method further includes designating the analyzed portion as obsolete storage.

This example includes the elements of example 33 wherein the at least one first parameter includes at least one of a free storage allocation threshold for the first storage pool a free storage buffer for the first storage pool an expiration date for storage of the first storage pool one or more indicator flags pertaining to data stored in the first storage pool a minimum dormant usage threshold for data stored in the first storage pool a threshold access limit for data stored in the first storage pool a cost savings threshold based on monetary savings achieved that may be achieved by management of the first storage pool authorship information pertaining to data stored in the first storage pool and combinations thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 33 and further includes enforcing at least one second parameter of the at least one policy to override a designation of at least a portion of the first storage pool as obsolete storage if the at least one second parameter is met.

This example includes the elements of example 35 wherein the at least one policy further includes a service level agreement governing the first storage pool and the at least one second parameter includes a service level agreement override to override the designation of at least a portion the first storage pool as obsolete managing the first storage pool would result in non compliance with one or more factors of the service level agreement.

This example includes the elements of example 36 wherein the one or more factors of the service level agreement include a minimum storage allocation for the first storage pool a minimum free storage threshold for the first storage pool and combinations thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 35 wherein the at least one second parameter includes a data importance override to override the designation of at least a portion the first storage pool as obsolete if management of the first storage pool would result in reclamation of storage containing data bearing an indicator of high importance reallocation of storage containing data bearing an indicator of high importance or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 35 wherein the at least one second parameter includes a cost savings override configured to override the designation of at least a portion of the first storage pool as obsolete if management of the first storage pool would fail to meet a predetermined cost savings threshold.

This example includes the elements of example 34 and further includes enforcing a third parameter of the at least one policy to control the manner in which obsolete storage of the first storage pool is managed.

This example includes the elements of example 40 wherein enforcement of the third parameter causes reallocation at least a portion of the obsolete storage to the second storage pool reclamation of at least a portion of the obsolete storage to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 40 wherein enforcement of the third parameter causes reallocation of at least a portion of the obsolete storage among a plurality of storage pools including at least the second storage pool and storage pools other than the second storage pool the method further comprising prioritizing reallocation of the obsolete storage to one or more of the second storage pool and the storage pools other than the second storage pool.

This example includes the elements of any one of examples 30 to 42 and further includes determining an impact of a proposed management of obsolete storage reporting the impact to a client user interface module and in response to a client affirmation message from the client interface module managing the obsolete storage in accordance with the proposed management.

This example includes the elements of example 43 wherein the collecting usage information includes performing an analysis sweep on the first storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 44 and further includes instigating the performance of the analysis sweep with a sweep instigation message the sweep instigation message comprising information regarding the at least one first parameter of the storage management policy.

This example includes the elements of example 45 wherein the collecting usage information includes performing the analysis sweep on the first storage pool to determine usage information relevant to the at least one first parameter.

This example includes the elements of example 44 and further includes scheduling the analysis sweep based on scheduling parameters of the at least one policy user inputs or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 30 wherein the first storage pool is allocated to an initial instantiation of a first virtual machine and the managing obsolete storage includes deleting the initial instantiation of the first virtual machine designating at least a portion of the obsolete storage as unallocated free space and producing a subsequent instantiation of the first virtual machine that is allocated a modified first storage pool that does not include at least part of the unallocated free space.

This example includes the elements of example 48 wherein managing the obsolete storage further includes reallocating at least part of the unallocated free space to the second data storage pool reclaiming at least part of the unallocated free space to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 49 wherein the first storage pool is allocated to a first virtual machine and the second storage pool is allocated to a second virtual machine wherein the managing obsolete storage includes deleting data contained in the obsolete storage to produce unallocated free space and a modified first storage pool not including the unallocated free space migrating the first virtual machine to a thinly provisioned storage space in the general cloud storage pool to produce a modified first virtual machine having the modified first storage pool allocated thereto and deleting the first virtual machine.

This example includes the elements of example 50 and further includes reallocating at least a portion of the unallocated free space to the second storage pool reclaiming at least a portion of the unallocated free space to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of any one of examples 30 to 42 and 48 to 51 wherein the cloud storage first storage pool second storage pool and at least one policy are hosted by at least one server device.

This example includes the elements of example 33 wherein the first and second storage pools are allocated to first and second virtual machines respectively and the method further includes enforcing the at least one policy with a hypervisor controlling at least one of the first and second storage pools.

According to this example there is provided at least one machine readable storage medium having stored thereon individually or in combination instructions that when executed by at least one processor result in the following operations including collecting usage information from a first storage pool of a cloud storage further comprising at least one general cloud storage pool the usage information indicative of the use of storage within the first storage pool determining whether any portion of the first storage pool is obsolete storage by evaluating the usage information against parameters specified by at least one policy governing the first storage pool if any portion of the first storage pool is obsolete storage managing the obsolete storage by reallocating at least a portion of the obsolete storage to a second storage pool allocated from the general could storage pool reclaiming at least a portion of the obsolete storage to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 54 wherein the at least one policy includes a service level agreement and the cloud storage is virtualized in accordance with the service level agreement into a plurality of storage pools including at least the first storage pool and the second storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 54 wherein the first storage pool is allocated to a first virtual machine and the second storage pool is allocated to a second virtual machine.

This example includes the elements of example 54 wherein the at least one policy governing the first storage pool includes a storage management policy the storage management policy comprising at least one first parameter for determining whether any portion of the first storage pool is obsolete storage wherein the instructions when executed further result in the following operations comprising designating the analyzed portion as obsolete storage if the usage information indicates that the at least one first parameter is met for an analyzed portion of the first storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 57 wherein the at least one first parameter includes at least one of a free storage allocation threshold for the first storage pool a free storage buffer for the first storage pool an expiration date for storage of the first storage pool one or more indicator flags pertaining to data stored in the first storage pool a minimum dormant usage threshold for data stored in the first storage pool a threshold access limit for data stored in the first storage pool a cost savings threshold based on monetary savings achieved that may be achieved by management of the first storage pool authorship information pertaining to data stored in the first storage pool and combinations thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 57 wherein the instructions when executed further result in the following operations comprising enforcing at least one second parameter of the at least one policy to override a designation of at least a portion of the first storage pool as obsolete storage if the at least one second parameter is met.

This example includes the elements of example 59 wherein the at least one policy further includes a service level agreement governing the first storage pool and the at least one second parameter includes a service level agreement override to override the designation of at least a portion the first storage pool as obsolete managing the first storage pool would result in non compliance with one or more factors of the service level agreement.

This example includes the elements of example 60 wherein the one or more factors of the service level agreement include a minimum storage allocation for the first storage pool a minimum free storage threshold for the first storage pool and combinations thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 35 wherein the at least one second parameter includes a data importance override to override the designation of at least a portion the first storage pool as obsolete if management of the first storage pool would result in reclamation of storage containing data bearing an indicator of high importance reallocation of storage containing data bearing an indicator of high importance or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 59 wherein the at least one second parameter includes a cost savings override configured to override the designation of at least a portion of the first storage pool as obsolete if management of the first storage pool would fail to meet a predetermined cost savings threshold.

This example includes the elements of example 58 wherein the instructions when executed further result in the following operations including enforcing a third parameter of the at least one policy to control the manner in which obsolete storage of the first storage pool is managed.

This example includes the elements of example 64 wherein enforcement of the third parameter causes reallocation at least a portion of the obsolete storage to the second storage pool reclamation of at least a portion of the obsolete storage to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 64 wherein enforcement of the third parameter causes reallocation of at least a portion of the obsolete storage among a plurality of storage pools including at least the second storage pool and storage pools other than the second storage pool the method further comprising prioritizing reallocation of the obsolete storage to one or more of the second storage pool and the storage pools other than the second storage pool.

This example includes the elements of any one of examples 54 to 66 wherein the instructions when executed further result in the following operations including determining an impact of a proposed management of obsolete storage reporting the impact to a client user interface module and in response to a client affirmation message from the client interface module managing the obsolete storage in accordance with the proposed management.

This example includes the elements of example 57 wherein the collecting usage information includes performing an analysis sweep on the first storage pool.

This example includes the elements of example 68 wherein the instructions when executed further result in the following operations comprising instigating the performance of the analysis sweep with a sweep instigation message the sweep instigation message comprising information regarding the at least one first parameter of the storage management policy.

This example includes the elements of example 69 wherein the collecting usage information includes performing the analysis sweep on the first storage pool to determine usage information relevant to the at least one first parameter.

This example includes the elements of example 68 and further includes scheduling the analysis sweep based on scheduling parameters of the at least one policy user inputs or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 54 wherein the first storage pool is allocated to an initial instantiation of a first virtual machine and the managing obsolete storage includes deleting the initial instantiation of the first virtual machine designating at least a portion of the obsolete storage as unallocated free space and producing a subsequent instantiation of the first virtual machine that is allocated a modified first storage pool that does not include at least part of the unallocated free space.

This example includes the elements of example 72 wherein managing the obsolete storage further includes reallocating at least part of the unallocated free space to the second data storage pool reclaiming at least part of the unallocated free space to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of example 73 wherein the first storage pool is allocated to a first virtual machine and the second storage pool is allocated to a second virtual machine and wherein the managing obsolete storage includes deleting data contained in the obsolete storage to produce unallocated free space and a modified first storage pool not including the unallocated free space migrating the first virtual machine to a thinly provisioned storage space in the general cloud storage pool to produce a modified first virtual machine having the modified first storage pool allocated thereto and deleting the first virtual machine.

This example includes the elements of example 74 wherein the managing obsolete storage further includes reallocating at least a portion of the unallocated free space to the second storage pool reclaiming at least a portion of the unallocated free space to the general cloud storage pool or a combination thereof.

This example includes the elements of any one of examples 54 to 66 and 68 to 75 wherein the cloud storage first storage pool second storage pool and at least one policy are hosted by at least one server device.

This example includes the elements of example 57 wherein the first and second storage pools are allocated to first and second virtual machines respectively and the instructions when executed further result in the following operations comprising enforcing the at least one policy with a hypervisor controlling at least one of the first and second storage pools.

According to this example there is provided a system arranged to perform the method of any one of examples 30 53.

According to this example there is provided a device including means to perform the method of any one of examples 30 53.

According to this example there is provided at least one machine readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device cause the computing device to perform the method according to any one of examples 30 53.

The terms and expressions which have been employed herein are used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof and it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the claims. Accordingly the claims are intended to cover all such equivalents. Various features aspects and embodiments have been described herein. The features aspects and embodiments are susceptible to combination with one another as well as to variation and modification as will be understood by those having skill in the art. The present disclosure should therefore be considered to encompass such combinations variations and modifications

