---

title: Systems and methods for providing meta-social graphs
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for providing a meta-social graph. In accordance with one implementation, a computerized method comprises collecting a plurality of different online identities of a first online user, each of the different online identities corresponding to a unique social network system. The method also includes collecting a plurality of communication data associated with the first user and determining bi-directional connections of the first user with other users from the collected communication data. In addition, the method may also include creating a meta-social graph from the determined bi-directional connections and the plurality of different online identities and generating a global identifier for the first user. The method also includes storing, in at least one memory device, the meta-social graph with at least one of the generated global identifier, the determined bi-directional connections, and the collected communication data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633376&OS=09633376&RS=09633376
owner: AOL Inc.
number: 09633376
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131028
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 719 900 filed Oct. 29 2012 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 794 730 filed Mar. 15 2013 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 798 118 filed Mar. 15 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 798 314 filed Mar. 15 2013. The disclosures of the above referenced applications are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to social graphs and computerized systems and methods for providing a meta social graph. More particularly and without limitation the present disclosure relates to systems and methods for presenting storing building sharing and managing meta social graphs to identify and present contextual information concerning connection paths.

Social networks allow individuals with similar interests or relationships to connect and communicate with one another. With the rise of Internet use and mobile computing virtual communities have emerged as popular forums to engage in social networking. Social networks are now supported by web based systems and software applications for various devices including computers laptops mobile phones and tablets. The availability of such technology and solutions enable users to easily connect and communicate with friends relatives colleagues business contacts and other users.

Users of social network systems and services who do not have a direct relationship with other users may nevertheless be linked to one another through intermediate entities. Such links or connections may be made based on personal business or other relationships between the users and the intermediate entities. For example a user A may be linked to a friend user B who uses the same social network system or service as user A. User B may have a business relationship and connection with user C who also uses the same social network system or service. As a result of these relationships user A may be linked to user C through user B.

Social networks and relationships between users may be tracked and maintained by a social network system or service. For this purpose users may register with a social network system or service create a profile and maintain a contact list or address book. A social network system or service may generate one or more graphs by observing which users communicate with one another and the direct or indirect links that exist between such users. Such social graphs may be represented by data that is organized and stored in a database or other storage medium.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to computerized systems and methods for providing a meta social graph. The meta social graph may comprise a social graph with enriched data about the nodes i.e. users and links or connections in the social graph. Embodiments of the present disclosure also encompass systems and methods for utilizing a meta social graph to provide for example promotional content to users.

In accordance with certain embodiments a computerized method is provided for providing a meta social graph. The method may include a plurality operations performed by at least one processor including collecting a plurality of different online identities of a first user each of said different online identities corresponding to a unique social network system. The method also includes collecting a plurality of communication data associated with the first user and determining bi directional connections of the first user from the collected communication data. Further the method includes creating a meta social graph from the determined bi directional connections and the plurality of different online identities of the first user and generating a global identifier for the first user. The method may include storing in at least one memory device the meta social graph with at least one of the generated global identifier determined bi directional connections and collected communication data.

In accordance with additional embodiments of the present disclosure a system is provided for building a meta social graph. The system may comprise at least one processor and a memory device that stores instructions which when executed by the at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform a plurality of operations including collecting a plurality of different online identities of a first user each of said different online identities corresponding to a unique social network system. The operations performed by the at least processor also include collecting a plurality of communication data associated with the plurality of different online identities of the first user and determining bi directional connections of the first user from the collected communication data. Further the operations performed by the at least one processor include creating a meta social graph from the determined bi directional connections and the plurality of different online identities of the first user and generating a global identifier for the first user. The operations performed by the at least one processor also include storing in at least one memory device the meta social graph with at least one of the generated global identifier determined bi directional connections and collected communication data.

In accordance with further embodiments of the present disclosure a computerized method is provided for providing promotional content to a first user. The method may include identifying the first user the identification being determined by retrieving a meta social graph and retrieving a first user profile from the retrieved meta social graph. The method also includes identifying a plurality of features from the first user profile to be promoted to the first user and identifying a plurality of influencers from the first user profile with the highest influencer score corresponding to the plurality of features to be promoted to the first user. In addition the method includes generating the promotional content based on the identified plurality of features and the plurality of influencers and electronically presenting the generated promotional content to the first user.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. Further the accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate embodiments of the present disclosure and together with the description serve to explain principles of the present disclosure.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In this application the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated otherwise. In this application the use of or means and or unless stated otherwise. Furthermore the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included is not limiting. In addition terms such as element or component encompass both elements and components comprising one unit and elements and components that comprise more than one subunit unless specifically stated otherwise. Additionally the section headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the subject matter described.

Generally the terms member user and entity are used interchangeably throughout this description. These terms however should not be seen as limited to a person. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment. Consequently these terms should be seen as encompassing any entity actual legal virtual or otherwise that uses a social network system.

Generally the term meta social graph refers to a social graph with enriched data about the nodes i.e. users and links or connections in the social graph. In addition to providing information about relationships between users a meta social graph may include data about a plurality of identities of a user a global identifier for that user across multiple social networks the strength of connections between that user and other users communication data and influencers for promotional content. The users represented in a meta social graph may be members of a plurality of different social networks and have unique identities with respect to each such network.

Generally the terms social network social networking system and social networking service are used interchangeably throughout this description. A social networking system such as a social networking website or service e.g. AIM Ask.fm Facebook LinkedIn MySpace Pinterest Twitter etc. enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity such as a person or company registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log onto the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct ID or username and password.

Consistent with the present disclosure when a user first registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record such as a user or member profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system. For example the user may provide his or her name contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in the user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers friends or contacts. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user profile and or organized in a contact list or address book.

Connections in social networking systems may be bi directional i.e. existing in both directions or unidirectional i.e. existing in just one direction . For example if John and Dave are both users and connect with each another John and Dave have a bi directional connection with each other. If on the other hand John wishes to connect to Sue to view Sue s posted content items but Sue does not choose to connect to John a unidirectional connection may be formed where Sue is John s connection but John is not Sue s connection.

With many social network services members are prompted to provide a variety of personal information which may be displayed in a member s personal web page. Such information may be stored as that user s personal profile information or profile information. It may be shown collectively and referred to as a member s profile. For example personal information may be requested and displayed as part of a member s profile including a member s age e.g. birth date gender contact information hometown address family members a photograph of the member interests and so forth. With certain social network services such as some business network services a member s personal information may include information commonly included in a professional resume or curriculum vitae such as information about a person s education employment history job skills professional organizations and so forth. With some social network services a member s profile may be viewable to the public by default or alternatively the member may specify that only some portion of the profile is to be public by default. In either case such social network service may serve as a directory of people to be searched and browsed.

Because social network services are a rich source of information about people social network services are an extremely useful tool when performing certain tasks. Each social network tends to have a particular focus for example professional photos location communication etc. From publically available information of a user profile or from the shared information of the user and the knowledge of the social network system focus embodiments of the present disclosure can learn who the user s influencers are in a particular area. Communication data may include but is not limited to the above types of information.

As shown in system environment may include one or more social graph server systems social network systems and user devices . All of these components of system environment may be disposed for communication with one another via an electronic network which may comprise any form or combination for supporting digital data communication. Examples of electronic network include a local area network LAN a wireless LAN e.g. a WiFi network a wireless Metropolitan Area Network MAN that connects multiple wireless LANs a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and a dial up connection e.g. using a V.90 protocol or a V.92 protocol . In the embodiments described herein the Internet may include any publicly accessible network or networks interconnected via one or more communication protocols including but not limited to hypertext transfer protocol HTTP and transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP . Moreover electronic network may also include one or more mobile device networks such as a 4G network LTE network GSM network or a PCS network that allow a user device to send and receive data via applicable communications protocols including those described above.

As will be described in more detail below in certain embodiments social graph server system may be configured to send and receive application programming interface API requests to and from social network system s for collecting communication data for purposes of providing a meta social graph and promotional content. An open graph may enable social graph server system to communicate with each social network system via an application programming interface API . Such an API may comprise an interface that supports requests from a software application. Further the API may be specified in terms of a programming language that can be interpretative or compiled when an application is built rather than an explicit low level description of how data is laid out in memory. The software that provides the functionality described by an API is an implementation of the API. An example of such an open graph solution is the Graph API that supports FQL queries for Facebook .

The exemplary system environment of may include one or more server systems databases and or computing systems configured to receive information from entities in a network process the information and communicate the information with other entities in the network. In certain embodiments the system of may be configured to receive data over an electronic network such as the Internet process analyze the content and provide the content to one or more applications. For example in one embodiment the system of may operate and or interact with one or more host servers one or more user devices and or one or more repositories for the purpose of associating all data elements and integrating them into for example content and advertising systems.

Further although system environment is illustrated in with a plurality of user devices in communication with social graph server system via network persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that environment may include any number of number of mobile or stationary user devices and any additional number of computers systems or servers without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosed embodiments. Further although computing environment is illustrated in with a single social graph server system and a plurality of social network systems persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that environment may include any number and combination of social graph servers and social network systems as well as any number of additional components including data repositories computers systems servers and server farms without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosed embodiments.

The various components of the system of may include an assembly of hardware software and or firmware including memory a central processing unit CPU and or a user interface. For example with respect to social graph server system memory may include any type of RAM or ROM embodied in a physical storage medium such as magnetic storage including floppy disk hard disk or magnetic tape semiconductor storage such as solid state disk SSD or flash memory optical disc storage or magneto optical disc storage. A CPU of social graph server system may include one or more processors for processing data according to a set of programmable instructions or software stored in memory. The functions of each processor may be provided by a single dedicated processor or by a plurality of processors. Moreover processors may include any type or combination of input output devices such as a display monitor keyboard touch screen and or mouse. Furthermore social graph server system may be implemented using one or more technologies such as JAVA Apache Tomcat Bus Architecture RabbitMQ MonoDB SOLR GridFS Jepetto etc.

As further shown in one or more databases data repositories may be provided that store data collected about each user including the user s social networks and or the meta social graph. Database may be part of social graph server system and or provided separately within system environment . Social graph server system and or system environment may also include a data store for storing the software and or instructions to be executed by one or more processors not illustrated in .

Social graph server system may be a computing device that provides information to one or more other components of computing environment . In one embodiment social graph server system may include a general purpose computer e.g. a personal computer network computer server or mainframe computer having one or more processors that may be selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program. In one aspect social graph server system may be configured to provide one or more websites associated with an advertiser and or content provider network. Further upon request from a user device e.g. user device social graph server system may be configured to provide information associated with a requested web page over communications network to user device which may render the received information and present the web page to a user. Social graph server system may be incorporated as a corresponding node in a distributed network and additionally or alternatively as a corresponding networked server in a cloud computing environment. Furthermore social graph server system may communicate via network with one or more additional servers not shown in which may facilitate the distribution of processes for parallel execution by the additional servers.

The system environment of and or the components thereof may also include any combination of email software instant messaging software document management software web hosting software and or any other software or set of instructions. Such software and or set of instructions may implement or support any number of the processes features and interfaces disclosed herein. In another embodiment the software may include a set of instructions executable by a processor to provide the methods features and interfaces described herein.

The above system components and software associated with may be used to implement various methods and processes consistent with the present disclosure such as the exemplary processes and features illustrated in .

Social graph server system may collect publicly available communication data of the user from social network systems step . In one embodiment social graph server system may collect communication data utilizing the online identities of the user collected as part of step . Each online identity of the user may be used to identify and gather relevant communication data. For example social graph server system collects John s friends from his AIM buddy list. In another example social graph server system may query a provided API to gather the relevant communication data. In still another example such relevant data may be identified by collecting the number of times the user was tagged in a photo with another user and or identifying frequent and or favorite locations visited by the user or friends of the user.

In step social graph server system may create a list of bi directional connections between a plurality of users. A bi directional connection may exist where there is at least one bi directional connection between the first user profile and a plurality of other users. In one embodiment the bi directional connections may be identified from the collected communication data step . For example John is friends with Dave on Facebook and the connection between John and Dave on Facebook is bi directional. In another embodiment social graph server system derives the bi directional connections between a plurality of users utilizing the collected communication data step . For example Sue is in John s Twitter graph and John is in Sue s Twitter graph. Therefore a bi directional connection between John and Sue exists In another embodiment social graph server system identifies and creates bi directional connections based on available data and identified relationships. For example assume John has a bi directional connection with Ashley and Ashley has a bi directional connection with Judson. While John is in Judson s graph Judson is not in John s graph. The social graph server system may analyze the communication data from John Ashley and Judson across different social network systems to determine that Judson is bi directionally connected to Ashley and has a single direction connection to John and therefore deduce that John and Judson have a bi directional connection.

The created bi directional connection list may be stored by social graph server system in memory and or a database . In one embodiment the bi directional connection list may be created in near real time as the communication data is received and or analyzed.

In a further embodiment social graph sever system may use the collected data of steps and and associate common data elements. Social graph server may correlate the common data elements across a plurality of social networks to combine for example a first user s Facebook profile with the same first user s Twitter profile where the first user only shared one of his or her online identities. Data elements include but not limited to first and or last name location occupation work employment high school college e mail address same friends etc. With this data social graph server system may identify people rather than only their online persona within social network s .

In step social graph server system may generate a global identifier for the first user. The global identifier may be unique to the first user and encompass the first user s plurality of online identities. The global identifier may consist of but not limited to any combination of alphanumeric characters symbols biometrics properties or photos. For example John could be assigned a global identifier of wd . In such a case the global identifier of wd for John may encompass for example John s AOL Facebook and Twitter accounts. In an embodiment the global identifier may not need to be the same as the online identifier for any specific social network. For example Ashley global identifier is and this identifier does not correspond to an AOL profile.

In another embodiment social graph server system may dynamically build a meta social graph for a first user based on existing social graphs. The social graph server system may build the meta social graph from connections between multiple users social graphs to determine relationships between social networks products and or users. Social graph server system may construct a meta social graph across different categories or focuses of social networks such as professional networks e.g. LinkedIn photo sharing networks e.g. Flickr location sharing networks e.g. FourSquare or communication networks e.g. Facebook . From each social network social graph server system may learn information about the user from public information or additional information that can be collected based on user consent such as name educational experience work experience date of birth hometown publications speaking engagements handle etc. In addition social graph server system may learn information about the primary user and other users such as the transaction rate between two people e.g. comments likes favorites mentions etc. .

Social graph server system may use the data to build a meta social graph that identifies people in addition to digital personas within a social network. For example a user Alice may be connected to two other users Bob and Mallory via Facebook and also connected to Bob via Flickr . Alice may know that Bob has both a Facebook and Flickr identity and that Mallory has a Facebook identity but may not know that Mallory has another identity in a different social network e.g. Flickr In turn a fourth user Eve may be connected to Mallory on both Facebook and Flickr . Social graph server system may determine that the Mallory persona that Eve is connected to in Flickr represents the same user that Alice is connected to on Facebook . Social graph server system may combine both of the Mallory digital personas into a single digital person even if Bob and Eve are not connected.

Social graph server system may track activities of users via their personas or online identities across multiple social networks. As a result social graph server system may determine the closest or most engaged people in an online environment. Using the data gathered on a user social graph server system may determine a higher quality or trusted influence for promotional content based on a user s most closely associated individuals or highest influence scores. Social graph server system may store the meta social graph created in step in a database . For example the meta social graph may be represented as a table in a database . In another embodiment the social graph server system may store in whole or part the meta social graph in memory .

Social graph server system may also be configured to identify by at least one processor a plurality of promotional features relevant to the user step . Social graph server system may group the features by subject in order to prevent unwanted or undesirable influencers on the features such as ensuring that a user s close connection in photography does not influence promotional content on computer security. In one embodiment social graph server system may use the meta social graph to highlight products or services a user is most likely to purchase based on the information garnered from the user the user s social networks the user s activities on the social networks and or the user s most engaged connections. For example social graph server system may display product reviews and or products liked by identified influencer s of the user. The identified influencer s may or may not be members of the user s meta social graph. In addition the identified influencer s may have a bi directional unidirectional or no connection to the user. For example influencer X may be ranked highly knowledgeable with respect to feature Y by friends or colleagues of the user and therefore social graph server system may identify feature Y as relevant to the user and may display influencer X and feature Y to the user even though there is no connection or only a unidirectional connection between the influencer X and the user. In another example social graph server system may display an advertisement to the user and display a group of influencers with the highest influencer score in proximity to the advertisement. Therefore social graph server system may provide more targeted advertising and product promotion.

In one embodiment social graph server system may determine and assign a sub score to each influencer corresponding to a promotional feature step . The social graph server system may calculate or derive the influencer s score by combining the influencer s sub scores corresponding with each promotional feature. In a further embodiment the social graph server system may apply a weighting factor for promotional features using the collected communication data. For example an influencer may receive a higher influencer score based on having a higher transaction rate with the user e.g. comments likes favorites twitter mentions etc. In another example an influencer may receive a higher influencer score for being tagged in more photos with the user or visiting a location often near the user s work or home.

In another embodiment social graph server system may determine influencers by features step . Features may be areas of interest to a user. These areas of interest may include products digital content businesses etc. In a further embodiment determining influencers by features step may include retrieving areas of interest to the user comparing those areas of interest with a plurality of influencers organizing the plurality of influencers by features corresponding to those areas of interest and or combining the sub category scores into a single influencer score. For example social graph server system may organize influencers into photography automobile music gaming and or professional groups. As a result influencers for example who liked commented and or mentioned photography products more often than automobile products may be grouped and subsequently identified more easily. Social graph server may use the number of likes comments and or mentions from the influencer to determine the influencer score related to that feature. Social graph server system may determine from the meta social graph which users are not using the services provided by social graph server system but who may be most likely to engage with the services in order to grow the network of users of social graph server system . In a further embodiment the social graph server system may track activities performed by members and match those activities with the user s social graph. Activities for example may include a user checking into FourSquare reposting an ad for a product tagging friends and a location in a photo following a business on multiple social networks and or sharing their social graphs with AOL . From this the social graph server system may be further configured to determine which connections are strongest and have the highest influence on the user staying for example with AOL . Further the social graph server system may determine a trusted or higher influence score by using techniques including but not limited to combining data layers omniture and behavior classification.

Social graph server system may be configured to generate promotional content to a user step . For example social graph server system may generate or identify several advertisements related to computer security cars photography and or music. For example advertisements may be identified by feature and or existing influencers with high scores in a particular area of interest to the user. In an embodiment social graph server system may further be configured to provide the promotional content to the user step . Social graph server system may display generated promotional content to the user device via a display or screen of that device. In another embodiment social graph server system may display the promotional content on a web page visited by the user. In a further embodiment social graph server system may provide an advertisement from a third party not shown . The third party may use an API provided by the social graph server system to have its advertisement or other promotional content e.g. sales offer discount enrollment opportunity etc. displayed to the user. Communication of the promotional content may also be achieved through the user s highest influencers corresponding to the promotional content. In one embodiment social graph server system may display the influencers profile with promotional content in various areas of the influencer s profile. By way of example using an influencer with a high score in automobiles social graph server may display automobile products or automobile product reviews to the user along with the profile of the relevant influencer for that content.

In step social graph server system may receive the communication data. For example social graph server may receive a list of friends of the user transaction data and rates between the user and a plurality of users e.g. comments likes favorites Twitter mentions photo tags location data etc. . Social graph server may determine in step the communication data contains new unidirectional and or bi directional connections of the user. In such cases as part of step social graph server system may be configured to update the bi directional connection list with the new deduce connections in view of the new unidirectional and or bi directional links. For example John followed Karen on Twitter and Karen followed John. Social graph server system may be configured to update the influencers and their scores step as a result of the updated bi directional connection list. In one embodiment the influencer and their scores are updated periodically. In another embodiment social graph server system may update the influencer and their scores in near real time. For example as social graph server system receives promotional content from a third party the social graph server system may update influencers their scores and categories in near real time to match the promotional feature.

In step social graph server system may update the meta social graph and store the same in memory step . In another embodiment social graph server system may store the updated meta social graph in a database step . Social graph server system may generate promotional content to the user step . In one embodiment social graph server system may generate promotional content with new influencers as a result of the updated meta social graph. For example John s new connection Karen may have the highest influencer score corresponding to photography. The social graph server system for example may update the generated promotional content to include photography and profile information for Karen.

Social graph server system may provide the generated promotional content in step to the user device . In one embodiment the promotional content may be provided as part of an application or a plug in. In another embodiment the promotional content may be provided on or through a website. In a further embodiment the promotional content may be provided to the user device as an advertisement or offer. In yet a further embodiment social graph server system may provide the promotional content to the social network system s . In step the provided promotional content may be displayed to the user on for example user device . For example a video advertisement may be displayed on user device showing a list of influencers following the promotional content.

As shown in social graph server system may deduce from the meta social graph depicted in that John is connected to Dave by virtue of their bidirectional Facebook relationship John is connected to Sue because Sue is in John s Twitter graph and John is in Sue s Twitter graph.

The foregoing description has been presented for purposes of illustration. It is not exhaustive and is not limiting to the precise forms or embodiments disclosed. Modifications and adaptations will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosed embodiments. For example systems and methods consistent with the disclosed embodiments may be implemented as a combination of hardware and software or in hardware alone. Examples of hardware include computing or processing systems including personal computers laptops mainframes micro processors and the like. Additionally although aspects are described for being stored in memory one skilled in the art will appreciate that these aspects can also be stored on other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices for example hard disks floppy disks or CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM.

Programmable instructions including computer programs based on the written description and disclosed embodiments are within the skill of an experienced developer. The various programs or program modules may be created using any of the techniques known to one skilled in the art or may be designed in connection with existing software. For example program sections or program modules may be designed in or by means of C Java C HTML XML CSS JavaScript or HTML with included Java applets. One or more of such software sections or modules may be integrated into a computer system or browser software or application.

In some embodiments disclosed herein some none or all of the logic for the above described techniques may be implemented as a computer program or application or as a plug in module or subcomponent of another application. The described techniques may be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided. In some embodiments applications may be developed for download to mobile communications and computing devices e.g. laptops mobile computers tablet computers smart phones etc. and made available for download by the user either directly from the device or through a website.

The foregoing description has been presented for purposes of illustration. It is not exhaustive and is not limiting to the precise forms or embodiments disclosed. Modifications and adaptations will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosed embodiments.

The claims are to be interpreted broadly based on the language employed in the claims and not limited to examples described in the present specification which examples are to be construed as non exclusive. Further the steps of the disclosed methods may be modified in any manner including by reordering steps and or inserting or deleting steps.

It is intended therefore that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only. Additional embodiments are within the purview of the present disclosure and sample claims.

