---

title: Expanded icon navigation
abstract: Aspects of expanded icon navigation are described. In one embodiment, one or more marked locations are registered, for example, as bookmarks, during navigation of network pages or files. A hierarchical structure of at least one location associated with the one or more marked locations is indexed to generate a marked zone hierarchy. Further, a collection of accessed locations is assembled according to traced access across the indexed hierarchical structure, network pages, or files. The access across the indexed hierarchical structure, network pages, or files may be traced over a period of time. In other aspects, the one or more marked locations are categorized among the collection of accessed locations to provide an assimilated set of locations, and one or more anchors are established. Further, at least one branch of the one or more anchors is populated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09575942&OS=09575942&RS=09575942
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09575942
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131114
---
Many internet browser applications provide a means for a user to bookmark network pages for quick and easy access or reference at a later time. In this context a user may be able to quickly refer to a list of saved bookmarks and select one for quick access to a network page. With the adoption of new types of computing devices and various sizes of capacitive touch display screens an arrangement of bookmarks may be displayed in various ways. For example rather than selecting a bookmark from an ordered list a bookmark may be selected from an arrangement of icons displayed on a screen.

In the overall context of bookmarks it is noted that an internet browser application may provide other means to assist users with organizing and highlighting network pages for quick reference. With the adoption of new types of computing devices and cross computing platform solutions however users may seek and expect additional assistance with the organization of information including information associated with quick and easy access to network pages.

The drawings illustrate only example embodiments and are therefore not to be considered limiting of the scope described herein as other equally effective embodiments are within the scope and spirit of this disclosure. The elements and features shown in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the embodiments. Additionally certain dimensions or positions of elements and features may be exaggerated to help visually convey certain principles. In the drawings similar reference numerals between figures designate like or corresponding but not necessarily the same elements.

Many internet browser applications provide a means for a user to bookmark network pages for quick and easy access or reference at a later time. In this context a user may be able to quickly refer to a list of saved bookmarks and select one for quick access to a network page. With the adoption of new types of computing devices and various sizes of capacitive touch display screens an arrangement of bookmarks may be displayed in various ways. For example rather than selecting a bookmark from an ordered list a bookmark may be selected from an arrangement of icons displayed on a screen.

In the overall context of bookmarks it is noted that an internet browser application may provide other means to assist users with organizing and highlighting network pages for quick reference. With the adoption of new types of computing devices and cross computing platform solutions however users may seek and expect additional assistance with the organization of information including information associated with quick and easy access to network pages.

For example a user may wish to review marked i.e. bookmarked selected tagged etc. locations e.g. network pages web pages file locations etc. in connection with a listing of locations accessed over time in an organized format. Further the user may wish to review marked locations in the context of an overall hierarchical structure from which the marked locations are accessed. Here it is noted that a network or web page may be accessed from a particular directory hosted by a website or network location. The overall directory structure of the website may provide key information related to other web pages or files of interest to a user. The user may wish to have a marked location displayed in the overall context of the hierarchical directory structure of the website that hosts the marked location. Additionally as a user browses or accesses network pages or locations it may be beneficial for the user to have an organized reference to a history of his or her access. Such a collection of accessed locations may be organized among marked locations and organized among a hierarchical structure from which the marked and accessed locations are hosted.

In this context aspects of expanded icon navigation are described. In one embodiment one or more marked locations are registered for example as bookmarks during navigation of network pages or files. A hierarchical structure of at least one location associated with the one or more marked locations is indexed to generate a marked zone hierarchy. Further a collection of accessed locations is assembled according to traced access across the indexed hierarchical structure network pages or files. The access across the indexed hierarchical structure network pages or files may be traced over a period of time. In other aspects the one or more marked locations are categorized among the collection of accessed locations to provide an assimilated set of locations and one or more anchors are established. Further at least one branch of the one or more anchors is populated based on the assimilated set of locations and the marked zone hierarchy and the anchors and associated branches are provided as a display for a user.

Referring to for example context an expanded icon navigation display page according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is illustrated. The display page is representative of a display provided by any suitable browser application such as an Internet browser for example. On the display page various anchors A B and C collectively anchors are illustrated. Each of the anchors is associated with a hierarchy of network pages or files posted by a particular network location. For example the anchor A is associated with the network location or host Sports.Site the anchor B is associated with the network location or host News.Site and the anchor C is associated with the network location or host Movies.Site.

Each of the anchors A B and C includes an expandable hierarchy A B and C collectively hierarchies respectively of network locations pages or files presented in an organized fashion. Particularly in one embodiment the network locations are presented in the context of an overall directory structure hierarchy provided or hosted by each of the Sports.Site News.Site and Movies.Site network locations respectively. As illustrated one or more ordinate superordinate or subordinate branches of the hierarchies may be expanded by the expanders to display various levels of hierarchical structure.

Based on a designated directory structure for example of the base network locations associated with the anchors the ordinate superordinate and subordinate branches of the hierarchies are provided with respective descriptors which are illustrated in bold and capital letters in . For example the hierarchy A of the anchor A includes the ordinate descriptors SPORTS BASEBALL and FOOTBALL and the subordinate descriptors COLLEGE and PRO of the ordinate descriptor FOOTBALL. The anchors B and C include similar descriptors for any ordinate superordinate and subordinate branches of the hierarchies B and C respectively. The hierarchical structures of various network locations and the indexing of hierarchical structures are discussed in further detail below.

As further illustrated in the anchor A includes marked locations A and accessed locations A. In general marked locations A may be representative of network locations pages or files marked and registered by a user. In this context the marked locations A are particularly designated by a user for registry as locations to be stored for easy reference in the future. Accessed locations A on the other hand may be representative of network locations pages or files accessed over time by a user. These accessed locations may be traced assembled and or stored as a collection of accessed locations. Here the accessed locations may be representative of locations which were accessed by a user over a period of time but not particularly designated by the user for registry. According to aspects described herein both marked and accessed locations are organized together according to or in the context of a framework of hierarchical structures defined by network hosts.

As also illustrated in the anchor B includes marked locations B and accessed locations B and the anchor C includes marked locations C and accessed locations C. The marked locations B and C are similar to the marked locations A collectively marked locations but are associated with the anchors B and C respectively. Further the accessed locations B and C are similar to the accessed locations A collectively accessed locations but are associated with the anchors B and C respectively.

In general marked locations A may be representative of network locations pages or files marked and registered by a user. In this context the marked locations A are particularly designated by a user for registry as locations to be stored for easy reference in the future. Accessed locations A on the other hand may be representative of network locations pages or files accessed over time by a user. These accessed locations may be traced assembled and or stored as a collection of accessed locations. Here the accessed locations may be representative of locations which were accessed by a user over a period of time but not particularly designated by the user for registry. According to aspects described herein both marked and accessed locations are organized together according to or in the context of a framework of hierarchical structures defined by network hosts.

The display page of also includes selectable display tabs . Using the display tabs the marked locations and or the accessed locations may be omitted from the anchors and the hierarchies of the anchors . It should be appreciated here that each of the items listed under the anchors is representative of a network location page or file and by clicking touching or selecting any of the items the network location page or file may be quickly accessed by a device as would be understood in the art.

In the following discussion below a general description of a system for expanded icon navigation and the generation of the display page is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

The computing environment may be embodied as a computer computing device or computing system. In certain embodiments the computing environment may include one or more computing devices arranged for example in one or more server or computer banks. The computing device or devices may be located at a single installation site or distributed among different geographical locations. As further described below in connection with the computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together embody a hosted computing resource a grid computing resource and or other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the provider computing environment may be embodied as an elastic computing resource where an allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources varies over time.

The computing environment may also be embodied in part as various functional e.g. computer readable instruction and or logic e.g. device circuit or processing circuit elements that may be executed by the computing environment to direct the computing environment to perform aspects of the embodiments described herein. As illustrated in the computing environment includes an expanded navigation data store and expanded icon navigation logic which are further described below.

In general the computing environment is configured to register one or more marked network locations pages or files for example as bookmarks during navigation of the network locations pages or files. The computing environment is further configured to index a hierarchical structure surrounding the network locations pages or files to generate a marked zone hierarchy. The computing environment may also be configured to trace a user s access of network locations pages or files over time. The user s access may be traced in some embodiments across the hierarchical structure of the marked zone hierarchy. By way of the traced access the computing environment assembles a collection of accessed locations as a history of the user s access. The computing environment may be further configured to categorize the one or more marked locations among the collection of accessed locations to provide an assimilated set of locations and establish one or more anchors. Further the computing environment may be configured to populate at least one branch of the one or more anchors based on the assimilated set of locations and the marked zone hierarchy.

The network may include the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks cable networks satellite networks other suitable networks or any combinations thereof. It is noted that the provider computing environment may communicate with the customer client device over various protocols such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP simple object access protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST real time transport protocol RTP real time streaming protocol RTSP real time messaging protocol RTMP user datagram protocol UDP internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP and or other protocols for communicating data over the network without limitation.

It is noted here that although not illustrated the network includes connections to any number of network hosts such as website servers file servers cloud computing resources databases data stores or any other network or computing architectures. In this context the client device may access any of the computing resources communicatively coupled to the network as would be understood in the art.

The client device is representative of one or a plurality of client devices of one or more users. The client device may be embodied as any processing circuit or processor based device or system including those embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a set top box a music or media player or a tablet computer among other example computing devices and systems. The client device may include various peripheral devices for example. In this context the peripheral devices may include input devices such as for example a keyboard keypad touch pad touch screen microphone scanner mouse joystick or one or more push buttons etc. The peripheral devices may also include a display indicator lights speakers etc. depending upon the primary use of the client device .

As illustrated in the client device may execute applications such as client application which is representative of one application that may be executed on the client device . In one embodiment the client application may be embodied as a browser application that interacts with the computing environment via the network . To this end the client application may be embodied as for example an available off the shelf hypertext based internet browser such as INTERNET EXPLORER sold by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. or MOZILLA FIREFOX which is promulgated by Mozilla Corporation of Mountain View Calif. another type of browser or a variant thereof without limitation. Alternatively the client application may be embodied as one or more other applications that interact with the computing environment using a suitable protocol via the network . Generally when executed in the client device the client application renders a webpage or similar user interface on a display of the client device .

According to certain aspects described herein the client application operates in concert with the expanded icon navigation logic of the computing environment . Particularly as a user of the client device navigates network locations accessible via the network the expanded icon navigation logic performs certain aspects of the embodiments described herein such as maintaining a registry of marked locations for the user indexing hierarchical structures associated with the marked locations for the user tracing access across the hierarchical structures over time for the user categorizing the marked locations among accessed locations for the user establishing anchors and populating branches of anchors. In this context the expanded icon navigation logic may store data in the expanded navigation data store which may be accessed by a network browser of any client device for the user and a display of anchors and associated marked locations accessed locations and hierarchical structures associated with the anchors may be displayed for the user on any client device having access to the network and the computing environment . In this context a user may obtain access to his or her particular display of anchors and associated information by providing a username and or password as would be understood in the art.

Next a more detailed description of the operation of the computing environment in the networked environment is provided with reference again to . Here it may be assumed among various examples described herein that a user of the client device manipulates the client application to browse the network in connection with the computing environment .

In various embodiments the expanded icon navigation logic of the computing environment may facilitate users by arranging network locations pages or files in an organized manner according to a hierarchy structure e.g. directory structure etc. associated with network hosts which host the network locations pages or files.

In this context the expanded icon navigation logic may include one or more logic elements that perform or embody various aspects of the features described herein. For example as illustrated in the expanded icon navigation logic includes a marked location cataloger an access tracker a hierarchy indexer a location categorizer and an anchor and branch establisher .

The marked location cataloger registers one or more marked locations for a user. The marked locations may be registered in the marked location data store . That is for any network location page or file marked or designated by a user to be marked for later access the marked location cataloger stores or registers a mark or bookmark for example in association with the location page or file identified by the user.

The access tracker traces a user s access across network locations pages or files accessed via the network over time. The access tracker may trace a user s access across the network generally or in connection with or in relation to locations marked and registered by the user. In other words the access tracker may generally trace a user s access across the network i.e. general access history or the access tracker may only trace a user s access across network locations pages or files associated with locations marked for registry by the user e.g. access history surrounding marked locations . In some embodiments after a hierarchical structure surrounding a marked location is identified and indexed by the hierarchy indexer the access tracker may trace a user s access across the hierarchical structure of the marked location. In any case the access tracker assembles a collection of accessed locations and stores the collection of accessed locations in the accessed location data store .

The hierarchy indexer indexes a hierarchical structure of at least one location associated with one or more marked locations registered by the user to generate a marked zone hierarchy. In various embodiments the marked zone hierarchy may include at least one ordinate superordinate or subordinate location. In this context a hierarchy may be identified by the hierarchy indexer based on a directory or file structure relied upon by a network host. For example with reference to the marked network location titled New Phone a Flop see anchor B News.Site would be identified by the hierarchy indexer as being placed at a directory or network location identified as TECH for the News.Site network host. At the same time the hierarchy indexer may identify the directory or network locations WORLD and US of the News.Site network host. To identify a hierarchical structure the hierarchy indexer may index or crawl among ordinate superordinate and subordinate directory file or other organizational structures relied upon by network hosts. These hierarchical structures may be stored by the hierarchy indexer in the hierarchy data store .

It is noted here that the hierarchy indexer may index a hierarchical structure of accessed locations in addition to marked locations. That is the hierarchy indexer may index a directory structure of network hosts which were accessed by a user to generate an accessed zone hierarchy although the user may not have marked any network locations pages or files for registry. As for the hierarchies illustrated in the hierarchies may be representative of a combination of marked zone and accessed zone hierarchies among embodiments.

The location categorizer categorizes one or more marked locations among a collection of accessed locations to provide an assimilated or combined set of locations. Particularly the location categorizer categorizes one or more locations marked by the marked location cataloger with locations traced by the access tracker and generates an assimilated or combined set of locations. In general locations may be assimilated or combined in an organized fashion for example based on a base or common network host of the locations.

The anchor and branch establisher establishes marked location anchors associated with one or more marked locations in preparation for a display of anchors associated with network hosts of marked locations. In certain embodiments the anchor and branch establisher may establish accessed location anchors associated with one or more accessed locations. The anchor and branch establisher further populates one or more branches of marked or accessed location anchors based on information stored in the expanded navigation data store .

For example for a marked location of a network host branches of an anchor associated with the marked location may be populated based on hierarchical structures of the network host as determined by the hierarchy indexer and stored in the hierarchy data store . Further the anchor and branch establisher may organize both marked and accessed locations among the branches of the anchors based on any assimilated i.e. combined marked and accessed locations associated with the network host. In essence the anchor and branch establisher prepares the organizational structures required for display of the anchors as illustrated in the display in .

Based on the processes of the expanded icon navigation logic described above the expanded icon navigation logic may display an organized structure of network locations pages or files for quick reference by a user. In various embodiments the display may include a combination of marked and accessed locations registered and accessed over time in addition to a hierarchical structure of directories or file structures relied upon by network hosts.

Referring next to an example expanded icon navigation process performed by the computing environment of according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is illustrated. It should be appreciated that that the flowchart of provides merely one example of various functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operations of the computing environment as described herein. In certain aspects the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example group of steps performed by the computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

At reference numeral the process includes registering a marked location. For example as discussed above in connection with a user of the client device may mark a network location page or file for registry as a marked location and the marked location cataloger may store data associated with the location as a mark or bookmark in the marked location data store .

At reference numeral the process includes indexing a hierarchical structure of at least one location associated with the marked location to generate a marked zone hierarchy. Here the hierarchy indexer may index a hierarchical structure of the location marked at reference numeral for example to generate a marked zone hierarchy. Further the hierarchical structure may be stored in the hierarchy data store . In certain embodiments the marked zone hierarchy may include at least one ordinate superordinate or subordinate location.

At reference numeral the process includes tracing a user s access across network locations pages or files over time to assemble a collection of accessed locations or a general access history. In other words at reference numeral the process may include tracing a user s access across any location to assemble a collection of accessed locations. Tracing access at reference numeral may be performed for example by the access tracer and the collection of accessed locations may be stored in the accessed location data store . At reference numeral the process may further include tracing a user s access across the hierarchical structure indexed at reference numeral to assemble a collection of accessed locations surrounding marked locations. Again tracing access at reference numeral may be performed for example by the access tracer .

In certain embodiments the locations accessed at reference numeral and or may be indexed to determine or generate an accessed zone hierarchy. For example the processes performed at reference numeral may be additionally performed in connection with the locations traced at reference numerals and or .

At reference numeral the process includes categorizing the marked location among the collection or collections of accessed locations to provide an assimilated set of locations. For example the categorizing may be performed by the location categorizer and stored at a suitable location in the expanded navigation data store as necessary. It is noted that at reference numeral the process includes collecting marked and accessed locations together in a single group generally in association with a single network host so that the locations may be paired or associated with an anchor for the network host.

At reference numeral the process includes establishing one or more marked location and or accessed location anchors associated with the one or more marked locations registered at reference numeral and or the one or more locations traced at reference numerals and or . With reference to for example the anchors may be established by the anchor and branch establisher . In one embodiment each anchor is associated with a respective network host such as the Sports.Site News.Site and Movies.Site network hosts illustrated in . While certain icons are illustrated for each of the anchors is noted that the icons in are merely representative any suitable form of icon or anchor may be relied upon among the embodiments described herein.

At reference numeral the process includes populating at least one branch of the anchors established at reference numeral . The population of branches at reference numeral may be based upon the marked zone or accessed zone hierarchical structures indexed at reference numeral the locations marked at reference numeral and the accessed locations traced at reference numerals and or for example. The branches may be populated with titles of network locations pages or files accessed and links or direct or indirect references for example to the network locations pages or files may be populated among the branches. With reference to for example context the anchor and branch establisher may perform the processes at reference numeral .

At reference numeral the process includes displaying the anchors established at reference numeral and populated at reference numeral . Generally the expanded icon navigation logic of the computing environment in may generate a suitable network page to be displayed or rendered on the client device in response to a user s request for a listing of bookmarks for example. The network page once rendered may be similar to the display in although it is noted that the display may include additional or fewer anchors depending upon the number of network locations marked for registry and the length of history of the user s accessed locations among other factors.

In other aspects of the embodiments described herein a display of anchors may be organized in various fashions. For example at reference numeral the process may include receiving a selection of a composition of a display of anchors and a display of anchors may be generated accordingly.

With regard to various displays or compositions of displays of anchors illustrates a marked location navigation display page generated by the computing environment of the according to aspects of the present disclosure. In a selection of the Marked tab is received by the computing environment . In this case a display page is generated in which each of the anchors in includes a display of the marked locations and the hierarchies but omits the accessed locations .

As another example illustrates an accessed location navigation display page generated by the computing environment of the according to aspects of the present disclosure. In a selection of the Accessed tab is received by the computing environment . In this case a display page is generated in which each of the anchors in includes a display of the accessed locations and the hierarchies but omits the marked locations . Finally illustrates a hierarchy navigation display page generated by the computing environment of the according to aspects of the present disclosure. In a selection of the Hierarchy tab is received by the computing environment . In this case a display page is generated in which each of the anchors in includes a display of the hierarchies but omits the marked locations and the accessed locations .

According to the example displays and of respectively it should be appreciated that the organization of branches and populated titles of anchors may be varied depending upon the information desired by a user. In general according to the features of the embodiments described herein various network locations pages and files may be organized in a hierarchical structure or easy reference at a later time. With reference to the organization provided by the anchors a user may quickly access network locations pages or files.

In various embodiments the memory stores data and software or executable code components executable by the processor . For example the memory may store executable code components associated with expanded icon navigation for execution by the processor . The memory may also store data such as that stored in the expanded navigation data store among other data.

It should be understood and appreciated that the memory may store other executable code components for execution by the processor . For example an operating system may be stored in the memory for execution by the processor . Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C JAVA JAVASCRIPT Perl PHP VISUAL BASIC PYTHON RUBY FLASH or other programming languages.

As discussed above in various embodiments the memory stores software for execution by the processor . In this respect the terms executable or for execution refer to software forms that can ultimately be run or executed by the processor whether in source object machine or other form. Examples of executable programs include for example a compiled program that can be translated into a machine code format and loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor source code that can be expressed in an object code format and loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that can be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic or other hard disk drive solid state semiconductor or similar drive universal serial bus USB flash drive memory card optical disc e.g. compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory component.

In various embodiments the memory may include both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may include for example a RAM ROM magnetic or other hard disk drive solid state semiconductor or similar drive USB flash drive memory card accessed via a memory card reader floppy disk accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical disc accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tape accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory component or any combination thereof. In addition the RAM may include for example a static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and or other similar memory device. The ROM may include for example a programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other similar memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel respectively or in combination. Thus the local interface may be an appropriate network or bus that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may include additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example a load balancer that performs load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

As discussed above the expanded icon navigation logic may be embodied in part by software or executable code components for execution by general purpose hardware. Alternatively the same may be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general specific and or dedicated purpose hardware. If embodied in such hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine for example that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart or process diagram of is representative of certain processes functionality and operations of embodiments discussed herein. Each block may represent one or a combination of steps or executions in a process. Alternatively or additionally each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that includes program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that includes human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that includes numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as the processor . The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. Further each block may represent or be connected with a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement a certain logical function or process step.

Although the flowchart or process diagram of . illustrates a specific order it is understood that the order may differ from that which is depicted. For example an order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the expanded icon navigation logic that are embodied at least in part by software or executable code components may be embodied or stored in any tangible or non transitory computer readable medium or device for execution by an instruction execution system such as a general purpose processor. In this sense the logic may be embodied as for example software or executable code components that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. Thus the instruction execution system may be directed by execution of the instructions to perform certain processes such as those illustrated in . In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any tangible medium that can contain store or maintain any logic application software or executable code component described herein for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can include any physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of suitable computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may include a RAM including for example an SRAM DRAM or MRAM. In addition the computer readable medium may include a ROM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM or other similar memory device.

Although embodiments have been described herein in detail the descriptions are by way of example. The features of the embodiments described herein are representative and in alternative embodiments certain features and elements may be added or omitted. Additionally modifications to aspects of the embodiments described herein may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention defined in the following claims the scope of which are to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass modifications and equivalent structures.

