---

title: Process for desulfurizing petroleum feedstocks
abstract: A process for upgrading an oil feedstock includes reacting the oil feedstock with a quantity of an alkali metal, wherein the reaction produces solid materials and liquid materials. The solid materials are separated from the liquid materials. The solid materials may be washed and heat treated by heating the materials to a temperature above 400° C. The heat treating occurs in an atmosphere that has low oxygen and water content. Once heat treated, the solid materials are added to a solution comprising a polar solvent, where sulfide, hydrogen sulfide or polysulfide anions dissolve. The solution comprising polar solvent is then added to an electrolytic cell, which during operation, produces alkali metal and sulfur.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08747660&OS=08747660&RS=08747660
owner: Ceramatec, Inc.
number: 08747660
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130130
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 594 846 filed Feb. 3 2012. This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 916 984 filed Nov. 1 2010 entitled UPGRADING OF PETROLEUM OIL FEEDSTOCKS USING ALKALI METALS AND HYDROCARBONS which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 257 369 filed Nov. 2 2009 entitled UPGRADING OF PETROLEUM OIL FEEDSTOCKS USING ALKALI METALS AND HYDROCARBONS . All of these prior patent applications are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FE0000408 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a process for removing nitrogen sulfur and heavy metals from sulfur nitrogen and metal bearing shale oil bitumen or heavy oil. More particularly the invention relates to a method of regenerating alkali metals and sulfur from sulfides and polysulfides that were obtained from the sulfur nitrogen and metal bearing shale oil bitumen or heavy oil.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 916 984 which has been incorporated herein by reference has been published as United States Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0100874. The reader is presumed to be familiar with the disclosure of this published application. This published application will be referred to herein as the 874 application. 

U.S. Pat. No. 8 088 270 which is expressly incorporated herein by reference relates to a Process For Recovering Alkali Metals And Sulfur From Alkali Metal Sulfides And PolySulfides. The reader is presumed to be familiar with the disclosure of this published patent. This published patent will be referred to herein as the 270 patent. 

The demand for energy and the hydrocarbons from which that energy is derived is continually rising. The hydrocarbon raw materials used to provide this energy however can contain difficult to remove sulfur and metals that hinder their usage. Sulfur can cause air pollution and can poison catalysts designed to remove hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxide from motor vehicle exhaust. Similarly other heavy metals contained in the hydrocarbon stream can poison catalysts typically utilized for removal of sulfur.

Extensive reserves of shale oil exist in the U.S. that will increasingly play a role in meeting U.S. energy needs. Over 1 trillion barrels reserves lay in a relatively small area known as the Green River Formation located in Colorado Utah and Wyoming. As the price of crude oil rises these shale oil resources become more attractive. However technical issues surrounding this shale oil remain to be solved. For example this shale oil has a relatively high amount of nitrogen contained therein in addition to high levels of heavy metals and sulfur . Shale oil characteristically is high in nitrogen sulfur and heavy metals which makes subsequent hydrotreating difficult. According to America s Strategic Unconventional Fuels Vol. III Resource and Technology Profiles p. 111 25 nitrogen is typically around 2 and sulfur around 1 in most samples of shale oil Heavy metals are also present. Heavy metals contained in shale oil pose a large problem to upgraders trying to upgrade this shale oil for commercial use. For example sulfur and nitrogen typically are removed from the shale oil via hydrotreating at elevated temperatures and pressures using catalysts such as Co Mo AlOor Ni Mo AlO. However such catalysts are deactivated poisoned by the presence of heavy metals as the heavy metals operate to mask the catalysts.

Another example of a source of hydrocarbon fuel where the removal of sulfur poses a problem is in bitumen existing in ample quantities in Alberta Canada and heavy oils such as in Venezuela. In order to remove sufficient sulfur from the bitumen for it to be useful as an energy resource excessive hydrogen must be introduced under extreme conditions which creates an inefficient and economically undesirable process.

Over the last several years sodium has been recognized as being effective for the treatment of high sulfur petroleum oil distillate crude heavy oil bitumen and shale oil. Sodium is capable of reacting with the oil and its contaminants to dramatically reduce the sulfur nitrogen and metal content through the formation of sodium sulfide compounds sulfide polysulfide and hydrosulfide . Examples of the processes can be seen in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 785 965 3 787 315 3 788 978 4 076 613 5 695 632 5 935 421 and 6 210 564. This process is further described in the 874 application.

When shale oil heavy oil or bitumen or other oil feedstock is reacted with the alkali metals this reaction occurs generally at a temperature between 150 450 C. This reaction is also performed at a pressure that is anywhere between atmospheric pressure and 2000 psi. For example 2 moles alkali metal and 1 mole hydrogen H may be needed per mole sulfur according to the following initial reaction R S R 2M H R H R H MS 

Where M is an alkali metal such as sodium or lithium and 3 moles alkali metal and 1.5 moles hydrogen H may be needed per mole nitrogen according to the following initial reaction R R R N 3M 1.5H R H R H R H MN Alternatively the 874 application describes a method of upgrading an oil feedstock such as heavy oil shale oil bitumen etc. by combining the oil feedstock with an alkali metal and an upgradant hydrocarbon material. This reaction operates to remove the sulfur nitrogen and or heavy metals contained within the oil feedstock.

It should also be noted that heavy metals contained in the shale oil may also be removed via the use of alkali metals such as sodium. Heavy metals contained in organometallic molecules such as complex porphyrins are reduced to the metallic state by the alkali metal. Once the heavy metals have been reduced they can be separated from the oil because they no longer are chemically bonded to the organic structure. In addition once the metals are removed from the porphyrin structure the nitrogen heteroatoms in the structure are exposed for further denitrogenation.

The following is a summary of the reaction of shale oil bitumen and or other oil hydrocarbons when they are reacted with alkali metals such as lithium or sodium. Liquid phase alkali metal is brought into contact with the organic molecules containing heteroatoms and metals in the presence of hydrogen methane and also gases such as nitrogen or inert gases such as helium neon argon krypton xenon and radon . The free energy of reaction with organic sulfur organic nitrogen and organic heavy metals is stronger with alkali metals than with hydrogen so the reaction more readily occurs without full saturation of the organics with hydrogen. Hydrogen is generally used in the reaction to cap broken bonds previously attached to heteroatoms and metals prevent carbon carbon bonds from forming or coking. Once the alkali metal compounds are formed and heavy metals are reduced to their metallic states it is necessary to separate these products from the hydrocarbon materials. A gravimetric separation such as centrifugation or filtering can separate the organic upgraded oil from the salt phase metallic phase and organic solids which may be formed.

Once the alkali metal sulfide has been separated from the oil sulfur and metals are substantially removed and nitrogen is moderately removed. Also both viscosity and density are reduced while the API gravity is increased. Bitumen or heavy oil would be considered synthetic crude oil SCO and can be shipped via pipeline for further refining. Similarly shale oil will have been considerably upgraded after such processing. Subsequent refining will be easier since the troublesome metals have been removed.

Although the effectiveness of the use of alkali metals such as sodium in the removal of sulfur has been demonstrated the process is not commercially practiced because a practical cost effective method to regenerate the alkali metal has not yet heretofore been proposed. Several researchers have proposed the regeneration of sodium using an electrolytic cell which uses a sodium ion conductive beta alumina membrane. Beta alumina however is both expensive and fragile and no significant metal production utilizes beta alumina as a membrane separator. Further the cell utilizes a sulfur anode which results in high polarization of the cell causing excessive specific energy requirements.

Metallic sodium is commercially produced almost exclusively in a Downs cell such as the cell described in U.S. Pat. No. 1 501 756. Such cells electrolyze sodium chloride that is dissolved in a molten salt electrolyte to form molten sodium at the cathode and chlorine gas at the anode. The cells operate at a temperature near 600 C. a temperature compatible with the electrolyte used. Unlike the sulfur anode the chlorine anode is utilized commercially both with molten salts as in the co production of sodium and with saline solution as in the co production of sodium hydroxide.

Another cell technology that is capable of producing sodium metal at a temperature of less than 200 C. has been disclosed by Jacobsen et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 6 787 019 and Thompson et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 6 368 486. In those disclosures low temperature co electrolyte is utilized with the alkali halide to form a low temperature melting electrolyte.

Accordingly the present embodiments are designed to provide a cost effective and efficient method for the regeneration of alkali metals used in the desulfurization denitrogenation and demetallation of hydrocarbon streams. As will be described herein the present invention is able to remove contaminants and separate out unwanted material products from desulfurization denitrogenation demetallation reactions and then recover those materials for later use.

The present embodiments relate to a denitrogenation and desulfurization technology that is insensitive to the heavy metal content and at the same time demetallizes very effectively. The deep demetallization provides an enormous benefit because additional hydrotreating processes will not be affected by the metals originally contained in the shale oil and tar sands.

The present embodiments provide a process for removing nitrogen sulfur and heavy metals from sulfur nitrogen and metal bearing petroleum feedstocks such as shale oil bitumen coker diesel or heavy oil. The present embodiments further provide an electrolytic process of regenerating alkali metals from sulfides polysulfides nitrides and polynitrides of those metals. The present embodiments further provide an electrolytic process of removing sulfur from a polysulfide solution.

One non limiting embodiment within the scope of the invention includes a process for oxidizing alkali metal polysulfides electrochemically. The process utilizes an electrolytic cell having an alkali ion conductive membrane configured to selectively transport alkali ions the membrane separating an anolyte compartment configured with an anode and a catholyte compartment configured with a cathode. An anolyte is introduced into the anolyte compartment. The anolyte includes an alkali metal sulfide species and an anolyte solvent that dissolves alkali metal sulfide species. A catholyte is introduced into the catholyte compartment. The catholyte may be comprised of molten alkali metal or may include alkali metal ions and a catholyte solvent. The catholyte solvent may include one of many non aqueous solvents such as tetraglyme diglyme dimethyl carbonate dimethoxy ether propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate diethyl carbonate. The catholyte may also include an alkali metal salt such as an iodide or chloride of the alkali metal. Applying an electric current to the electrolytic cell oxidizes sulfur in the anolyte compartment to form elemental sulfur causes alkali metal ions to pass through the alkali ion conductive membrane from the anolyte compartment to the catholyte compartment and reduces the alkali metal ions in the catholyte compartment to form elemental alkali metal.

Sulfur has higher specific gravity than the anolyte and is easily separated from the anolyte by gravimetric means centrifugal separation or may be recovered by removing a portion of the anolyte solution from the anolyte compartment cooling the removed anolyte solution to precipitate solid phase sulfur from the anolyte solution separating the precipitated sulfur from the anolyte solution. In the preferred embodiment the cell is operated at 115 C. or greater such that the sulfur formed at the anode is in the liquid phase. If the alkali metal is sodium then the sodium formed at the cathode is also liquid phase.

By operating the cell at a temperature below the melting temperature of the alkali metal e.g. if for example if the alkali metal is lithium elemental alkali metal will plate onto the cathode. The cathode may be periodically withdrawn from the catholyte compartment to remove the alkali metal. Alternatively in one embodiment within the scope of the invention the cathode may be configured as a flexible band which continuously or semi continuously loops from inside the catholyte compartment to outside the catholyte compartment and electrolytic cell housing enabling the alkali metal to be continuously scraped or removed from the cathode.

The present embodiments of the present invention will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout. It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the methods and cells of the present invention as represented in the Figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of present embodiments of the invention.

The overall process is shown schematically in of one non limiting embodiment for removing nitrogen sulfur and heavy metals from sulfur nitrogen and metal bearing oil sources using an alkali metal and for regenerating the alkali metal. In the process of an oil source such as high sulfur petroleum oil distillate crude heavy oil bitumen or shale oil is introduced into a reaction vessel . As described above this oil source may have heavy metals sulfur and or nitrogen containing compounds within the oil feedstock . An alkali metal M such as sodium or lithium is also introduced into the reaction vessel together with a quantity of hydrogen gas or other gas which may cap the radicals formed when the bonds with heteroatoms and metals are broken. The alkali metal and hydrogen react with the oil source and its contaminants to dramatically reduce the sulfur nitrogen and metal content through the formation of sodium sulfide compounds sulfide polysulfide and hydrosulfide and sodium nitride compounds.

The alkali metal M and hydrogen react with the oil at about 300 400 C. and 300 2000 psi according to the following initial reactions R S R 2M H2 R H R H M2S and R R R N 3MNa 1.5H2 R H R H R H MNa3N

Where M is an alkali metal such as sodium or lithium and where R R R represent portions of organic molecules or organic rings.

Solids from the reaction of alkali metal with petroleum feedstocks may be separated in numerous ways including gravimetric centrifugal methods and filtering. Such separation of the solids may be conducted within a separator . The upgraded oil product which has reduced amounts of heavy metals sulfur and nitrogen containing compounds may be obtained from the separator .

The solids may be washed with a light petroleum substance such as hexane heptane toluene or mixtures of these substances or natural gas condensate other hydrocarbon liquids or the like to remove adhered liquid product. The light petroleum substance may be stripped away by distillation for example to leave behind product liquid that is re added to the upgraded oil. The light petroleum substance may be reused for further washing of solids.

Solids separated from the petroleum reacted with alkali metal typically are a mixture of organic and inorganic constituents. To facilitate separation of the organic from inorganic and to prevent adverse reactions and resistive coating of electrodes and membranes the solids may be treated by heating in the substantial absence of oxygen or water. Such heating may occur for example under the presence of nitrogen or hydrocarbon gases such as methane. Such heating may involve heating to a temperature above 400 C. and preferably above 500 C. During this heating process light gases are formed and may be recovered. These gases may be for example methane or other hydrocarbons. This heating process may be referred to as heat treating .

Following this heat treating process and subsequent cooling the alkali metal sulfides found in the solid materials may be dissolved in solvent such as formamide methyl formamide dimethyl formamide acetamide methyl acetamide dimethyl acetamide ethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 2 ethanediol 1 2 propanediol propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate diethyl carbonate N methylpyrrolidone tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether tetralglyme acetonitrile dimethyl sulfoxide liquid ammonia methyl amine or 1 3 Dimethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrahydro 2 1H pyrimidinone DMPU or combinations of the above. Once dissolved any undissolved portion of solids may be removed by filtration or centrifugal means. These undissolved solids may be rich with metals that were originally in the petroleum feedstock. The dissolved sulfides may be fed into the anolyte compartment of the electrolytic cell.

The solid material dissolved in the solvent which includes the alkali metal sulfides hydrogen sulfides or polysulfides as shown by arrow may be further processed in an electrolytic cell to remove and recover sulfur and to remove and recover the alkali metal. One example of this type of electrolytic cell is shown in . 

The electrolytic cell receives a solution of the alkali sulfide or polysulfide in a solvent such as formamide methyl formamide dimethyl formamide acetamide methyl acetamide dimethyl acetamide ethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 2 ethanediol 1 2 propanediol propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate diethyl carbonate N methylpyrrolidone tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether tetralglyme acetonitrile dimethyl sulfoxide liquid ammonia methyl amine or 1 3 Dimethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrahydro 2 1H pyrimidinone DMPU or combinations of the above. Under the influence of a source electric power alkali metal ions are reduced to form the alkali metal M which may be recovered and used as a source of alkali metal . Sulfur is also recovered from the process of the electrolytic cell . A detailed discussion of one possible electrolytic cell that may be used in the process within the scope of the present invention is described in conjunction with and .

It should be noted that the treatment of the solid material by heating before dissolving in the polar solvent may be beneficial to the overall process for upgrading the petroleum product. If this heat treating of the solid is not performed when the materials are added to the electrolytic cell the electrolytic cell will ultimately be gummed up or failed. Specifically organic materials that are present in the materials if not removed via heat treating will be deposited on the electrodes thereby causing the electrodes to fail. However by heating the solids in the manner described above the organic materials that would normally fail the electrodes are removed such as through conversion into methane or another gaseous product . Thus by heat treating the solids in the manner outlined herein significant advantages may be obtained.

As shown in electrolytic cell housing is constructed to enclose a liquid solvent mixture. The material of construction preferably is an electrically insulative material such as most polymers. The material also is preferably chemically resistant to solvents. Polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE is particularly suitable as well as Kynar which is a commercially available synthetic resin polyvinylidene fluoride or high density polyethylene HDPE . The cell housing may also be fabricated from a non insulative material and non chemically resistant materials provided the interior of the housing is lined with such an insulative and chemically resistant material. Other suitable materials would be inorganic materials such as alumina silica alumino silicate and other insulative refractory or ceramic materials.

The internal space of housing is divided into a catholyte compartment and anolyte compartment by a divider . The divider preferably is substantially permeable only to cations and substantially impermeable to anions polyanions and dissolved sulfur. The divider may be fabricated in part from an alkali metal ion conductive material. If the metal to be recovered by the cell is sodium a particularly well suited material for the divider is known as NaSICON which has relatively high ionic conductivity at room temperature. A typical NaSICON composition substantially would be NaZrSiPOwhere 0

The anode is located within the anolyte compartment . It may be fabricated from an electrically conductive material such as stainless steel nickel iron iron alloys nickel alloys and other anode materials known in the art. The anode is connected to the positive terminal of a direct current power supply. The anode may be a mesh monolithic structure or may be a monolith with features to allow passage of anolyte through the anode structure. Anolyte solution is fed into the anolyte compartment through an inlet and passes out of the compartment through and outlet . The electrolytic cell can also be operated in a semi continuous fashion where the anolyte compartment is fed and partially drained through the same passage.

The electronically conductive cathode is in the form of a strip or band that has a portion within the catholyte compartment and a portion outside the catholyte compartment and cell housing such that the alkali metal can plate onto the cathode while it is in the catholyte compartment . The alkali metal can be stripped off the cathode while it is outside the catholyte compartment. Rotating rollers can define the path of the cathode where the path passes near the divider in the catholyte compartment exits the housing passes through a section where the alkali metal is removed from the cathode band then re enters the housing and returns near the divider . One or more of the rollers may be driven by a motor or driving mechanism not shown to cause the cathode to move through an opening in the housing and pass out of the housing continuously semi continuously or periodically.

One or more of the rollers may be attached to tensioning devices to allow the cathode to remain at an acceptable level of tension as the cathode band expands or contracts with temperature fluctuations and strains from stress. Wiping seals remove catholyte solution from the cathode as it egresses the cell so that the catholyte is returned back to the catholyte compartment. The cathode band may be fabricated from steel flexible metal alloys and other conductive materials suitable for its intended purpose. A scraper can be used to remove the plated alkali metal from the cathode as it moves. Alternatively the cathode may be exposed to a heated zone that melts the alkali metal off of the cathode . The removed alkali metal may fall into a container which may have a conveyance system not shown to transfer the alkali metal away from the cell to a storage area or point of use.

The cathode is polarized by a connection to the negative terminal of a power supply. This connection may be made with an electronically conductive brush that contacts the cathode or it may be made through one or more of the rollers contacting the cathode belt. The catholyte compartment may have an inlet port and an outlet port to transfer catholyte solution in and out of the catholyte compartment when required.

Within the catholyte compartment is an alkali ion conductive liquid which may include a polar solvent. Non limiting examples of suitable polar solvents are tetraglyme diglyme dimethyl carbonate dimethoxy ether propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate diethyl carbonate and such. An appropriate alkali metal salt such as a chloride bromide iodide perchlorate hexafluorophosphate or such is dissolved in the polar solvent to form that catholyte solution.

One non limiting example of the operation of the electrolytic cell is described as follows Anolyte solution containing approximately 60 100 polar solvent such asformamide methyl formamide dimethyl formamide acetamide methyl acetamide dimethyl acetamide ethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 2 ethanediol 1 2 propanediol propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate diethyl carbonate N methyl pyrrolidone tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether tetralglyme acetonitrile dimethyl sulfoxide liquid ammonia methyl amine or 1 3 Dimethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrahydro 2 1H pyrimidinone DMPU or combinations of the above and 0 40 apolar solvent such as N N dimethylaniline DMA or quinoline and 1 to saturation sodium polysulfide relative to the total solvent is fed into the anode compartment . The electrodes are energized such that there is an electrical potential between the anode and the cathode that is greater than the decomposition voltage which ranges between about 1.8 V and about 2.5 V depending on the composition. Concurrently sodium ions pass through the divider into the cathode compartment sodium ions are reduced to the metallic state and plate onto the cathode belt and polysulfide is oxidized at the anode such that low polysulfide anions become high polysulfide anions and or elemental sulfur forms at the anode. While sulfur is formed it is dissolved into the anolyte solvent in entirety or in part.

The sodium plated onto the belt is removed from the cell as the cathode belt is advanced then subsequently the alkali metal is removed from the cathode belt by scraping or melting outside of the cell. The catholyte is comprised of a polar solvent such as tetraglyme and a salt to increase the ionic conductivity. For example in this case sodium halide salt such as sodium chloride can be used to increase the ionic conductivity and the decomposition voltage of sodium chloride is much higher than the decomposition of sodium polysulfide. The electrolytic cell is operated at a temperature below the melting temperature of sodium. To minimize cell heating due to resistive losses the anode and cathode may be spaced relatively close to the divider within a few millimeters. Adjustments to cell temperature can be made using a heat exchanger on the flow of anolyte entering and exiting the cell through ports .

The cell shown in has a general horizontal orientation but could also be configured in a generally vertical or other orientation.

In the case of the alkali metal being sodium the following typical reactions may occur in the electrolytic cell 

At the Anode NaS Na 1 2NaS NaS Na1 2NaS16S Where x ranges from 0 to about 8 but may be greater than 8.

As noted above because the liquid that was added to the cell previously had undergone a heat treating process this cell does not have organic materials foul the electrodes.

Referring now to a schematic diagram of a method for regenerating sulfur and an alkali metal from an oil source is described. Specifically the method includes an oil source of the type described herein. This oil source is reacted within a reactor with a quantity of an alkali metal in the manner outlined above. Once reacted a liquid material is produced. This liquid material may simply be referred to as liquid . This liquid may be the upgraded oil product. In addition to liquid product a quantity of solid materials which may be simply called solids are produced.

The produced solids may be washed with a light petroleum substance such as hexane heptane toluene or mixtures of these substances or natural gas condensate or the like to remove adhered liquid product . The light petroleum substance may be stripped away by distillation for example to leave behind liquid product. This liquid product may then be re added to the liquid . The light petroleum substance which was stripped away may be re used in washing another batch of solids .

The solids may include quantities of heavy metals coke organic solids sodium sulfide sodium nitride etc. These solids may then be subjected to a heat treatment step . In this heat treatment the solids are heated in a substantial absence of oxygen or water for example under the presence of nitrogen an inert gas or hydrocarbon gases such as methane. Such heating may involve heating the solids to a temperature above 400 C. and preferably above 500 C. As part of this heat treatment procedure a quantity of treated solids are produced. Further during the heat treatment procedure a quantity of gases such as methane or other organic gases is also produced. It is believed that this heat treatment step operates to convert some of the organic products such as coke within the solids into methane or other volatile organics such that these gases are removed from the solids . As a result of the gases being emitted the weight of the treated solids is generally less than the weight of the solids given that some of the mass of the solids has been lost as organic gases. After undergoing this heat treatment procedure the solids may be more granular than they were previously.

Once treated by this heat treatment step the treated solids may then be dissolved in step in a solution comprising a polar solvent . Once dissolved the material is added to a separator . Within this separator solids will be removed. Such solids may include residual coke and heavy metal products. Such solids can literally fall to be bottom of the separator and thus may be removed by gravimetric processes filtration or other methods.

Once the solids are removed a resulting liquid is formed. This liquid may be yellowish to clear in color as a result of the presence of dissolved sodium sulfide. Polysulfide and or hydrogen sulfide anions may also be present. This liquid may be introduced into an electrolytic cell . Any electrolytic cell may be used including the cells described above. Other types of electrolytic cells including those described in the 270 patent or the 874 application may also be used. While in this cell electricity is added to conduct an electrolytic reaction which operates to oxidize the sulfide anions into polysulfide ions and sulfide and polysulfide ions into sulfur which may be collected re used sold etc. as well as regenerated alkali metal . This regenerated alkali metal may then be re used in the reaction vessel as a means of upgrading a further batch of oil products. A portion of the anolyte from the cells may serve as the polar solvent .

Most sodium is produced commercially from electrolysis of sodium chloride in molten salt rather than sodium polysulfide but the decomposition voltage and energy requirement is about half for polysulfide compared to chloride as shown in Table 1.

The open circuit potential of a sodium polysulfide cell is as low as 1.8V when a lower polysulfide NaSis decomposed while the voltage rises with rising sulfur content. Thus it may be desirable to operate a portion of the electrolysis using anolyte with lower sulfur content. In one embodiment a planar NaSICON or Lithium Titanium Phosphate LTP membrane is used to regenerate sodium or lithium respectively. NaSICON and LTP have good low temperature conductivity as shown in Table 2. The conductivity values for beta alumina were estimated from the 300 C. conductivity and activation energy reported by May. G. May 3 1 1978 .

The anolyte solution may be preferably selected to dissolve polysulfides and sulfur. U.S. Pat. No. 6 852 450 to Hwang et al. discloses a high cathode sulfur electrode utilization by using a mixture of polar and apolar solvents. The polar solvents were useful for dissolving most of the polysulfides that are polar in nature and the apolar solvent is useful for dissolving the sulfur that is apolar in nature. A mixture of polar and apolar solvents may be used in anolyte solution within the scope of the present invention but it is not required. If the electrolytic cells are operated above the melting temperature of sulfur it may not be necessary to use an apolar solvent for the purposes of completely dissolving the sulfur but the apolar solvent will likely reduce the polarization of the anode. Hwang measured the solubility of sulfur and found numerous solvents with relatively high solubility. Hwang did not report the solubility of polysulfides. The top eight solvents were cyclohexane benzene trifluortoluene toluene fluorbenzene tetrahydrofurane THF and 2 methyl tetrahydrofurane 2 MeTHF . The first six have solubilities above 80 mM while the last two have solubilities above 40 mM. To separate the sulfur a portion of the anolyte from the high polysulfide cells will be bled off and processed as discussed herein. Some of the sulfur may be removed by cooling and gravimetrically separating or through filtration. Other methods may also be used such as vaporizating the apolar solvent then using gravimetric or filtration means.

Table 3 lists the eight solvents with highest sulfur solubility based on the findings of U.S. Pat. No. 6 852 450. This patent did not specify but the solubilities listed are probably for temperatures near 25 C. and would be higher at elevated temperatures. Table 3 also lists the boiling points of those solvents. The data is arranged in order of boiling point temperature. Based on this data the most suitable solvents to be added to the anolyte are xylene toluene and trifluorotoluene. Operation at pressures above ambient may be desirable to keep the solvent from vaporizing at operating temperatures near 120 C. particularly since most of the domestic shale oil would be processed at elevations between 4000 8000 feet above sea level.

Conversely Table 4 lists eight solvents with low sulfur solubility based on U.S. Pat. No. 6 852 450. Composing anolyte from one or more solvents from Table 3 and one or more solvents from Table 4 may be desirable such that apolar solvent dissolves sulfur and a polar solvent dissolves the polar polysulfide. If the process is run in stages it may be useful to have the polar solvent in the low polysulfide cells because they should contain negligible amounts of sulfur. Based on boiling point in Table 4 tetraglyme and diglyme would be the best candidate solvents for the anolyte given operating temperature of 120 C.

Sulfur has been found to be soluble to an extent in tetraglyme and the solubility rises with increasing temperature. Adding an apolar solvent such as N N dimethylaniline DMA increases the sulfur solubility. The sulfur solubilities versus temperature for tetraglyme DMA and mixture of tetraglyme and DMA 80 20 by weight are shown in Table 5 below 

Tetraglyme alone can dissolve sulfur formed at the anode to an extent particularly if the cells operate at elevated temperatures above 50 C. Addition of selected solvents such as DMA enables the solvent to dissolve more sulfur preventing polarization at the anode.

If the electrolytic cells operate at an even slightly elevated temperature of about 70 C. a stream of anolyte solution near saturation can be brought outside the electrolytic cell and chilled using a heat exchanger or other means to cause sulfur to precipitate. The sulfur can be removed by one of several means such as filtration gravimetrically centrifugation and such. Sulfur has nearly two 2 times the specific gravity of the solvent mixture and is easily separated. The sulfur depleted solvent then can be returned to the anolyte to reduce the overall sulfur concentration in the anolyte.

Once the solution of sodium and sulfides are added to the cell sulfur may be obtained. discloses a schematic of an exemplary embodiment of a system to remove sulfur from the anolyte solution. Referring to warm sulfur laden anolyte solution enters heat exchanger . Coolant from a chiller or cooling tower not shown cools down the anolyte through heat exchange. Coolant from the heat exchanger returns back to the chiller. As the sulfur laden anolyte solution is cooled sulfur precipitates or forms a second liquid phase as the solubility within the anolyte decreases. The chilled anolyte enters an enclosed thickener to allow settling of solid phase sulfur or sulfur liquid phase. A stream heavily containing sulfur solids flows to a rotary filter . Liquid anolyte flows into the filter while solid sulfur remains on the filter media on the outside of the drum . Overflow anolyte from the thickener enters a tank that also receives make up solvent mixture . Together this stream is used as a spray to wash the sulfur filter cake. The sulfur filter cake is removed from the rotary filter enclosure by a conveyor means not shown . Chilled and low sulfur bearing anolyte is pumped from the filter drum back to the electrolytic cell. The stream may be heat exchanged with stream in a heat exchanger not shown to heat up the anolyte before returning it to the electrolytic cell and to reduce the temperature of the anolyte entering the chilled heat exchanger . Sulfur liquid phase may be separated directly from the bottom of the thickener . It will be appreciated that many alternative approaches and variations to this process of removing sulfur from the anolyte solution are possible. It may also be appreciated that a second phase of liquid sulfur may form within the cells and may settle in a thickener without chilling.

Other anolyte solvents which may be utilized to increase sulfur solubility in the anolyte solution include tetrahydrofuran 2 methyl tetrahydrofuran benzene cyclohexane fluorobenzene thrifluorobenzene toluene and xylene. Other polar solvents which may be used to dissolve polysulfides include tetraglyme diglyme isopropanol ethyl propional dimethyl carbonate dimethoxy ether ethanol and ethyl acetate propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate diethyl carbonate and such.

Another non limiting example on a process within the scope of the present invention is like the one disclosed above except lithium polysulfide is decomposed. Lithium ions pass through the divider and lithium metal is reduced at the cathode inside the cell and scraped off outside the cell.

The 270 patent discloses an embodiment in which after the oil stream has been reacted with an alkali metal the product stream may further be reacted with HS thereby converting the sodium sulfide products into NaHS and the nitride products into ammonia gas and NaHS . It should be noted that once these reactions have occurred the solid products which contain the heavy metals and the NaHS products may be washed with the toluene or other solvent in the manner outlined herein. This washing liquid will then be removed and the formed liquid which includes upgraded oil products may be re added to the liquid upgraded oil feedstock.

The washed solids may then be heat treated in the manner outlined above. This heat treatment of the solids which include NaHS and heavy metals occurs at a temperature above 400 or 500 C. and occurs under nitrogen methane or another non oxidizing environment. During this heat treating some of the organic materials that were present in the solids such as coke materials will be converted into methane and removed from the solid. Thus the mass of the solid materials after heat treating may be less than the mass of the solids before heat treating.

This heat treated solid material which contains NaHS may then be dissolved in a polar solvent so that the heavy metals may be separated out. The resulting liquid material which includes dissolved NaHS and the polar solvent is added to a cell so that the S and the Na may be recovered in the manner outlined herein.

Referring now to another embodiment of a process for upgrading an oil feedstock is shown schematically. As will be described in greater detail herein this process removes sulfur nitrogen and heavy metals from an oil feedstock while at the same time regenerates the alkali metal . Specifically the process involves reacting an oil feedstock with a quantity of an alkali metal . This reaction may occur within a reaction vessel or another suitable vessel. This reaction produces a quantity of solid materials which may also be referred to as solids as well as liquid materials which may also be referred to as liquids . The liquids may be the upgraded oil stream that has a reduced amount of sulfur nitrogen and heavy metals contained therein. Additionally and or optionally a gas may be added to the reactor to facilitate the reaction of the oil feedstock and the alkali metal . This reaction with the gas which may be hydrogen methane or another hydrocarbon gas is described above and in the 874 application.

As shown in the solids and liquids may be separated from each other. This separation may occur within a separator . This separation produces separated liquid materials and separated solids . The separated solid materials may then be washed as shown in washing step . This washing may involve washing the solids with an organic washing liquid such as hexane heptanes toluene or mixtures of these substances or natural gas condensate or another hydrocarbon liquid. The purpose of this washing is to collect any residual oil materials that may have been adhered to the solids . Once washed the solids may be referred to as washed solids or washed solid materials . 

After being used to wash the solids the organic washing liquid may be removed 735. More specifically the washing liquid will be evaporated off leaving the organic products that were adhered to the solids . These resulting products may then be added re mixed with the separated liquids as shown by arrow .

The washed solids may then be subjected to a heat treating step . In this heat treating step the solid materials are heated a temperature above 400 C. and more preferable to a temperature above 500 C. . This heat treating may occur in an atmosphere that has low oxygen and water content. In some embodiments this may involve heating the solids in an atmosphere comprising one or more of the following gases nitrogen helium neon argon krypton xenon radon methane or another hydrocarbon or mixtures of the foregoing. It should be noted that the heat treating step may cause the solid materials to lose mass. This loss of mass also corresponds with an increase in the carbon to hydrogen ratio of the solid material. In other words the heat treating converts some of the coke organic product within the solids into gases that are emitted during the heat treatment but may be collected for gas products or process value. These gases may be methane or another hydrocarbon gas. It is the loss of this gas that causes the mass of the solids to be reduced. Moreover because a hydrocarbon gas is emitted such as methane the overall carbon to hydrogen ratio within the solid materials may be increased.

After the heat treating has occurred the remaining solid materials as represented by an arrow may be added to a solution comprising a polar solvent . More specifically the solid materials are dissolved or partially dissolved in a solution comprising a polar solvent . This solution comprising a polar solvent has a boiling temperature above 130 C. and specific gravity less than 2 g cc. In some embodiments the solution comprising a polar solvent comprises one or more solvents selected from group consisting of formamide methyl formamide dimethyl formamide acetamide methyl acetamide dimethyl acetamide ethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 2 ethanediol 1 2 propanediol propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate diethyl carbonate N methylpyrrolidone tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether tetralglyme acetonitrile dimethyl sulfoxide liquid ammonia methyl amine methyl formamide 1 3 Dimethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrahydro 2 1H pyrimidinone DMPU and combinations thereof.

The solid materials contain some sulfide hydrogen sulfide and or polysulfide anions contained therein. Accordingly the polar solvent must be selected so that at least some sulfide hydrogen sulfide and or polysulfide anions dissolve therein.

After the solid materials are added to the polar solvent a separation may occur in which any remaining solid materials are removed from the polar solvent . As noted above the polar solvent will dissolve or partially dissolve sulfide hydrogen sulfide or polysulfide anions accordingly the resulting liquid may have a yellowish tint from the dissolved sulfur moieties but may also be clear. However some solids may not dissolve in the solution comprising polar solvent . Thus these solids which are called remaining solid materials can be removed from the liquid.

The solution comprising polar solvent which includes the liquid is added to an electrolytic cell . More specifically the solution comprising polar solvent may be added to an electrolytic cell that includes an anolyte compartment and a catholyte compartment . The solution comprising polar solvent may be added to the anolyte compartment . The anolyte compartment may at least partially house an anode . The anolyte compartment also includes an anolyte . The solution comprising polar solvent mixes with becomes part of the anolyte . The anolyte is preferably a liquid material. Further a portion of the anolyte may serve as the solution comprising polar solvent .

The catholyte compartment at least partially houses a cathode . The catholyte compartment also includes a catholyte . The cell further comprises an alkali ion conductive membrane . This membrane is substantially impermeable to sulfide hydrogen sulfide or polysulfide anions the catholyte the anolyte and sulfur. This membrane separates the catholyte compartment from the anolyte compartment . The alkali ion conductive membrane allows alkali metal ions to pass through the alkali metal ion conductive membrane from the anolyte compartment to the catholyte compartment . In some embodiments the alkali ion conductive membrane is selected from the group consisting of an alkali metal conductive ceramic a glass ceramic and a solid MSICON Metal Super Ion CONducting material where M is Na or Li.

During operation of the cell an electrolytic reaction will occur. More specifically during operation the electrolytic cell may produce alkali metal in the catholyte compartment and thus regenerate the alkali metal . Likewise the electrolytic cell in the anolyte compartment may produce elemental sulfur . More specifically during operation of the electrolytic cell sulfur moeities in the anolyte compartment from the polysulfide sulfide and or hydrogen sulfide anions are reacted to form polysulfide ions and elemental sulfur . Alkali metal ions in the catholyte compartment are reacted to form elemental alkali metal . In some embodiments the cell and or the anolyte compartment is maintained at a temperature that is greater than or equal to 115 C. such that the produced sulfur is in the liquid phase.

In some embodiments this operation of the electrolytic cell may occur at a temperature that is below the melting temperature of the alkali metal . In these embodiments solid elemental alkali metal is produced and may be for example plated onto the cathode in the manner outlined above in connection with . In other embodiments the cell or the catholyte compartment may be heated to a temperature above the melting point of the alkali metal such that the produced alkali metal is molten. If molten the alkali metal may be removed from the catholyte compartment in a variety of ways gravimetric electromagnetic pumping and other methods know by those skilled in the art handling molten metals.

In order to produce the alkali metal the catholyte in the catholyte compartment may comprise an alkali metal salt selected from the group consisting of an alkali metal chloride bromide iodide perchlorate and hexafluorophosphate. Further the catholyte may also include a catholyte solvent selected from group consisting of tetraglyme diglyme dimethyl carbonate dimethoxy ether propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate and diethyl carbonate. Also if the temperature is above the melting temperature of the alkali metal the molten alkali metal may serve as the catholyte.

Referring now to a further process is illustrated in schematic form. The process relates to a method of upgrading an oil feedstock. Specifically in the process a solid material is obtained . This solid material has been formed from the reaction of an oil feedstock with a quantity of an alkali metal in the manner outlined herein. This solid material will then be heat treated in the manner outlined herein. Such heat treating may involve heating the solid materials to a temperature above 400 or 500 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere or other inert atmosphere . This heat treating may cause the solid materials to lose mass as a result of some of the organic matter in the solid materials being converted into methane or other gases. The heat treated solid materials are represented in by arrow .

These heat treated solid materials may then be dissolved in a solution comprising polar solvent . This dissolving forms a liquid material and a solid material . As shown by the liquid materials may be separated using separating techniques such that the liquid materials are isolated from the remaining solids . These remaining solids may comprise heavy metals or other materials that were formed during the reaction between the organic oil feedstock and the alkali metal. It should be noted that the solution comprising polar solvent used to dissolve the materials may have a boiling temperature above 130 C. and specific gravity less than 2 g cc. This solution comprising polar solvent should be selected such that sulfide anions polysulfide anions and or hydrogen sulfide anions have at least some solubility in the solution comprising polar solvent .

As shown in the liquid materials which includes the solution comprising polar solvent and sulfide anions polysulfide anions and or hydrogen sulfide anions is added as shown by arrow to an electrolytic cell . This electrolytic cell may be electrolyzed. In general this electrolyzing may occur at a temperature that is greater or equal to 115 C. so that any sulfur formed in the cell is in its liquid phase.

The cell comprises an anode and a cathode . The anode is at least partially housed in an anolyte compartment . The anolyte compartment will generally include a liquid anolyte . The liquids mix with the liquid anolyte .

The cell may also include a catholyte compartment . The anolyte compartment and the catholyte compartment are separated by an alkali metal ion conductive membrane .

The liquid anolyte may include a quantity of sulfide anions a quantity of polysulfide anions and or a quantity of hydrogen sulfide anions . An anolyte solvent which may or may not be the same as the polar solvent used in the dissolving step is also part of the liquid anolyte . As part of the reaction at the anode alkali metal ions are formed. These alkali metal ions may be transported across the alkali metal ion conductive membrane from the anolyte compartment to the catholyte compartment .

The catholyte compartment also includes a liquid catholyte . This catholyte includes a catholyte solvent which may or may not be the same as the solvent in the anolyte compartment . The catholyte solvent may be selected from group consisting of tetraglyme diglyme dimethyl carbonate dimethoxy ether propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate and diethyl carbonate. The catholyte may further include an alkali metal salt that is dissolved into alkali metal ions and anions . In some embodiment the alkali metal salt is selected from the group consisting of an alkali metal chloride bromide iodide perchlorate and hexafluorophosphate. As shown in such alkali metal salts may dissolve and separate into their corresponding ions within the liquid catholyte .

The reaction that occurs at the anode will now be described. Specifically during operation of the electrolytic cell sulfur moieties in the anolyte compartment are reacted to form polysulfide ions and elemental sulfur according to the following reactions NaS Na 1 2NaS NaS Na 1 2NaS16S Where x ranges from 0 to about 8 but may be greater.

As shown in some of the anolyte may be removed as shown by arrow from the bottom of the electrolytic cell . The removed anolyte comprises a portion of the produced elemental sulfur . This elemental sulfur may then be separated from the anolyte via a separator . Once separated the sulfur may then be sold used etc. Further after the sulfur has been separated the anolyte may be returned to the cell as shown by arrow . The sulfur free anolyte may also serve as the solution comprising polar solvent . shows one example of the way in which sulfur may be separated however other embodiments for separating the sulfur may also be used.

At the cathode alkali metal ions are reduced to form alkali metal . The way in which this occurs and the way in which the alkali metal may be separated from the cathode will now be described. The cathode includes an inside portion that is within the catholyte compartment and thus in contact with catholyte and an outside portion that is outside of the catholyte compartment. More specifically the cathode comprises a metal band that follows the path of rollers . The rollers facilitate the transfer of the outside portion to within the cell and facilitate the movement of the inside portion outside of the cell . The inside portion of the cathode can be transferred outside the catholyte compartment and the outside portion can be transferred inside the catholyte compartment without substantially interrupting the operation of the electrolytic cell . This may occur by having the alkali metal plate onto the inside portion of the cathode while this portion is inside the catholyte compartment and then the plated metal is removed via brushes scrapers etc. from the outside portion of the cathode while this portion is outside the catholyte compartment . Of course those skilled in the art will appreciate that shows only one example of the way in which the formed alkali metal may be collected. Other embodiments may also be used.

In view of the foregoing it will be appreciated that the disclosed invention includes one or more of the following advantages 

operating an electrolytic cell to process an alkali metal sulfide or polysulfide at temperatures below the melting temperature of the alkali metal 

operating an electrolytic cell continuously or semi continuously to process an alkali metal sulfide or polysulfide at temperatures below the melting temperature of the alkali metal 

removing high alkali metal polysulfides and dissolved sulfur continuously or semi continuously from the electrolytic cell thereby reducing polarization of the anode by sulfur 

separating sulfur continuously or semi continuously from a stream containing a mixture of solvent sulfur and alkali metal polysulfides such that the solvent and alkali metal polysulfides are substantially recovered such that they can be returned back to an electrolytic process 

providing an apparatus and method for regenerating hydrogen sulfide from and alkali metal hydrosulfide and

operating the electrolytic cells at low temperatures and pressures so that the electrolytic cell materials of construction can include materials which would not tolerate elevated temperature.

An additional post treatment that may be used to reduce the alkali metal content in the petroleum product is to use electrostatic separators to remove suspended alkali metal sulfides or other alkali metal salts such as napthanic acid salts. The equipment utilized may be equipment found typically such as offered by AMR Process Inc. of Leduc Alberta. The process of removing alkali metal species may further be assisted with the addition of water to the petroleum product and desalting with such electrostatic equipment.

Referring now to a schematic drawing of a process for upgrading the oil feedstock that includes this post treatment method is illustrated. Specifically a quantity of reacted oil feedstock is obtained. This oil feedstock has been reacted by having an oil feedstock react with an alkali metal such as for example a molten alkali metal . As described above this reaction may or may not include an additional gas such as hydrogen methane etc. Thus in the process the reacted oil feedstock may be the upgraded oil the liquid that was sent to separator the liquid the liquid or another reacted oil feedstock material.

In the process the reacted feedstock may be filtered such that filtered solids are removed. This filtering may remove suspended solids such as suspended alkali metal sulfides or other alkali metal salts such as napthanic acid salts. Once filtered a solution comprising polar solvent may be added to the liquid as shown by line . In some embodiments the solution comprising polar solvent comprises water . However other polar solvents may be used as the solution comprising polar solvent . This solution comprising polar solvent may include water mixed with another polar solvent. This polar solvent water is designed to dissolve alkali metal salts that are present in the liquid stream.

Once the polar solvent and or water has been added the polar solvent water may be separated from the liquid which is represented by an arrow . The dissolved alkali metals salts and or napthanic acid salts will generally separate into the solution comprising polar solvent water . Accordingly when this phase is removed the amount of these materials in the liquid will be decreased. In order to further aid in this separation process an electrostatic separator may be used. An exemplary electrostatic separator is available from AMR Process Inc. of Leduc Alberta and may involve a desalting process that is used with the liquid . Once this separation process is completed the upgraded oil will have a reduced amount of alkali metal containing materials found therein and thus may be worth more and or more easily refined processed into a fuel product.

The following example is provided below which discusses one specific embodiment within the scope of the invention. This embodiment is exemplary in nature and should not be construed to limit the scope of the invention in any way.

Sodium was reacted with bitumen which originally contained 5 sulfur. Solids were separated from the treated bitumen by centrifugation. The solids where rinsed with toluene. The toluene rinse was heated to strip off the toluene which was collected in a condenser. The remaining liquid was added back to the product liquid e.g. the liquid portion of the product obtained from the reaction of bitumen and sodium . 97 of the sulfur had been removed from the liquid product according to test results and the API gravity of the liquid product increased from 8 to 19.

The solids that were washed with toluene contained over 50 carbon and were inter mixed with sodium sulfide. The solids were heated to 600 C. for one hour under nitrogen and cooled. Following the treatment the solids were powdery. X ray diffractometry indicated the mixture of solid materials contained considerable sodium sulfide.

A polar organic solvent was mixed with the heat treated solids. The polar solvent liquid went from clear to yellow indicating dissolution of the sodium sulfide. The liquid solution was filtered to remove any undissolvable solids and then the liquid was added to an electrolysis cell with NaSICON membrane. The cell was operated at 130 C. and constant current of 60 milliamps per centimeter squared current density. The cell initially had an open circuit potential of 1.8 V which later steadily rose to 2.5 V at which time 95 of the sulfur had been electrochemically reduced to its elemental form.

An electrolytic flow cell may utilize a 1 diameter NaSICON membrane with approximately 3.2 cmactive area. The NaSICON is sealed to a scaffold comprised of a non conductive material that is also tolerant of the environment. One suitable scaffold material is alumina. Glass may be used as the seal material. The flow path of electrolytes will be through a gap between electrodes and the membrane. The anode sulfur electrode may be comprised of graphite or titanium among other materials. The cathode may be either aluminum or stainless steel. It is within the scope of the invention to configure the flow cell with a bipolar electrodes design. Anolyte and catholyte solutions may each have a reservoir and pump. The anolyte reservoir may have an agitator. The entire system may preferably have temperature control with a maximum temperature of 150 C. and also be configured to be bathed in a dry cover gas. The system preferably may also have a power supply capable of delivering to 5 VDC and up to 100 mA cm.

As much as possible materials will be selected for construction that are corrosion resistant with the expected conditions. The flow cell will be designed such that the gap between electrodes and membrane can be varied.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described numerous modifications come to mind without significantly departing from the spirit of the invention and the scope of protection is only limited by the scope of the accompanying claims.

All the patent applications and patents listed herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

