---

title: High-frequency shear-horizontal surface acoustic wave sensor
abstract: A Love wave sensor uses a single-phase unidirectional interdigital transducer (IDT) on a piezoelectric substrate for leaky surface acoustic wave generation. The IDT design minimizes propagation losses, bulk wave interferences, provides a highly linear phase response, and eliminates the need for impedance matching. As an example, a high frequency (˜300-400 MHz) surface acoustic wave (SAW) transducer enables efficient excitation of shear-horizontal waves on 36° Y-cut lithium tantalate (LTO) giving a highly linear phase response (2.8° P-P). The sensor has the ability to detect at the pg/mmlevel and can perform multi-analyte detection in real-time. The sensor can be used for rapid autonomous detection of pathogenic microorganisms and bioagents by field deployable platforms.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08669688&OS=08669688&RS=08669688
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08669688
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130501
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 12 169 239 filed Jul. 8 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to biological sensing and in particular to a high frequency interdigital transducer that is optimized to generate shear horizontal surface acoustic waves on substrates supporting leaky waves for the detection biological analytes in a fluid.

Microfabricated biological sensors based on acoustic devices combine a biologically active interface which binds biological species i.e. analytes from an environment with a physical transducer that provides an electrical output proportional to the amount of bound analyte. A commonly used acoustic device for biological sensing includes leaky surface acoustic wave LSAW sensors that rely on the electrical excitation of a shear horizontal surface acoustic wave on a piezoelectric substrate. Typically a wave is established on a surface and the collection of analyte mass on the surface influences the propagation of the surface wave. In particular these analyte induced changes can be sensed as variations in the velocity and amplitude of the surface wave.

Recently Love wave sensors have received considerable attention for their high mass and viscous sensitivity with a minimal need for additional reagents. Minimizing the use of reagents is desirable for field deployable chem and bio detection systems. The transduction mechanism for Love wave sensors is based on propagating waves with a shear horizontal SH polarization along the propagation direction. The SH polarization minimizes attenuation of the surface acoustic wave SAW into viscous media permitting detection in liquids. See G. Kovacs et al. . pp. 281 285 1992 G. Harding et al. 61 279 1997 O. Tamarin et al. 18 755 2003 and D. W. Branch and S. M. Brozik 19 849 2003 .

Love wave sensors comprise a piezoelectric substrate that primarily excites SH waves which are subsequently confined by a thin guiding layer. In general if the layer material loads the substrate i.e. the shear velocity in the layer is smaller than in the substrate the SH bulk mode will become a surface mode having a single transverse component of displacement confined within a few wavelengths of the surface. In particular at high frequencies such that the wavelength is less than the layer thickness a surface Love wave can be concentrated in the thin waveguide layer. Therefore the waveguide layer is crucial to achieve high sensitivity by having a low shear velocity compared to the substrate. See G. Kovacs et al. 281 1992 and Z. Wang and J. D. N. Cheeke 64 2940 1994 . For biodetection the waveguide layer can also provide a mechanism for stable chemical attachment through covalent linkage of antibodies DNA or other biomolecules to achieve the required selectivity. Waveguide materials such as polymers silicon dioxide SiO and more recently zinc oxide ZnO are in use. See E. Gizeli et al. 39 657 1992 F. Herrmann et al. 48 268 2001 and D. A. Powell et al. 493 2002 .

However piezoelectric substrates that support such leaky surface acoustic waves such as Love waves require advanced transducer designs to avoid excitation of undesired modes. Unlike Rayleigh wave devices where a true surface wave exists in the absence of dispersion LSAW transducers require that bulk waves are suppressed and that intra device acoustic reflections are minimized. Existing bidirectional transducers have major drawbacks in this regard since waves are launched in both the forward and backward directions and are complicated by bulk wave generation. Above about 100 MHz the phase is highly non linear and other modes interfere with the main SH sensing mode. Although edge reflections from backward traveling waves can be easily suppressed on substrates that support Rayleigh waves through the use of absorbers this it not possible on substrates that support leaky waves. Moreover since surface skimming bulk waves SSBW propagate with a velocity very close to the leaky or shear horizontal mode on piezoelectric substrates such as 36 YX lithium tantalate LTO the design of the transducer is highly critical to exciting the proper mode especially at high frequencies. The design is further complicated by the fact that the electrode metal thickness determines the degree of propagation loss for leaky waves on LTO.

Therefore a need exists for a SH surface acoustic wave Love wave sensor comprising a high frequency interdigital transducer that provides low insertion loss and high out of band rejection while suppressing bulk wave excitation at the stop band to enable high sensitivity detection of biological and chemical analytes in a fluid.

The present invention is directed to a shear horizontal surface acoustic wave sensor comprising a piezoelectric substrate a unidirectional transmitting interdigital transducer on the substrate that primarily excites a shear horizontal wave in the substrate a guiding layer on the substrate that has a lower shear velocity than the substrate for confinement confines the shear horizontal wave therein as a guided Love wave a sensing region on the guiding layer and a unidirectional receiving interdigital transducer that detects the guided Love wave that is transmitted through the sensing region.

The interdigital transducers can comprise a single phase unidirectional transducer such as an electrode width controlled single phase unidirectional transducer. The transmitting and receiving interdigital transducers can be in a delay line configuration. The frequency of the guided Love wave can be greater than 100 MHz. Piezoelectric substrates that excite either pure or leaky shear horizontal mode generation include 36 Y quartz 36 YX lithium tantalate langasite langatate langanite lead zirconate titanate cadmium sulfide berlinite lithium iodate lithium tetraborate and bismuth germanium oxide. Alternatively the sensor can comprise a piezoelectric crystal layer on a rigid non piezoelectric substrate. The guiding layer can comprise a polymer SiO or ZnO. The guiding layer is rendered biologically active by conjugating a layer of receptors such as antibodies proteins aptamers or ligands that bind analytes from a fluid. Similarly the sensor can detect chemicals in fluids through binding to a chemically sensitive interface.

In is shown a schematic side view illustration of a shear horizontal SAW Love wave sensor of the present invention. The Love wave sensor comprises a piezoelectric substrate a transmitting interdigital transducer IDT that primarily excites SH waves in the piezoelectric substrate a thin guiding layer that confines the SH wave as a Love wave and a receiving IDT that detects the guided Love wave in a delay line configuration. To obtain low device loss the delay line is preferably reciprocal with a receiving IDT that is equivalent to the transmitting IDT . The sensor can further comprise electrical tuning circuits not shown for optimizing IDT electrical connections with external electrical components such as a voltage source or electrical load. The thin guiding layer is built on the piezoelectric substrate . The guiding layer comprises a material that has shear velocity that is smaller than the substrate to confine the Love wave. The waveguide layer can also provide a mechanism for attachment of a biological or chemical analyte from a liquid medium . For example the waveguide layer can further comprise a chemically or biologically sensitive layer or interface that sorbs or captures the analyte from the liquid. The layer or interface can comprise a material that is sensitive and selective to the specific analyte to be detected. A fluid cell can provide for delivery of the analytes to the interface .

The delay line can be configured such that acoustic waves are launched and received after traveling through the liquid interface sensing region of the guiding layer . When a radio frequency RF voltage is applied to the electrical port of the transmitting IDT a SH wave is generated in the substrate and subsequently confined as a Love wave in the guiding layer . The receiving IDT can detect the Love wave by transducing the mechanical wave back into an electrical signal by inverse piezoelectric coupling. Added mass from the captured analyte perturbs the propagation velocity of the Love wave in the guiding layer. In the delay line configuration the open loop operation at constant frequency provides relative phase shifts for each delay line channel.

The substrate preferably comprises a piezoelectric crystal that has a high electromagnetic coupling coefficient and can propagate a LSAW with high velocity. The substrate can be a precisely oriented piezoelectric crystal plate that can generate a SAW having SH polarization along the propagation direction. For example the crystal plate can comprise 36 Y quartz 36 YX LTO langasite langatate langanite lead zirconate titanate PZT cadmium sulfide CdS berlinite lithium iodate LilO lithium tetraborate LiBO or bismuth germanium oxide BiGeO which support either leaky or true SH waves. See M. P. Cunha et al. 381 2002 and E. Berkenpas et al. 1404 2003 . The electromagnetic coupling coefficient K is a measure of the efficiency of the piezoelectric material in converting an applied electrical signal into mechanical energy of the SAW. Preferably the substrate comprises a strong piezoelectric material such as 36 Y cut LTO which exhibits strong coupling K 6.6 for propagation of a leaky SH type wave along the X axis. The strong coupling on LTO provides advantages over substrates such as 36 Y quartz where exquisite care in the fluidic packaging is required to prevent excessive wave damping and hence high insertion losses. Alternatively the substrate can comprise a thin piezoelectric crystal layer that is thicker than the SAW penetration depth i.e. greater than a few acoustic wavelength thickness on a rigid non piezoelectric substrate. For example the thin crystal layer can comprise a piezoelectric film of ZnO or AlN on the substrate. These materials can be deposited by sputtering or sol gel methods.

The guiding layer comprises a waveguide material that has shear velocity that is smaller than the substrate to support the existence of Love waves. Preferably the waveguide material has low acoustic loss low acoustic propagation velocity chemical stability in fluid environments capability of being deposited on piezoelectric substrates and is suitable for chemical attachment of biological receptors. For example the waveguide material can be a polymer SiO or ZnO.

An IDT comprises opposing comb shaped electrodes each having a fingerlike periodic pattern of electrode fingers interdigitated with the electrode fingers of the opposing comb shaped electrode. The electrodes can be formed of any suitable conductive material. An acoustic cell within the IDT is defined in terms of the periodicity of the finger structure that is specified in terms of the acoustic wavelength. This cell pattern often repeats for a specific number of wavelengths which defines the overall acoustic length of the IDT. When a RF drive voltage is applied to the comb shaped electrodes of the transmitting IDT a spatially periodic surface concentrated electric field distribution is established between the spatially periodic electrode fingers that penetrates into the piezoelectric substrate. Because of the piezoelectric coupling an elastic strain distribution with periodicity is created in the substrate thereby generating the acoustic wave. To generate the correct acoustic wave the proper axis of the piezoelectric crystal is preferably aligned with the IDT. The strength of the outputted acoustic wave can be controlled by changing the overlap of the electrodes number of finger pairs their periodicity the finger pattern and the power input.

The bandwidth of the delay line is determined by the design of the transmitting and receiving IDTs coupling constant of the piezoelectric substrate and insertion loss. Insertion losses arise from bidirectional and reflection losses of the IDTs excitation of undesired modes material losses diffraction effects beam steering effects due to misorientation of the transducers and any electrical mismatches. Spurious signals arising from these effects can cause a nonlinear response that can severely restrict the dynamic range of the delay line. Existing bidirectional LSAW transducer designs produce highly non linear phase responses causing the monitored phase response to shift in a non linear fashion.

The SH SAW sensor of the present invention comprises a unidirectional interdigital transducer wherein acoustic waves are generated predominantly in one direction. The unidirectional IDT uses the bidirectional aspect of a single excitation electrode finger and grounded metal reflectors. The unidirectional IDT structure comprises electrodes that cause the phases from each of the spatially separated excitation electrode fingers to be in phase. Unidirectionality can be achieved by introducing reflectors or passive electrode fingers between parts of the transducer. The placement of the reflectors is such that they selectively enhance the generated signal in the forward direction while the reflections reduce the size of the signal transduced in the reverse direction. The spacing between the bidirectional excitation electrodes and the reflectors is optimized to create acoustic waves that are in phase along the length of the transducer. The finger spacing can be on order of the finger width. The metal thickness of the fingers also impacts the reflectivity of the overall structure and can be optimized to reduce mode conversion i.e. energy loss to the substrate . Therefore a unidirectional transducer with appropriate phasing can achieve a high level of directivity and provide frequency scalability for a variety of sensor applications.

The unidirectional IDT preferably comprises a single phase unidirectional transducer SPUDT . A SPUDT deliberately includes reflections internal to the transducer to cancel the effects of regeneration reflection. The SPUDT can be a double metallization SPUDT structure a natural SPUDT NSPUDT or an electrode width controlled SPUDT EWC SPUDT . See Wright U.S. Pat. No. 5 073 763 Bergmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 777 855 and Hartmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 173 360 which are incorporated herein by reference. SPUDTs can comprise interdigitated electrode fingers that are clustered in periodically spaced ladder type finger groups or cells. The unidirectional IDT can further comprise SAW reflection gratings interspersed within the finger cells.

For example a EWC SPUDT can be used to optimize excitation of SH waves on 36 Y cut LTO at frequencies in excess of a few hundred MHz. The major design goal of the SPUDT is to achieve high directivity in the forward acoustic port while maintaining good impedance matching on the electrical port. Unidirectionality of the SPUDT is achieved when the distance of the reflection center RC is set as 2n 1 8 where n 1 2 3 . . . m and is the acoustic wavelength from the transduction center TC . See C. S. Hartmann et al. 79 1989 T. Kodama et al. 59 1986 and B. J. Hunsinger et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 162 465 which are incorporated herein by reference. With an excitation electrode width of the phase shift between the reflector and transduction centers is 2. The resulting SPUDT can have low insertion loss and good triple transit suppression at the center frequency simultaneously. Thus the IDT of the present invention can concentrate the energy of the SH SAW in one direction for leaky SAW substrates such as 36 YX LTO and is also suitable for substrates supporting true SH waves such as langasite langatate or langanite. Such an IDT is advantageous for SH SAW sensor applications where the leaky type propagation is far more stringent than Rayleigh based SAW designs.

The operational frequency of the transducer is given by f v 8d where d is the width of the excitation finger and vis the velocity of the SH wave. The upper limit in frequency is dictated by lithographic patterning limit for the smallest structure in the SPUDT design. For example a smallest feature size of 8 gives an upper limit of about 1.7 2.0 GHz on 36 YX LTO using a photolithographic pattern resolution of 0.3 m. However for fluid sensing applications operating at the IDT at 2 GHz reduces the wave penetration depth to only 12 nm in the fluid. This decay length is still suitable for protein detection applications but may be unsuitable for the detection of larger antigens such as spores and bacteria.

The dispersion behavior of an exemplary SPUDT on an LTO substrate loaded with a waveguide layer and an additional mass layer was computed by extending the Green s function method to include an isotropic film and mass layer. See D. Qiao et al. 46 1242 1999 . From kG s the effective permittivity was computed to find the propagating velocities as the waveguide layer thickness increased. For comparison the multilayered problem was analyzed using an isotropic model. In the isotropic case the substrate phase velocity was taken as V 4040 m s since the surface of the LTO is loaded by a 5000 aluminum layer. The shear velocity in the waveguide was V 2852 m s and mass layer was V 1300 m s. The density for each layer was 7450 kg m 2200 kg m and 1200 kg m.

The piezoelectric constants for LTO were taken from A. W. Warner et al. 42 1223 1967 . As shown in the dispersion behavior indicates a significant difference between the isotropic and piezoelectric model due to stiffening. Excellent agreement was observed between the measured and computed group velocities for the SiOwaveguide confirming the piezoelectric model.

To determine the sensitivity the dispersion curves were computed with and without an additional mass layer. The mass sensitivity due to the velocity shift was computed using

As an example of the present invention a SPUDT was fabricated that enabled high frequency 330 MHz excitation of the SH type wave on LTO for array operation. The wavelength is of order 10 m for most materials at an operating frequency of 330 MHz therefore these transducers can be fabricated using standard photolithographic techniques. Love wave sensors were fabricated using 36 YX LTO wafers that were 510 m thick by 100 mm in diameter and single side polished. Prior to metallization of the IDTs wafers were cleaned in a barrel asher followed by dipping in 1 vol hydrofluoric acid HF . A negative tone photoresist PR was applied onto the wafer using a spin coater with a Gyrset lid to achieve a thickness of 2.0 m. After patterning the wafers were metallized with 50 of titanium for improved adhesion followed by 5000 aluminum using an electron beam evaporator. An acetone bath was used to perform the lift off followed by rinsing in methanol isopropyl alcohol and de ionized water. This was repeated for the metallization of the ground plane buss lines and contact pads with the appropriate photomask.

Silicon dioxide waveguides up to 2.0 m in thickness were deposited onto the entire wafer using plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD . A positive tone PR was spin coated at 2000 rpm and 3000 rpm sec. A photoresist mask was used to open the SiOover the electrical contact pads. The SiOwas etched by reactive ion etching RIE . Each Love wave sensor had four delay lines per die. Each die was 10 12 mm yielding Love wave sensor arrays per wafer.

Three IgG antibody types anti avidin IgG antibody anti BSA and goat anti mouse IgG were used to perform multi analyte detection using the Love wave sensor array. Each antibody was biotinylated using sulfo LC biotin. Excess biotinylating agent was removed by centrifugation using YM 50 Millipore Microcon filters.

The sensors were cleaned in acetone methanol and isopropanol rinsed in distilled water followed by exposure to UV ozone for 15 minutes in a UV Ozone cleaner. An amine reactive surface was prepared on the SiOwaveguides using 1 3 glycidoxypropyl trimethoxysilane 3 GPS in toluene. NeutrAvidin was applied to the 3 GPS layer at 0.25 mg ml for 30 minutes. Each biotinylated antibody was reacted with the NeutrAvidin for 30 minutes using an adsorption cell to confine the antibody types over each channel. This procedure produced covalently attached IgG antibodies to the SiOwaveguide.

The sensors were measured using a network analyzer. The data acquisition system measured all four delay line channels simultaneously. Phase data was recorded in real time using a 14 bit ND converter at a rate of 1000 samples second. The data was acquired using both a laptop computer and Personal Digital Assistant PDA . Fluid injections were performed using a syringe pump connected to a six port two position flow valve. The flow rate was 10 l min and fluid cell volume was 4 l.

The mass sensitivity was determined for the Love wave sensors using calibrated fluids with known density and viscosity. See A. Malave et al. 604 2006 . Four fluid samples were prepared with known amounts of glycerin and applied to the sensors. Subsequently the phase shift was measured after each injection and repeated four times. The resulting slope was determined by a linear fit procedure and used to calculate mass sensitivity and detection limit for a given noise level and phase resolution.

As shown in this IDT had a highly linear phase response 2.8 P P with an insertion loss of 5.43 dB at 330 MHz. The phase linearity was maintained after the deposition of a 0.5 m SiOwaveguide. The IDT design proved successful toward suppressing bulk waves and preferentially exciting the leaky SH mode on 36 YX LTO. The low degree of phase ripple was ideal toward achieving a linear sensor calibration. When used in an array the cross talk was only 39 dB and can be completely eliminated in multiplexed operation. Increasing the operation frequency further for Love wave sensors would limit the ability to detect larger antigens. The wave penetration into the fluid decreases as 1 where is the operating frequency. At 330 MHz the penetration depth is 31 nm in water.

As shown in significant phase slope variation MHz was observed as the waveguide thickness was increased. This indicated that even for a highly uniform oxide deposition process 1 2 in thickness across the wafer the sensitivity is expected to vary significantly die to die when the waveguide is greater than 2 m. This problem is slightly mitigated for Love wave sensors operating above 300 MHz where the waveguide is only a few microns. At the wafer level a uniform waveguide is desirable to achieve sensor reproducibility.

Using three different antibodies covalently attached to the Love wave sensor array the presence of avidin BSA and mouse antigens were detected in real time. The injected concentration for each antigen was 100 ng ml 5 l volume . The carrier buffer was 1 PBS pH 7.2. The buffer for each antibody solution was identical to the carrier buffer to minimize viscosity shifts during injection. The fluid cell dwell time was 24 seconds.

In is shown the phase response for each Love wave sensor. Since the fluid cell was 4 l the mean protein diffusion time was about ten seconds thus the phase response was very rapid. The difference in phase responses was due to variation in binding affinities amongst the antibodies. A separate analysis is required to determine the antibody avidity to each of their intended antigens then compare with the array results.

The present invention has been described as a high frequency shear horizontal surface acoustic wave Love wave sensor. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

