---

title: Credit data analysis
abstract: A computer system receives credit information relating to a consumer and a number of high scorers, and determines credit score factors associated with the consumer and the high scorers. The system may construct flippable score factor displays comprising consumer specific information specific to a credit category that may be reversed to display explanatory text regarding how that credit category affects their credit report. The score factor display may include a comparison between the consumer's scores and the high scorers' scores in a number of categories. Scores of high scorers may be periodically refreshed. Additionally, the group of high scorers may be limited according to a particular demographic, such as a geographic location, that may be selectable by a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08930263&OS=08930263&RS=08930263
owner: ConsumerInfo.com, Inc.
number: 08930263
owner_city: Costa Mesa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application claims priority from provisional U.S. Pat. App. No. 61 732 244 filed on Nov. 30 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to but does not claim priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 452 155 filed May 30 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 610 229 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 606 060 filed Oct. 26 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 015 107 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 150 480 filed Jun. 10 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 593 891 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 563 779 filed Sep. 21 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 925 582 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 326 803 filed Dec. 15 2011 and U.S. Prov. Pat. App. No. 60 384 650 filed May 30 2002. The disclosures of the above listed applications are all hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if set forth herein in their entireties.

This disclosure relates to the field of consumer credit information and particularly to the presentation of credit score and credit report information.

A credit score is an important indicator of a consumer s financial health. Consequently having a high credit score is important to consumers for many reasons. A high credit score may qualify a consumer for various financial programs and or allow a consumer to receive favorable rates is such programs such as loan applications rental applications real estate mortgages and so on. A credit report may allow a user to view the underlying data affecting their credit score. Thus many consumers have a substantial interest in finding ways to improve their credit scores.

There is much information available to consumers as to how to improve credit scores. For example sources provide advice to consumers to pay off loans to establish certain numbers of credit accounts to establish new loans to raise or lower credit card limits and so on. However this advice is generic to all consumers and does not provide information specific to a particular consumer s situation. The question for many consumers then is How is my particular credit data affecting my credit score 

To determine effective actions to take it is often necessary to analyze a consumer s underlying credit information. However paper credit reports are often confusing to consumers and do not explain the effects of particular pieces of data contained within the credit report. Furthermore consumers often do not know how their credit activities affect their credit score or how their credit score is calculated. This translates into consumers struggling to use and analyze their credit information in meaningful ways or develop effective strategies to raise their credit score.

Thus it would be advantageous for consumers to be able to quickly view and understand how credit information and or credit data affects their credit score. In particular it would be advantageous for consumers to be able to visualize their particular credit data and understand how it is affecting their current credit score. It would also be advantageous for consumers to visualize the impact of specific credit data upon their credit score either individually or by category.

Consumers are interacting more every day with mobile devices such as smart phones tablets and the like. However information that consumers traditionally view in the form of printed materials don t optimize interaction capabilities of such mobile devices. Discussed herein are systems and methods for generating user interfaces that display credit information of consumers in manners that are specifically tailored for optimal use on mobile devices such as user interfaces that optimize the user s ability to interface with credit data and to explore such credit data.

In an embodiment a mobile application may display and receive input from various user interfaces including a flippable user interface that displays consumer specific credit information values and high scorers values in a variety of credit categories. High scorers values indicate representative credit information for archetypal individuals who are considered low risk by lenders and or have excellent credit scores. The flippable user interface allows a user to touch a flippable user interface and cause it to display on a reverse side information corresponding to the credit category that explains how that credit category affects their credit score. The mobile application thus enables a user to compare their own credit related scores in various credit categories to the scores of high scorers to determine areas in which their scores are low and may be improved and or areas in which their scores are high.

In an embodiment a computer implemented method of electronic credit data analysis in an electronic environment is disclosed. The method comprises as implemented by one or more computer systems comprising computer hardware and memory the one or more computer systems configured with specific executable instructions receiving a request from a requestor for an electronic consumer credit analysis accessing from an electronic data store over a network consumer credit data associated with a plurality of consumers wherein the requestor is one of the plurality of consumers designating a plurality of high scorers from the plurality of consumers the one or more high scorers each having associated credit scores that exceed a predetermined threshold calculating with a processor for each of one or more credit categories a high scorer score based at least in part on consumer credit data associated with the plurality of high scorers and transmitting over the network to the requestor the electronic consumer credit analysis including the one or more credit categories the one or more high scorer scores for the respective credit categories and consumer credit data associated with the requestor for the respective credit categories.

According to an aspect calculating a high scorer score for a particular category comprises averaging the consumer credit data of the plurality of high scorers within the particular category.

According to another aspect the one or more credit categories includes at least one of a number of maxed out credit cards a number of public records a number of credit inquiries an average credit card limit an average age of accounts a mortgage standing a number of missed payments a number of open credit cards number of installment loans a credit to debt ratio an oldest account age and a credit file update time.

According to yet another aspect the computer implemented method further comprises as further implemented by the one or more computer systems determining a relevant demographic wherein said designating one or more high scorers includes designating only high scorers associated with the relevant demographic.

According to another aspect the relevant demographic includes at least one of an age associated with the requestor a gender associated with the requestor an ethnicity associated with the requestor an employment status associated with the requestor a geographic location associated with the requestor a net worth associated with the requestor and an income level associated with the requestor.

According to yet another aspect the relevant demographic comprises a geographic location associated with the requestor and wherein the geographic location associated with the requestor includes at least one of a neighborhood in which the requestor lives a city in which the requestor lives a county in which the requestor lives a state in which the requestor lives and a country in which the requestor lives.

According to another aspect the computer implemented method further comprises as further implemented by the one or more computer systems causing the electronic consumer credit analysis to be displayed in a user interface on a mobile computing device associated with the requestor.

According to yet another aspect the computer implemented method further comprises determining the one or more credit categories based at least in part on the accessed consumer credit data.

According to another aspect the high scorer score is periodically recalculated and retransmitted to the requestor.

In another embodiment a computer system is disclosed which comprises one or more hardware processors in communication with a computer readable medium storing software modules including instructions that are executable by the one or more hardware processors the software modules including at least a user interface module configured to receive from a consumer a request for a credit score analysis a data collection module configured to retrieve from an electronic credit data store credit information associated with the consumer and a plurality of other consumers and an analysis module configured to determine a set of high scorers from the plurality of other consumers and determine for each of a plurality of score factors a consumer score and a high scorers score wherein the user interface module is further configured to provide to the consumer an analysis comprising for each of the plurality of score factors the consumer score and the high scorers score.

According to an aspect the user interface module is further configured to provide to the consumer for each of the plurality of score factors an indication of whether the score factor positively or negatively impacts a credit score of the consumer.

According to another aspect determining a high scorer score comprises averaging relevant credit information associated with the set of high scorers.

According to yet another aspect the plurality of score factors includes at least one of a number of maxed out credit cards a number of public records a number of credit inquiries an average credit card limit an average age of accounts a mortgage standing a number of missed payments a number of open credit cards number of installment loans a credit to debt ratio an oldest account age and a credit file update time.

According to another aspect the analysis module is further configured to determine a particular demographic wherein the set of high scorers is associated with the particular demographic.

According to yet another aspect the analysis is displayed in a user interface on a mobile computing device associated with the consumer.

In yet another embodiment a non transitory computer storage that comprises executable instructions configured to cause one or more computer processors to perform operations comprises receiving first consumer credit information associated with a consumer wherein the received consumer credit information comprises summary data associated with categories of credit information that impact a credit score of the consumer receiving second credit information relating to a plurality of consumers with credit scores above a predetermined threshold wherein the received second credit information comprises summary data of the plurality of consumers associated with the categories of credit information and generating for display on a touch sensitive computing device a user interface comprising a plurality of panes associated with respective categories of credit information wherein each pane is configured to provide a comparison between the first consumer credit information associated with the respective category and the second credit information associated with the respective category.

According to an aspect each pane is further configured to provide an indication of whether credit information of the consumer in a respective category positively or negatively impacts the credit score of the consumer.

According to another aspect each of the plurality of consumers is associated with a particular demographic population.

According to yet another aspect the particular demographic population includes at least one of an age a gender an ethnicity an employment status a geographic location a net worth and an income level.

A computing device such as a mobile smart phone and or a tablet may display a score factors user interface comprising one or more credit score factor user interface panes that provide context for a consumer s and or user s credit report as illustrated in the examples of . The score factor user interface pane may comprise a description of the type of data to be displayed and or compared that is associated with a summary of credit score inputs. The analysis of this summary of credit score inputs e.g. sometimes known as a summary attribute may be considered a score factor. Score factors are a type of summary data that may influence a consumer s score positively or negatively. For example the user interface element in has the description of a score factor called You have 5 or more credit inquiries which is based on a summary attribute that counts the number of credit inquiries for a particular consumer and also determines an average number of credit inquiries for a group of high scorers. If the summary data indicates that there are 5 of more credit inquiries for a particular consumer then the condition for that score factor is met and the mobile device may display the score factor description.

In some embodiments a score factor user interface pane may also have an indicator associated with whether the particular score factor affects the score positively or negatively. For example score factor user interface element contains an arrow pointing at the bottom of the screen or may have a red color to indicate that a higher number affects the consumer s credit score negatively. Whereas score user interface element contains an arrow pointing at the top of the screen or may have a green color to indicate that a higher number affects the score positively. The categories for the score factors and whether a higher number is more positive or negative e.g. a positive score factor or a negative score factor may be transmitted from a credit bureau data store a credit bureau and or a back end system.

Also displayed within a score factor user interface pane are the values of the consumer s related score factor data and the average data points in the same score factor for a group of high scorers. For example score factor user interface pane for the score factor You have 5 or more inquiries displays the value 6 for the consumer and 2 for the high scorers side by side so that the user can easily know their own value for that category and optionally compare that value between the consumer values and scores of high scorers that can be used as positive guidelines to improve the consumer s score . In general a high scorer is a person who is considered low risk by for example banks and or lenders and or who has an excellent credit score for example an overall credit score between 726 and 830. In an embodiment the term high scorers refers to a group of persons who each have excellent credit scores.

Advantageously the score factor user interface enables a user to compare their own scores in various credit categories to scores of high scorers in the various credit categories. In an embodiment a high scorers score in one of the various categories may be an average of all the high scorers individual scores in the category. Categories also referred to herein as credit categories or score factors in which a user may compare their own score to a high scorers score may include for example a number of maxed out credit cards a number of public records a number of credit inquiries an average credit card limit an average age of accounts a mortgage standing and or a number of missed payments among others.

In an embodiment the credit data analysis system allows the user to compare the user s scores in various categories with scores of high scorers derived from high scorers of a particular demographic and or geographic region. For example a user may be primarily interested in their scores in their own state. The credit data analysis system allows such a user to compare their scores in various credit categories to high scorers located only in their state. Thus the user may advantageously determine credit categories in which they excel and in which they lack as compared to a relevant population of high scorers.

In an embodiment the scores of high scorers and or the user s scores in the various credit categories may periodically be updated. Such updating may be initiated automatically by the user and or it may occur automatically.

A score factor user interface element may be selected via the touch screen interface to reveal more information about the credit score factor. When touched in some embodiments the computing device may display the virtual reverse side of the score factor such as user interface element . The virtual reverse side may comprise explanatory text about how a consumer s score in that particular score factor may affect his overall credit score. Virtual reverse sides may optionally be color coded depending on whether a score factor is positive or negative. If touched again the user interface element may return to the original side to show the score factor description consumer values and high scorers values.

When transitioning to or from the reverse side of the score factor user interface pane the user interface element may appear to flip or rotate either horizontally or vertically on its center vertical or horizontal axis respectively to the reverse side. In some embodiments such a rotation or flip may occur more than once. In some embodiments a rotation or flip may occur several times in succession where the rotation speed slows down over time until the card comes to rest on the reverse side.

The score factor panes displayed on the user device may be selected by the user the computing device the credit bureau and or other backend system such as a credit data analysis server based on which score factors apply to a particular user s credit information. For example the user interface pane has the description You have 5 or more inquiries . This particular score factor may not be selected for display if the number of credit inquiries for the consumer was less than 5. Additionally the order that the user interface panes are displayed may indicate the relative impact or importance of each score factor in determining a consumer s credit score.

In some embodiments when a score factor user interface pane is touched the score factor instead displays to a user the specific credit information inputs that made up the score factor statistic. For example if the user touches the user interface the user device may display information about the associated credit card accounts.

As used herein the terms user individual and or consumer may be used interchangeably and should be interpreted to include users applicants customers single individuals as well as groups of individuals such as for example families married couples or domestic partners and business entities. More particularly the terms user individual and or consumer may refer to an individual subject of the financial services portal system for example an individual person whose financial status and experience are being determined . In general for the sake of clarity the present disclosure usually uses the terms consumer and user to refer to an individual subject of the credit data analysis system.

Embodiments of the disclosure will now be described with reference to the accompanying figures wherein like numerals refer to like elements throughout. The terminology used in the description presented herein is not intended to be interpreted in any limited or restrictive manner simply because it is being utilized in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the disclosure. Furthermore embodiments of the disclosure may include several novel features no single one of which is solely responsible for its desirable attributes or which is essential to practicing the embodiments of the disclosure herein described.

Additionally the credit data analysis server may include a user interface module a data collection module an analysis module a central processing unit CPU a memory a mass storage device I O devices and interfaces and multimedia devices all of which may communicate with one another by way of a communication bus. The credit data analysis server may include an arrangement of computer hardware and software elements that may be used to implement the credit data analysis system. depicts a general architecture of the credit data analysis server but the credit data analysis server may include more or fewer components than those shown in .

The user may communicate with the network through any type of computing device capable of sending and receiving data to and from the credit data analysis server . In an embodiment the computing device operated by the user or with which the user interacts may be a mobile computing device may include a web browser configured to communicate with the user interface module and or may be capable of running mobile applications that may communicate with the credit data analysis server . In an embodiment more than one consumer may interact with the credit data analysis server . For example many users may simultaneously or substantially simultaneously interacts with the credit data analysis server making requests and receiving responses.

The network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. In addition the network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network or combination thereof. Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus need not be described in more detail herein.

The credit data analysis server is a computing device that may perform a variety of tasks to implement the credit data analysis system and may include hardware such as processors memory storage media network interfaces and so on. The operating of the credit data analysis server may be implemented through for example the user interface module the data collection module and the analysis module . The modules of the credit data analysis server may be stored in software or in read only memory or otherwise be accessible to the computing hardware of the financial portal.

In an embodiment the user interface module may enable credit data analysis server to communicate via an HTTP or other network communications protocol. In an embodiment the user interface module is configured to serve one or more webpages to the user that connects to the credit data analysis server . User interface module may also provide features such as data gathering from users authentication email communication telephone and or voice interfaces and or other services as may be used by credit data analysis server . The user interface module may further generate user interfaces for display to the user . Exemplary user interfaces generated by the user interface module are described in reference to .

User interface module may include computer executable portions that are executed by the credit data analysis server and or by a user computing device such as the computing device of . Thus discussion herein of operations performed by the user interface module may be performed entirely by the credit data analysis server entirely by the computing device or some portions may be performed by the credit data analysis server while other portions are performed by the computing device . Furthermore other computing systems may also perform all or some of the processes discussed with reference to the user interface module .

In one embodiment the user interface module may access data from data collection module or credit bureau data store and use that data to construct user interfaces that assist the user in understanding his or her credit score and how the underlying data is used to construct a credit score. Such information may be presented to the end user and is designed to be easily manipulated and or understood by the user. In an embodiment the user interfaces transmitted by user interface module are interactive. Various embodiments of the user interfaces that may be provided by user interface module including score factor user interface panes that are shown and described throughout this specification.

User interface module may be configured to construct user interfaces of various types. In an embodiment user interface module constructs web pages to be displayed in a web browser or computer mobile application. The web pages may in an embodiment be specific to a type of device such as a mobile device or a desktop web browser to maximize usability for the particular device. In an embodiment user interface module may also interact with a client side application such as a mobile phone application an app or a standalone desktop application and provide data to the application as necessary to display underlying credit score information.

In an embodiment the credit data analysis server may further include data collection module . The data collection module may perform various tasks of gathering and or collecting data for the credit data analysis system. The data collection module may provide a consistent interface for external services and databases such as financial services credit bureau services and the like to interact with the credit data analysis server . For example the credit data analysis server may retrieve credit data including categories and attributes associated with the credit data from the credit bureau data store via the data collection module . In an embodiment the data collection module may include an application programming interface API that may enable the credit data analysis server to receive data from external services and databases and may further enable external services and databases to retrieve data about a user from the credit data analysis server . It may also enable external services and databases such as the credit bureau data store to provide information to the credit data analysis server such as updated credit data including related categories and attributes related to the user .

The credit bureau data store may include information and data related to the credit of many individuals including the user. In an embodiment the credit bureau data store may comprise one or more credit bureaus and their databases which usually receive information from raw data sources such as banks and creditors. In an embodiment the credit bureau data store is in communication with the credit data analysis server over the network . In an embodiment the credit bureau data store is in communication with the credit data analysis server over a dedicated and or secure data channel. In an embodiment the credit bureau data store is operated by a credit bureau.

In an embodiment credit data is gathered on demand as required by the credit data analysis system. In another embodiment credit data is gathered on a periodic basis independent of requests for information from the credit data analysis server . In another embodiment credit data is stored on the credit data analysis system for example in a client computing device and or data collection module in which case retrieval of credit data from a credit bureau may not be necessary. The credit data may include a complete credit report about a consumer summary data such as credit attributes also referred to as credit variables that are calculated using various modules such as Experian s STAGG standard aggregation variables credit data inputs to calculate a complete or partial credit score credit card data public record data credit inquiry data bank account data loan data mortgage data line of credit data payment data and the like. Each credit data input may be associated with a particular score factor. A score factor is a value that is known to impact credit score. Examples of score factors are described elsewhere herein. In some embodiments the data collection module may calculate summary attributes e.g. STAGG attributes or perform other modifications on the credit report or other credit data gathered to determine a score factor. In some embodiments a score factor value may be a summary or STAGG attribute value.

In an embodiment the credit bureau data store may be embodied in hard disk drives solid state memories and or any other type of non transitory computer readable storage medium remotely or locally accessible to the credit data analysis server . The credit bureau data store may also be distributed or partitioned across multiple storage devices as is known in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

In an embodiment the data collection module may also gather explanatory text information about how a credit score is calculated. This may include description text algorithms formulas executable code statistical variables and the like. This information may be used to understand the significance of a score factor in calculating a credit score. This may include an indication of whether a higher or lower value of a particular score factor positively or negatively impacts a credit score. In an embodiment the explanatory text and positive or negative indications may be retrieved from the credit bureau data store on an on demand basis as needed by the credit score factor computing system. In another embodiment the models and or algorithms are retrieved on a periodic basis. In another embodiment the credit score factor computing system internally stores the models and or algorithms for example stored on a client computing device .

In an embodiment the analysis module may enable the credit data analysis server to determine credit scores credit categories score factors demographic groups geographic locations and or regions high scorers groups and or scores of high scorers among others. The analysis module may use data from the data collection module . Furthermore the user interface module may communicate with analysis module in order retrieve the various values scores and inputs previously mentioned.

Multimedia devices may include for example an optional display and or an optional input device. The optional display and optional input device may be used in embodiments in which users interact directly with the credit data analysis server . The I O devices and interfaces may include a network interface among other devices that may provide the credit data analysis server with connectivity to one or more networks or computing systems. For example the network interface may communicate over the network with the credit bureau data store and or the user . The CPU may thus receive information and instructions from other computing systems or services through a network. The CPU may also communicate with memory and further provide output information for the multimedia devices . The I O devices and interfaces may accept input from the optional input device such as a keyboard mouse digital pen touch screen or gestures recorded via motion capture. The I O devices and interfaces may also output audio data to speakers or headphones not shown .

The memory contains computer program instructions that the CPU executes in order to implement one or more embodiments of the credit data analysis system. The memory generally includes RAM ROM and or other persistent or non transitory computer readable storage media. The memory may store an operating system software such as Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 Windows 8 Windows Server Unix Linux SunOS Solaris Macintosh OS X or other compatible and or proprietary operating systems that provides computer program instructions for use by the CPU in the general administration and operation of the credit data analysis server . The memory may further include other information for implementing aspects of the credit data analysis system.

For example in one embodiment the user interface module the data collection module and or the analysis module may be implemented in the memory . The user interface module the data collection module and the analysis module as implemented in the memory may facilitate the same tasks as those described.

In an embodiment the user interface module the data collection module and or the analysis module may be stored in the mass storage device as executable software codes that are executed by the CPU . The modules may include by way of example components such as software components object oriented software components class components and task components processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware microcode circuitry data databases data structures tables arrays and variables.

In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example Java Lua C or C . A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. It will be appreciated that software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software modules configured for execution on computing devices may be provided on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc digital video disc flash drive or any other tangible medium. Such software code may be stored partially or fully on a memory device of the executing computing device such as the credit data analysis server for execution by the computing device. Software instructions may be embedded in firmware such as an EPROM. It will be further appreciated that hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but may be represented in hardware or firmware. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage.

In some embodiments the functionality of the credit data analysis server may be implemented partially or entirely by a computing device and or mobile computing device operated by for example the user . Accordingly the user computing device may include the user interface module the data collection module the analysis module and or other components that operate similarly to the components illustrated as part of the credit data analysis server including a CPU network interface mass storage device I O devices and interfaces memory and so forth.

Many of the devices described herein are optional in various embodiments and embodiments of the credit data analysis system may or may not combine devices. Moreover any computing devices operated by user and or the credit data analysis server may each be embodied in a plurality of devices each executing an instance of the respective devices. However devices need not be distinct or discrete. Devices may also be reorganized in the credit data analysis system. For example the credit data analysis server may be represented in a single physical server or alternatively may be split into multiple physical servers. The entirety of the functions of the credit data analysis server may be represented in a single user computing device as well. Additionally it should be noted that in some embodiments the functionality of the credit data analysis server is provided by one more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment.

The computing device and or mobile computing device operated by the user and described above may be any computing device capable of communicating over the network such as a laptop or tablet computer personal computer personal digital assistant PDA hybrid PDA mobile phone mobile phone in vehicle computer device or navigation system global positioning system GPS device electronic book reader set top box camera audiobook player digital media player video game console in store kiosk television one or more processors integrated components for inclusion in computing devices appliances electronic devices for inclusion in vehicles or machinery gaming devices or the like.

The exemplary data flow of includes the credit data analysis server the credit bureau data store the network depicted by the dotted line the user and a client computing device which may be operated by the user . The credit data analysis server further includes the user interface module the data collection module and the analysis module as described in reference to above.

The computing device may be an end user computing device that comprises one or more processors able to execute programmatic instructions. Examples of such a computing device are a desktop computer workstation a smart phone such as the apple iPhone a computer laptop a tablet PC such as the iPad a video game console or any other device of a similar nature. In some embodiments the computing device may comprise a touch screen that allows a user to communicate input to the device using their finger s or a stylus on a display screen. The computing device or any of the computing systems described herein such as credit data analysis server as described in reference to may comprise storage systems such as a hard drive or memory or comprise any other non transitory data storage medium. The storage systems may be configured to store executable instructions that may be executed by one or more processors to perform computerized operations on the client computing device accept data input from a user e.g. on the touch screen and or provide output to a user using the display. These executable instructions may be transmitted to another device for execution or processing by the device to implement the systems and methods described herein. In an embodiment the computing device may comprise software and or hardware that implements the user interface module . The computing device may be in communication with the credit data analysis server and or the credit bureau data store via the network .

The computing device may also comprise one or more client program applications such as a mobile app e.g. iPhone or Android app that may be used by a consumer to understand their credit score and initiate the sending and receiving of messages in the credit data analysis system. This app may be distributed e.g. downloaded over the network to the client computing device directly from a credit bureau from the credit data analysis server from data collection module or from various third parties such as an apple iTunes repository. In some embodiments the application may comprise a set of visual interfaces that may comprise templates to display a consumer s credit data information from a credit report or associated attributes in score factor categories. In some embodiments as described above user interfaces may be downloaded from another server or service such as the credit data analysis server . This may comprise downloading web page or other HTTP HTTPS data from a web server and rendering it through the app . In some embodiments no special app need be downloaded and the entire interface may be transmitted from a remote Internet server to computing device such as transmission from a web server that is a part of the credit data analysis server to an iPad and rendered within the iPad s browser.

Beginning with interaction 1 the computing device may transmit to credit data analysis server a request for credit data via the user interface module . The requested credit data may include items such as a score factors user interface including one or more score factor user interface panes with credit categories scores related to the user and high scorers that may be generated based on underlying credit data. Such underlying credit data may include a score factor credit report credit score credit attributes and or explanatory information regarding how attributes are calculated based underlying credit data and or how attributes impact the credit score. In some embodiments attributes that summarize credit data e.g. summary attributes or summary credit information fitting a particular category may be considered a score factor. The request may also include a request for an indication of whether a particular score factor e.g. credit attribute positively or negatively affects credit score.

The request may also comprise a request for high scorers information. High scorers information may comprise average summary data such as attributes matching a score factor that are calculated by averaging data in that credit category from a group of high scorers. A high scorer may be considered a consumer that has a credit score above a certain threshold and or has some other attributes that are envied by a typical consumer. High scorers data may be associated with a particular demographic group such as a geographic area and may summarize average credit data for high scorers within the demographic group.

In some embodiments such a request may be accompanied with an authentication or authorization request. For example in some embodiments access to credit data may be restricted based on user identification. An authentication scheme may comprise submitting a user name and password to the credit data analysis server or any other authentication mechanism known by those skilled in the art. The authentication request may have occurred prior to the request for data access and or during the request. In some embodiments although a user may authenticate only certain users will be authorized to receive credit report data. For example the credit data analysis server may comprise memory storing a list of users or types of users that may gain access to their credit data such as paying users. In some embodiments no authentication is necessary and credit data may be freely accessed by all users. Such a request may also include a request for the algorithms or user interfaces that may be used by an app or browser to render and interact with the requested credit data.

In some embodiments some functionality may be accessible by unauthenticated users and other functionality only accessible to authenticated users. The authenticated and unauthenticated sections may have the same features similar features or different features. In an embodiment the authenticated section offers additional features not available in the unauthenticated section. For example credit data or credit related information is used in the various systems and methods described herein. This information may be stored in member accounts or automatically retrieved based on member account data. In such an embodiment the credit related information may be automatically pre populated so that members need not enter that information while unauthenticated users would enter their information manually.

In interaction 2 of the credit data analysis server via the data collection module may retrieve the requested information and or calculate the requested information from the credit bureau data store whether maintained by a credit bureau or another entity authorized to provide credit data . In some embodiments the data collection module upon receiving a request from the computing device may retrieve or calculate a credit report credit score attributes explanatory data and or high scorers data from its local storage and fulfill the access request without consulting a credit bureau.

For example the data collection module may have previously received a credit report and credit score from a credit bureau for that user and would have the report cached in its local storage. Alternatively previously retrieved and or calculated scores of high scorers and data may be stored locally. In some embodiments the credit report and score may be periodically retrieved for users from a credit bureau in order to have it locally on file. Alternatively or in combination the data collection module may retrieve in real time the credit report credit score high scorers data and or summary credit attributes from the credit bureau data store . Any credit information required in the various embodiments such as explanatory information information about how a credit score is calculated summary data credit reports credit score high scorers data etc. may be retrieved periodically and on demand or cached in this manner.

The data collection module may also calculate any attributes required by the user interfaces implemented by the user interface module if any are required outside of default summary attributes . For example summary credit attributes may be calculated by credit bureaus that summarize credit data. These summary credit attributes can be requested along with or as an alternate to a credit report or credit score. However the data collection module may also compile the summary attributes based on the credit report or calculate custom attributes based on the credit report. For example one summary attribute may comprise a calculation of the amount of available credit for a consumer. Such an attribute may be calculated based upon summing up all of the un used credit available in a consumer s accounts. This final figure may then be associated with the credit report and stored in the data gathering module for later transfer to a client computing device . These calculations may be performed on demand or periodically. In an embodiment attribute calculation and or credit category calculations may be performed by the analysis module .

In addition to retrieving credit reports scores and or attributes the data collection module may in some embodiments retrieve explanatory text about how the attributes involved may impact a credit score and indications of whether a high or low value in an attribute may impact a credit score. These may be stored locally on disk within the data collection module or retrieved from credit bureau data store and or other credit database. For example explanatory text and or indicators may be retrieved from the credit bureau data store and or known in advance by the data collection module . Based on the retrieved information the data collection module and or the user interface module may alter or generate a score factors user interface and or other user interface to reflect this information. For example as shown in one summary attribute may be how many maxed out credit cards a consumer has 502. Explanatory text such as the text that appears in pane may be used in a score factors user interface.

After retrieving and or calculating the information interaction 3 of illustrates the retrieved and or calculated data being provided to the analysis module such that the retrieved and or calculated data may be parsed further calculations may be performed and or high scorers information may be determined. In an embodiment a high scorer is a person who is considered low risk by for example banks and or lenders and or who has an excellent credit score for example an overall credit score between 726 and 830. A high scorer may also be referred to as a score master and or an expert. In an embodiment the term high scorers may refer to a group of persons who each have excellent credit scores. Thus in some embodiments a group of high scorers is determined by the analysis module and score factors and or attributes in a number of credit categories for the high scorers are determined. In an embodiment the high scorers group may be determined based on some demographic criteria such as a geographic location. In some embodiments the high scorers group that is used in comparison to a particular consumer may be determined by a particular consumer. For example a particular consumer may want to be compared to a group of individuals in the consumer s ZIP Code that all have credit scores above 800 while another consumer may want to be compared to a group of individuals in the consumer s ZIP Code that all have credit scores between 600 and 700. The process of determining scores of high scorers is described further in reference to below. Additionally analysis module determines scores and or attributes associated with the user in a number of credit categories. The determined scores and other analyzed data is then transmitted back to the user interface module .

In an embodiment the analysis module may store the received credit information and parse the credit report credit score attributes explanatory text indications or high scorers data that may be required to render the user interface in various embodiments. This may include organizing in a data structure one or more received attributes and other received information into such as explanatory text and indications by association. For example the credit data analysis system may match appropriate description text explanatory text attribute and or category values for the user and the high scorers and indications together. The system may be pre programmed to recognize certain attributes as information for score factor categories to be used and prepare the data structures appropriately. In some embodiments the received information will also indicate which attributes to use and which score factor user interfaces to show based on a selection of score factors made by the credit data analysis server or a credit bureau. Any additional attributes or summarization data may be calculated if needed based on the credit report or accompanying information for use in the user interfaces.

In interaction 4 of a user interface including the user s credit data and high scorers credit data in each of multiple categories is transmitted to the computing device via the network . This information may be transmitted using a text credit report format an XML format using web services APIs or any other organized data structure or protocol for transferring the information between the credit data analysis server and the computing device . Alternatively this information may be transmitted to the computing device as a part of a web page and accompanying web page user interfaces to be rendered with an app or a browser such as software code configured to generate the various visual features of the credit summary user interface discussed herein. In this embodiment the credit data analysis system may act as a web page or web site configured to provide static scriptable or executable code and data that may be used to implement the entire invention even with a computing device only capable of web browsing. In an embodiment the user interface module is located in the computing device and thus only the credit data is transmitted to the computing device where a user interface is provided.

In an embodiment the computing device displays a score factors user interface also known as a flippable score factor pane user interface where each score factor pane is based upon a selected summary or custom attribute that may use associated explanatory text positive or negative indicators a short description a display of the attribute s value and high scorers information. By way of example illustrate score factor user interfaces that may be used in some embodiments.

Optionally in some embodiments the summarized data score factor information displayed in each score factor user interface pane may be linkable to a displayable portion of a credit report on the computing device . For example by touching a specific piece of data within a score factor user interface pane or the score factors user interface the user may be automatically directed to a portion of the user s credit report displaying detailed information related to the score factor. With reference to for example if the text You do not have any maxed out credit cards was touched the computing device and or credit data analysis system may direct the user to a portion of their credit report listing all credit card account information including each individual credit limit for each account and or other data related to the user s total credit limit. Advantageously this allows a user to easily browse and visualize a high level overview of their credit data and drill down into their detailed credit report for further information. Alternatively upon touching the text the user may be directed to an indication of the source of the high scorers score for example the attributes associated with the members of the determined high scorers group.

The credit data analysis system may be separate from a credit bureau or credit bureau data store . One of the purposes of the credit data analysis system is to interface with the credit bureau or any database that has data that will eventually be used in a user interface by computing device . The credit data analysis system may request and extract the appropriate credit data for a specific consumer based on a user using the computing device . This allows for a single point of contact for computing device interaction. The credit data analysis system can then be configured to request from and receive data from credit bureaus or other credit databases.

Alternatively the credit data analysis system may be executed by a credit bureau itself. In this case the credit report system and the credit bureau functionality may be combined with no need to transfer data over a wide area network between them. In some embodiments the client computing device may be configured to interact directly with a credit bureau over a network to access a credit report and summary attributes. In this case any custom attribute creation or processing needed must be performed by the computing device .

In general credit bureaus make their data available to consumers and businesses usually for but not limited to the purpose of checking a consumer s credit history and credit score. A credit bureau s credit report may include among other things data concerning payment history such as current accounts and late payments credit usage and availability the age of financial accounts the types of financial accounts and inquiries into credit reports or credit scores. This data may be collected from one or more raw data sources which may comprise information from consumers banks mortgagors lenders creditors services utilities public records and other institutions where a consumer holds a financial account. The data may include a status of each account such as when the last bill was paid how late a recent payment is or how behind a consumer is on their account a payment history the available credit allowed in an account the account balance and when an account was opened and or closed among other credit information.

Beginning at block a request is received from the user or consumer for consumer credit information. The request may specify for example that the user would like to view credit information and comparison of the consumers credit information to a group of high scorers such as in the sample user interface of . The request may be transmitted by the computing device to the credit data analysis server for example. The request may be issued by sending it over an electronic wide area network such as the Internet. The credit bureau receives this request and may if necessary charge and or authenticate the requestor by methods known in the art.

Then at block the credit data analysis server accesses consumer credit data associated with the user s request. For example the accessed data may include credit data a credit report and or associated attributes of the consumer as well as similar data for one or more high scorers. The data may be retrieved from the credit bureau data store and or or a credit bureau by the data collection module for example. The credit data provided to the data collection module may in an embodiment comprise data and or information precollected from raw data sources.

Also in block the credit data analysis system may in an embodiment either access or retrieve cached precalculated and or precompiled credit data specific to a consumer such as a credit report score attributes about the consumer score factors that apply specific to the consumer explanatory text related to each attribute score factor a positive or negative indication for each score factor. For example based on information periodically collected by the credit bureau from raw data sources disclosed above the credit bureau may have precompiled credit information into a credit report and other related credit information in advance.

Alternatively this information may be determined based on information accessed and compiled in block . For example in some embodiments the credit bureau and or the data collection module may use the accessed credit information to calculate a credit score usually based on a proprietary formula. The credit bureau may also calculate and or create the attributes that are often associated with a credit report. These attributes may be summary variables attributes that may correspond to a score factor that summarize data related to individual accounts. For example one STAGG attribute an example type of summary attribute may be a calculation of the total max credit for all credit card accounts which may correspond to a score factor. A positive or negative indication or explanatory text of each score factor may be determined or accessed based on how the formula uses the score factor to determine its credit score.

Next at optional block the credit data analysis system may optionally determine a high scorers population of interest. In an embodiment the user may specify through the computing device a particular demographic of interest to the user. Such as specification may be included in the request provided to the credit data analysis system. For example the user may only be interested in comparing their own credit scores and or attributes to others that are located in a similar geographic region. In another example the user may only be interested in a comparison with others having a similar income level to the user. Examples of demographics that may be specified may include but are not limited to gender ethnicity employment status geographic location net worth and income level among others. Examples of geographic locations that may be specified may include but are not limited to a neighborhood a city a county a state and a country. In an embodiment one or more demographics may be specified. In an embodiment the demographic specified may be associated with the user manually and or automatically. For example the credit data analysis system may automatically determine based on the user s credit data for example the user s gender address and or income level among other examples. The system may then automatically specify the relevant demographic for example the population of individuals in the user s home state.

At block high scorers values are determined and or accessed if they were previously determined . Analysis module may determine high scorers values for relevant demographics if a demographic populations was specified using the data retrieved and or accessed in block . As mentioned above in general a high scorer is a person who is considered low risk by for example banks and or lenders and who has an excellent credit score for example an overall credit score between 726 and 830. In an embodiment the term high scorers refers to a group of persons who each have excellent credit scores. In another embodiment high scorers may refer to a group of persons that taken together on average have an excellent credit score. In an embodiment the group of high scorers may be limited to individuals having associated characteristics that fall within the specified demographic as described above .

In some embodiments one or more high scorer s credit statistics may be used to identify characteristics about good credit scores. A high scorer is a broad term but may refer to a member of the high scorers group that is comprised of a group of consumers that have high credit scores. For example a threshold credit score such as 726 or above may be selected as a high scorer credit score by an administrator and or automatically by the credit data analysis system. If a consumer s score is 726 or above he or she may be considered a member of the high scorers set. Additional factors may also be used to determine if a consumer is a member of the high scorers set such as whether a consumer is considered low risk by lenders. Additionally as described above in the instance in which a demographic population is provided only those high scorers having the relevant characteristics may be considered part of the high scorers set. In an embodiment the threshold credit score may be predetermined by the credit data analysis system a credit bureau and or a user of the credit data analysis system such as the user . In an embodiment the threshold credit score may be 850 840 830 820 810 800 790 780 760 750 740 730 720 710 700 690 680 660 650 640 630 620 610 600 590 550 and or any other credit score.

Once the high scorers group or set is determined in some embodiments the average inputs for a high scorer that are useful for comparison are calculated. For example some embodiments may determine the average maxed out credit cards for a high scorer the average mortgages in good standing for a high scorer the average amount of public records attributed to a high scorer the average age of accounts for a high scorer the average payments missed the average number of credit inquiries per month among others. These averages may be based on mean median or mode or other complex criteria used to determine a typical value for a member of the high scorers set. The calculated values may be averaged of the entire group of high scorers for example.

These average values once calculated may be used for comparison to a consumer s credit score such as the credit score of the data collection module . For example if the data collection module has six credit inquiries and a high scorer has typically two credit inquires showing this comparison to a user may give the user the idea to lower their credit inquiries so that their credit score inputs align more closely to a high scorers resulting in a potentially higher credit score. In as embodiment credit scores or score factors are calculated for a number of different credit categories which are described below in reference to . While averages of credit attributes of high scorers are discussed herein in other embodiments other or additional mathematical operations may be applied to aggregate data associated with multiple high scorers such as an arithmetic mean median mode standard deviation range etc. of a group of consumers that meet the high scorers criteria whether default criteria set by the system or custom criteria set by a consumer .

Comparison either to the threshold credit score for a high scorer or comparison of the inputs to high scorers can be used to determine whether a user of the simulation or visualization of credit data is on track to be a high scorer or is already a high scorer. For example having a number of credit score inputs that are better than a high scorer s input such as having one credit inquiry per month whereas the average for high scorer s is two may determine whether a user should be given a special status such as the title high scorer or receive a progress indicator or badge indicators that show high scorer status for all one or some credit score input categories. Examples of high scorer comparisons may be seen in which are described below.

In an embodiment high scorers information is provided from the credit bureau data store . For example high scorers values may be precalculated by the credit bureau and stored in the credit bureau data store where they may be accessed by the data collection module . In an embodiment high scorers values may be cached by the credit data analysis server for rapid reuse.

At block the complied information including the consumer credit information and scores and the high scorers values and scores may be transmitted to the computing device for display in a user interface to the user . In other embodiments the actual credit data may not be transmitted to the computing device and rather software code e.g. HTML Java Perl Ruby Python etc. may be transmitted to the computing device . For example code that is usable by the computing device to render the user interface may be transmitted without transmitting a data structure that separately includes the actual credit data. In some embodiments the system distinguishes between the initial transmission of credit data required for user interfaces and subsequent transmissions of user interface data so that it may transmit only portions that are necessary to update a score factor user interface for new credit data. This may be done for example using an XMLHttpRequest XHR mechanism a data push interface or other communication protocols.

Starting at block consumer credit data is accessed by the credit data analysis system in substantially the same way as described in reference to block of . Then at optional block if one or more demographic populations have been specified as described in reference to block of the accessed credit data is organized according to the demographic. Thus for example if the user has specified a geographic location including the State of California credit data that falls into that geographic location will be assembled.

Next at block the high scorers group or set members are determined. This step is accomplished substantially as described in reference to block of . In general only those individuals considered to have excellent credit and or to be low risk are determined to be high scorers. The high scorers group may be further defined by any demographic specification that may have optionally been provided. Continuing with the example above only individuals who for example reside in California may be selected by the credit data analysis system.

At block for each of the credit categories described above and as further listed and described below scores of high scorers are calculated from the determined group of high scorers.

In an embodiment scores of high scorers may periodically be updated as indicated by the arrow . Periodically updating the scores of high scorers provides the user with up to date comparisons between their own credit scores and the archetypal scores of high scorers. In an embodiment the user s scores may also be updated periodically. In an embodiment the high scorers and or users scores are updated yearly quarterly monthly weekly and or daily among other time periods.

In an embodiment credit categories and or score factors may be predetermined by the credit bureau and or the credit data analysis system. Alternatively credit categories and or score factors may be determined by the credit data analysis server during the determination of the user s credit scores. For example the credit data analysis server may determine relevant credit categories based on the specified demographic population and or the user s credit data. In an embodiment more or fewer of the credit categories for which scores are calculated may be displayed to the user.

As described above illustrate two alternative sample score factors user interfaces and for a specific individual consumer who in some embodiments may be the user of the client computing device . The embodiments of show alternative layouts which may include listing more or fewer score factors. Various summary attributes score factors and other data related may be displayed in addition to score factor user interface panes. For example an area of the user interface may display high scorer information and or the total number of score factors displayed including the number of helping score factors affecting the specific consumer s score and the number of hurting score factors affecting the specific consumer s score . In addition the user interface may display the consumer s credit score and including a grading of the value of the credit score such as high medium low risk etc. and how up to date the credit report data being used is regarding this consumer e.g. how recently the consumer s credit data was downloaded from credit data analysis system or credit bureau . As described above the factors may be listed by whether they are helping factors or hurting factors or they may be listed in some others assortment . In addition a visual indicator may be associated with helping or hurting factors such as an up or green color arrow for a helping factor or a down or red color arrow for a hurting factor . The user interface may also include the score factor panes such as and front side displayed and reverse side displayed which may be manipulated as described above.

In this embodiment high scorers values are displayed next to the user s credit values for each credit category or score factor . For example in the maxed out credit cards pane indicates the user s score is zero while the high scorers score is also zero. Thus because the user s score is the same as the high scorers score this score factor is contributing positively to the user s overall credit score and a green up arrow is displayed. In another example the credit inquiries pane indicates that the user has more credit inquiries than the high scorers and thus a red down arrow is displayed because this score factor is contributing negatively to the user s overall credit score. In other embodiment other indicators may indicate whether a score factor is helping or hurting the user s overall credit score. For example the user interface may include other colored elements such as colored text and or graphics or icons among other possibilities.

In some embodiments areas within the score factor user interface panes may be functionally linked to detailed explanatory information and or information in a consumer s credit report. For example in the user may select the arrow to view additional explanatory information related to that score factor. In another example for the score factor You do not have any maxed out credit cards displayed in the 0 attribute under the You text may be linkable to explanatory information and or more detailed information in the consumer s credit report. By touching or clicking on the You or 0 or any other appropriate related area a user may be redirected to a second user interface such as the one shown at or to one that shows a consumer s credit accounts including the consumer s credit cards that are not maxed out under the score factor. In this manner a user may be able to dive straight into the credit report data that is impacting their credit score in a way described by the score factor.

Score factors or credit categories may cover a variety of summary credit categories that affect a user s credit score. For example score factors may include but are not limited to those listed in the table below.

In other embodiments more or fewer score factors may be used. The condition levels may be different in other embodiments. For example the condition level for a positive impact on a consumer s credit scores based on credit used may be 10 rather than the 16 listed in the table above.

Each of these score factors may have associated explanatory text that may be viewed in order to reveal more information related to that score factor such as how the score factor condition is affecting a user s credit score. In some embodiments the score factor explanatory text may also display a measure of the impact of this particular score factor on your credit score. For example it may show that absent this score factor applying to the consumer s credit score the consumer s credit score would have gone up or done by a certain number of points.

In some embodiments badges may be awarded to a consumer based on the consumer meeting or exceeding the average high scorers score in the score factor categories. Such score badges may be displayed on each score factor user interface pane in the form of an icon. The icon may appear on the score factor user interface pane when the consumer has met score factor related conditions

For example in some embodiments a consumer may receive a certain badge appearing on a score factor when they meet a preset threshold associated with the score factor value. This preset threshold may correspond to the conditional value required to display the score factor or this preset threshold may correspond to a different threshold value. The preset threshold may also correspond to meeting or exceeding a high scorer value. In some embodiments more than one badge may be associated with a score factor where each badge corresponds to a different threshold. For example some score factors may have gold silver and bronze badges where the gold badge may correspond to a score factor threshold value that will give the best effect on the credit score and the silver and bronze badges correspond to thresholds of lesser positive impact on credit score.

The badges for a consumer may be publicized to a user s Facebook account or twitter or any other social media or website via application program interfaces for automatically sending and posting data to those sources among other methods. In addition some embodiments may provide an overall high scorer status based upon meeting the high scorer thresholds for a set number of score factors or reaching a certain level of credit score. Some embodiments may also include configurable notifications SMS text email sound phone when awarded a score factor badge or otherwise reaching a score factor threshold.

In some embodiments badges need not be used but any reward mechanism may be used to signify to a consumer or the public that the consumer has met predetermined thresholds related to score factor conditions. For example instead of earning badges a consumer may receive gift certificates special promotions and coupons ribbons digital property in games etc.

The badges may be calculated and tracked either on the computing device or by a credit bureau or the credit data analysis system and transferred to other computing systems such as Facebook via electronic communication over network for additional display.

In an embodiment the credit data analysis system may instead of identifying high scorers and providing comparisons between the consumer s score and scores of high scorers identify low scorers and provide comparisons between the consumer s score and scores of low scorers. For example the credit data analysis system may identify one or more low scorers as individuals having credit scores below a particular threshold. The credit data analysis system may next determine scores of the low scorers in one or more of various credit categories in a similar manner as described above in reference to high scorers . Then the credit data analysis system may display the consumer s scores next to the scores of the low scorers for a comparison. In an embodiment the credit data analysis system may indicate categories e.g. score factors in which the consumer s scores are similar to scores of the low scorers and that are thus hurting the consumer s overall credit score. Similarly the credit data analysis system may indicate categories e.g. score factors in which the consumer s scores are different from scores of the low scorers and that may not be affecting or helping the consumer s overall credit score. In various embodiment the credit data analysis system may display the consumer s scores across any number of score factors in comparison scores of high scorers low scorers average scorers e.g. individuals having average scores and or any other scorers group along the spectrum from high to low.

Advantageously the credit data analysis system and the score factor user interface enables a user to compare their own scores in various credit categories to scores of high scorers in the various credit categories. In an embodiment the credit data analysis system advantageously allows the user to compare the user s scores in various categories with scores of high scorers derived from high scorers of a particular demographic and or geographic region. Thus the user may advantageously determine credit categories in which they excel and in which they lack as compared to a relevant population of high scorers. Further scores of high scorers may advantageously be updated periodically thus providing the user of the credit data analysis system with constantly up to date score comparisons.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the processes or algorithms described herein may be performed in a different sequence may be added may be merged and or may be left out altogether for example not all described operations or events are necessary for the practice of the process or algorithm . Moreover in certain embodiments operations or events may be performed concurrently for example through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules routines and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. The described functionality may be implemented in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the disclosure.

The steps of a method process routine or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of a non transitory computer readable storage medium. An example storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor may read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may for example and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is to be understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or a combination thereof. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it may be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or processes illustrated may be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As may be recognized certain embodiments of the inventions described herein may be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features may be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of certain inventions disclosed herein is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

