---

title: System and method for localizing medical instruments during cardiovascular medical procedures
abstract: A system and method for localizing medical instruments during cardiovascular medical procedures is described. One embodiment comprises an electromagnetic field generator; an antenna reference instrument adapted to be introduced into the heart of a subject and including at least one electromagnetic sensor and at least one electrode; at least one roving instrument adapted to be introduced into the thorax cavity of the subject and including at least one electrode; and a control unit configured to determine position coordinates of the antenna reference instrument based on an electromagnetic signal from the electromagnetic field generator sensed by the electromagnetic sensor, measure an electrical-potential difference between the electrode of the antenna reference instrument and the electrode of the roving instrument, and calibrate the measured electrical-potential difference using the determined position coordinates of the antenna reference instrument to determine position coordinates of the roving instrument.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510772&OS=09510772&RS=09510772
owner: CardioNXT, Inc.
number: 09510772
owner_city: Westminster
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130122
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to commonly owned and assigned U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 622 220 entitled Integrated Multi Localizer Cardiovascular Navigation System and Associated Method which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

The present invention relates generally to systems and methods that aid physicians in performing surgical procedures on patients. More specifically the invention relates to systems and methods for localizing medical instruments within a subject during cardiovascular medical procedures.

Medical procedures to treat cardiovascular diseases are becoming less invasive in nature such that a physician can insert a small medical device into a subject through a small incision and navigate the device through vasculature to the heart and the specific treatment site. One result is that the physician requires specialized tools to see where the device is travelling as well as the destination treatment location. Stereotactic navigation is the field of taking pre acquired images of the anatomy of interest and using localization systems to track medical instruments with respect to the pre acquired imaging. Stereotactic navigation requires position sensing capabilities to be able to locate and track the medical instruments within the human body and display the position with respect to other medical imagery like x ray CT MRI ultrasound and electrocardiogram maps.

Current position sensing systems suffer from several issues. Position sensing systems need to provide flexibility to localize many different instruments based on physician preference and accuracy in inhomogeneous tissues such as bone air blood muscle and fat as those tissue characteristics change with breathing and heart beat. The balance of accuracy and flexibility is very difficult to achieve. Electromagnetic position sensing systems are often accurate systems because they do not depend on the tissue characteristics of the living body. However electromagnetic systems are very proprietary in nature and require proprietary electromagnetic sensors embedded in every instrument used during the procedure that the physician needs to localize. Electrical potential position sensing systems are typically very flexible in their ability to track different instruments in an open architecture manner using standard electrodes integrated into many medical instruments. However the accuracy of electrical potential systems is poor because they are susceptible to the varying tissue impedance changes due to breathing and heartbeat.

Attempts to combine the accuracy of electromagnetic localization and flexibility of electrical potential localization have so far failed to provide a system that overcomes the issues of the separate systems. Current hybrid position sensing systems aim to calibrate a volume localized by electrical potential localization to a volume localized by electromagnetic localization with a single instrument with respect to body surface electrodes and use that calibration to track other instruments in a common calibrated volume. However any calibration of electromagnetic localization field to electrical potential localization field calculated by the single instrument is valid only at a particular point in time correlated with a particular point in a breathing cycle and heart beat cycle or is an average over time that is not particularly accurate at any given single point in time. The result is a gated position sensing system that is only accurate periodically.

Thus a need exists for improved systems and methods of localizing medical instruments within a subject during minimally invasive cardiovascular medical procedures.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the Invention or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications equivalents and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.

In one illustrative embodiment a position sensing system comprises an electromagnetic field generator an antenna reference instrument adapted to be introduced into the heart of a subject the antenna reference instrument including at least one electromagnetic sensor and at least one electrode at least one roving instrument adapted to be introduced into the thorax cavity of the subject the at least one roving instrument including at least one electrode and a control unit configured to determine position coordinates of the antenna reference instrument based on an electromagnetic signal from the electromagnetic field generator sensed by the at least one electromagnetic sensor measure an electrical potential difference between the at least one electrode of the antenna reference instrument and the at least one electrode of the at least one roving instrument and calibrate the measured electrical potential difference using the determined position coordinates of the antenna reference instrument to determine position coordinates of the at least one roving instrument.

Another illustrative embodiment is a method for sensing the position of a medical instrument comprising applying an electromagnetic field to the thorax area of a subject inserting an antenna reference instrument into the heart of the subject wherein the antenna reference instrument includes at least one electromagnetic sensor and at least one electrode inserting at least one roving instrument into the thorax cavity of the subject wherein the at least one roving instrument includes at least one electrode determining position coordinates of the antenna reference instrument based on sensing the electromagnetic field using the at least one electromagnetic sensor measuring an electrical potential difference between the at least one electrode of the antenna reference instrument and the at least one electrode of the at least one roving instrument and calibrating the measured electrical potential difference using the determined position coordinates of the antenna reference instrument to determine position coordinates of the at least one roving instrument.

In various illustrative embodiments of the invention a position sensing system used to navigate medical instruments through a patient s cardiovascular system during a cardiovascular procedure includes an antenna reference instrument that can be inserted into the heart of the patient and localized by at least two different systems. The antenna reference instrument can be inserted into a stable location in the heart by the physician and remain there for the duration of the procedure providing a stable reference point. This reference point ensures that the images that the physician is viewing during the procedure are accurate. The antenna reference instrument can be localized by an electromagnetic system through its electromagnetic sensor and by an electrical potential system through its electrodes. The absolute location of the antenna reference instrument is determined by a control unit using an electromagnetic field sensor that is embedded into the antenna reference instrument and the supporting electromagnetic field localization system. The absolute location of the antenna reference instrument is accurate because the electromagnetic system is not dependent on tissue characteristics the patient s breathing or the patient s heart beating. Additionally roving instruments that are used to diagnose diseases and deliver treatments are included. Each roving instrument includes electrodes for localization by the electrical potential system. Current typical instruments used to diagnose and treat cardiovascular diseases already include electrodes which makes this a very open architecture system as it can be used with widely available instruments that are already on the market. The control unit can determine the location of any one of the roving instruments by measuring the electrical potential difference between the electrodes on the antenna reference instrument and the electrodes on the roving instrument in question. Because the antenna reference instrument location is known and stable the control unit can calibrate the measurement to determine where the roving instrument is located. The location of the roving instrument is very accurate even using electrical potential measurements because the tissue characteristics that negatively affect those measurements are minimized. Because the roving instrument and antenna reference instruments are in the same tissue the tissue characteristics can be disregarded as both instruments are equally affected and the position location system in various illustrative embodiments analyzes the difference between the two.

Referring now to the drawings where like or similar elements are designated with identical reference numerals throughout the several views and referring in particular to it is a schematic illustration of the distal portion of antenna reference instrument in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the invention. Antenna reference instrument can be any medical instrument that can be adapted to be inserted into the thorax of a subject and is associated with at least two location sensing systems. For example as shown in antenna reference instrument can include multiple electrodes for sensing current voltage or impedance as well as electromagnetic sensor for sensing an electromagnetic field. Antenna reference instrument can include a catheter system a pacemaker lead system an implantable cardioverter defibrillator lead system or any other suitable medical device depending on the particular embodiment.

As stated above antenna reference instrument in some embodiments includes a catheter system. In some embodiments the thickness of the catheter lies in the range of 5 to 7 French. As shown in the distal end of antenna reference instrument can be curved although this is not required. In some embodiments the distal end of antenna reference instrument is fixed and in other embodiments the distal end of antenna reference instrument has an adjustable deflection.

In some embodiments distal cap electrode is gold platinum silver or any other suitable material for sensing electrical fields and or applying electrical energy. Distal cap electrode can be located at the distal tip of antenna reference instrument or any other suitable location near the tip of the distal end of antenna reference instrument . In some embodiments antenna reference instrument does not include distal cap electrode . In some embodiments instead of distal cap electrode antenna reference instrument includes a temporary or permanent pacing lead with fixation devices including but not limited to screws or permanent implantation anchors. One benefit of using a more permanent lead device is that in follow up procedures a physician can connect to the already implanted lead which provides a known location for antenna reference instrument .

In some embodiments multiple electrodes are made from gold platinum silver or any other suitable material for sensing electrical fields. While depicts four electrodes antenna reference instrument can include any number of electrodes . A typical range for the number of electrodes is 1 to 21 though in some embodiments more than 20 electrodes can be used. Multiple electrodes can be evenly or unevenly spaced along the catheter depending on the particular embodiment.

Electromagnetic sensor can be a single coil as shown in or electromagnetic sensor can include multiple coils. Electromagnetic sensor can be made of copper platinum gold silver or any other suitable metal for sensing electromagnetic fields.

In use antenna reference instrument can be inserted into the heart of a subject. The insertion point can be the femoral artery in the groin area or any suitable insertion point for a cardiovascular procedure on the subject. Once antenna reference instrument is inserted into the heart electromagnetic sensor senses an electromagnetic field applied in some embodiments to the thorax area of the subject. Multiple electrodes can measure current voltage or impedance when electrical energy is applied to the thorax area of the subject.

Electromagnetic field generator emits electromagnetic field . In some embodiments electromagnetic field generator is aligned near subject such that electromagnetic field emitted from electromagnetic field generator engulfs the thorax area of subject .

As shown in monitor in some embodiments displays a graphical representation of the heart as it beats in subject . Monitor can display where roving instrument and antenna reference instrument are located within subject in relation to the subject s heart. Monitor can be configured to display the subject s heart as it beats dynamically statically or not to show the subject s heart at all. Monitor can be configured to display antenna reference instrument alone in relation to the subject s heart in relation to one or more roving instruments in relation to both the subject s heart and one or more roving instruments or not at all. Monitor can be configured to display roving instrument alone in relation to the subject s heart in relation to antenna reference instrument in relation to other roving instruments in relation to the subject s heart and or one or more other roving instruments and or antenna reference instrument or not at all. In some embodiments position sensing system includes multiple roving instruments which can also be displayed on monitor in any of the combinations described above.

Monitor can be any suitable monitor for displaying static or dynamic images. In some embodiments position sensing system may not include monitor . In other embodiments position sensing system can include multiple monitors .

In some embodiments monitor can be a touchscreen such that monitor can receive input via options displayed on the screen allowing the operator to choose the desired display configuration.

Control unit can be connected to monitor and connector breakout box as shown in . Control unit is described in more detail below in connection with .

As shown in in some embodiments connector breakout box is connected to control unit electromagnetic field generator electrical potential field pads roving instrument and antenna reference instrument . In other embodiments connector breakout box can also be connected to other devices and instruments that are used for the procedure. For instance connector breakout box can be connected to an RF generator an ultrasound imaging device an esophageal temperature probe an electrocardiogram recording device an x ray device a Computed Tomography CT device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device a Positron Emission Tomography PET device an Optical Coherence Tomography OCT device and or any other device used for the procedure.

As shown in antenna reference instrument can be a device the distal end of which can travel through the artery system of subject into the heart while navigation handle remains outside subject . The physician can use navigation handle to guide the distal end of antenna reference instrument to the desired location within subject . The usable length of antenna reference instrument is typically 65 to 110 centimeters in some embodiments although in other embodiments antenna reference instrument may be longer than 110 centimeters or shorter than 65 centimeters. As shown in antenna reference instrument can have multiple sensors such as one or more electromagnetic sensors and one or more electrodes .

As shown in roving instrument can also include navigation handle which can remain outside subject . The physician can use navigation handle to guide the distal end of roving instrument to the desired location within subject . Roving instrument can include at least one electrode for sensing current voltage or impedance within subject . While a single roving instrument is shown in multiple roving instruments may be used in some embodiments.

Electrical potential field pads can be placed on the surface of subject . depicts five electrical potential field pads however there may be more or fewer than five. Electrical potential field pads generate electrical current through subject which generates electrical fields that can be sensed by electrodes on antenna reference instrument and the electrodes on roving instrument . Electrical potential field pads can be placed on subject such that the electrical fields generated engulf the thorax area of subject . For example electrical potential field pads can send current through subject from right armpit to left armpit neck to groin and front to back such that there is an effective X Y Z coordinate system of electrical current running through subject .

In use according to one embodiment control unit can instruct electromagnetic field generator through connector breakout box to generate electromagnetic field that engulfs the thorax area of subject . Control unit can instruct electrical potential field pads to generate an electrical current through the thorax area of subject as described above.

Electromagnetic sensor in antenna reference instrument can sense electromagnetic field and electromagnetic sensor can send a signal to control unit through connector breakout box . Control unit can determine position coordinates of antenna reference instrument based on the signal from electromagnetic sensor in antenna reference instrument . Measurements taken from the electromagnetic localization system can be taken in millimeters. In some embodiments three dimensional minimum and maximum locations can also be calculated and recorded. Though antenna reference instrument is in a stable location often the coronary sinus but antenna reference instrument may also be located in the fossa ovalis high right atrium right ventricular apex or any other stable location some movement of antenna reference instrument is normal because of blood flow heartbeat and breathing of the subject. The minimum and maximum thresholds can be any number but the movement typically does not exceed 1 centimeter.

Electrodes in antenna reference instrument can measure the impedance voltage and or current generated by electrical potential field pads . Electrodes can send an electrical impedance and or electrical potential value to control unit through connector breakout box . Control unit can determine position coordinates of antenna reference instrument based on the electrical impedance and or electrical potential value. In some embodiments control unit determines absolute position coordinates of antenna reference instrument using electrical potential.

The electrodes in roving instrument are used to measure the impedance voltage and or current generated by electrical potential field pads . The electrodes permit control unit through connector breakout box to determine a value for the measured electrical impedance and or electrical potential. In some embodiments control unit measures the electrical potential difference and or the electrical impedance difference between that measured at antenna reference instrument and that measured at roving instrument . Based on the measured difference control unit can calibrate the measured difference using the determined position coordinates of antenna reference instrument and determine the position coordinates of roving instrument .

Control unit can convert the position coordinates for antenna reference instrument and roving instrument into an image to be displayed on monitor .

Storage device can include for example hard disk drives storage arrays network attached storage tape based storage optical storage flash memory based storage or any other suitable storage device for use in a computer system. While depicts a single storage device multiple storage devices may be present in some embodiments.

I O Module facilitates communication with external devices that communicate with control unit . For example I O module can facilitate communication with monitor or connector breakout box .

In some embodiments electrical potential field generator is a module in control unit that controls electrical potential field pads . For example electrical potential field generator can control the current flowing through the subject between electrical potential field pads which generates an electrical potential field in subject . In an illustrative embodiment electrical potential field generator can create three separate signals distinguishable by some characteristic such as frequency phase or time so that an X Y and Z signal can be separated out to determine position coordinates of the sensing electrode.

Electromagnetic control unit can be a module in control unit that controls electromagnetic field generator . Electromagnetic control unit can control the intensity of electromagnetic field as well as turn electromagnetic field generator on and off.

Memory may include without limitation random access memory RAM read only memory ROM or flash memory. While shows a single memory in some embodiments multiple memory devices including combinations of types may be used. In one embodiment as shown in memory includes executable program instructions conceptualized as functional modules including electromagnetic localization module electrical potential electrical impedance localization module data storage module movement sensing module calibration module interface APIs and image rendering module . In other embodiments the program instructions may be divided into more or fewer modules and the functional boundaries among the modules can differ from what is indicated in .

Electromagnetic localization module determines position coordinates of instruments including antenna reference instrument that include electromagnetic sensor . In some embodiments electromagnetic localization module converts the signals from electromagnetic sensor into X Y and Z position coordinates.

Electrical potential electrical impedance localization module determines position coordinates of instruments including antenna reference instrument and roving instruments that include one or more electrodes . In some embodiments electrical potential electrical impedance localization module converts the signals from electrode into X Y and Z position coordinates.

Data storage module controls the storage of data including without limitation position coordinates or images and data from the many devices that I O module communicates with as described above.

Movement sensing module recognizes movement of antenna reference instrument beyond the predetermined threshold described above. In some embodiments if antenna reference instrument moves the physician can be notified through a visual or audio alert. The physician can move antenna reference instrument back to the stable location within the predetermined threshold. In some embodiments the new location of antenna reference instrument can be used and an offset can be applied to recalibrate the stored images and data for accurate display of the locations of antenna reference instrument and roving instrument .

Calibration module calibrates the measured differences in electrical potential or electrical impedance between antenna reference instrument and roving instrument . Within the calibration module various mathematical operations are performed. In some embodiments a three space coordinate system can be created with voltage values in each orthogonal anterior posterior inferior superior and laterally axis. For example electrical potential field pads can send electrical current through subject from right armpit to left armpit neck to groin and front to back such that there is an effective X Y Z coordinate system of electrical current running through subject . Each axis can have a different carrier frequency. In one embodiment the X axis frequency is 30 kHz the Y axis frequency is 31 kHz and the Z axis frequency is 32 kHz although other carrier frequencies can be used. A composite voltage can be measured as a difference between an electrode on roving instrument and an electrode on antenna reference instrument . A Fourier transformation can be performed on the composite voltage to extract the separate X Y and Z voltage measurements corresponding to the X Y Z coordinate system. These real time X Y and Z voltage measurements can be placed into a memory buffer and averaged over varying periods of time to smooth out any inherent noise in the system and provide the operator with various levels of sensitivity of roving instrument motion depending on the operator s haptic preference.

Similarly in some embodiments electrical impedance differences are measured between an electrode on roving instrument and an electrode on antenna reference instrument . A Fourier transformation can be performed on the composite impedance measurement to extract the separate X Y and Z impedance measurements corresponding to the X Y Z coordinate system created by the electrical potential field pads . Buffering and smoothing calculations can be performed to ensure noise cancellation and varying levels of roving instrument motion feedback.

Interface APIs provide interfaces between control unit and other devices including without limitation an x ray device an RF generator an ultrasound imaging device an esophageal temperature probe an electrocardiogram recording device a Computed Tomography CT device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device a Positron Emission Tomography PET device an Optical Coherence Tomography OCT device and or any other device used in a cardiovascular procedure.

In some embodiments monitor can display the heart dynamically such that the subject s heart is shown as beating on monitor substantially in time with the subject s true heartbeat. Monitor can also display the movement of roving instrument in substantially real time as the physician moves roving instrument . The rendered image of antenna reference instrument can also be shown in substantially real time.

As described above monitor can be any suitable display monitor for use with a computer system including without limitation a CRT a touchscreen an LCD a plasma or an LED display.

In one embodiment the data displays described above are all updated by control unit . For example as control unit via Interface APIs communicates with external devices such as the ultrasound imaging device and receives updated imaging information GPUs render the images and send the rendered images via I O module to ultrasound data display on monitor .

At antenna reference instrument is inserted into the heart of the subject. In some embodiments the insertion point is the femoral artery in the groin area of the subject. From there antenna reference instrument is guided through the vasculature to the subject s heart.

At roving instrument is inserted into the thorax cavity of the subject. In some embodiments the insertion point is the same as the insertion point for antenna reference instrument . However the insertion point can include any suitable insertion point that allows access to the thorax cavity of the subject.

At position coordinates of antenna reference instrument are determined based on sensing electromagnetic field . In some embodiments electromagnetic sensor in antenna reference instrument detects electromagnetic field that was applied to the thorax area of the subject at . The electromagnetic sensor conveys a signal to control unit . Electromagnetic localization module interprets the signal and converts the signal into position coordinates of antenna reference instrument .

At the electrical potential and or electrical impedance difference between antenna reference instrument and roving instrument is measured. The electrodes in antenna reference instrument and the electrodes in roving instrument each convey a signal to control unit . Electrical potential electrical impedance localization module interprets the signal and measures the electrical potential and or the electrical impedance difference.

At the position coordinates of roving instrument are determined by calibrating the electrical potential difference or the electrical impedance difference between antenna reference instrument and roving instrument using the determined position coordinates of antenna reference instrument . Calibration module uses the position coordinates of antenna reference instrument determined at and the measured electrical potential and or electrical impedance difference measured at to calibrate the difference and determine the position coordinates of roving instrument .

At the dynamic images of the heart are displayed on monitor corresponding to the subject s heart s phase such that the images are displayed in substantially real time with the beating heart of the subject. Image rendering module utilizes GPU to render images for display on monitor and correlates the display to occur in substantially real time with the heart s phase by utilizing input from the external devices that provide data indicating the phase of the heart such as ECG data.

At the roving instrument image is also rendered on monitor in this embodiment. Image rendering module utilizes GPU to render images for display on monitor and correlates the display to occur in substantially real time as roving instrument moves.

At the location of antenna reference instrument is checked to determine whether it moved outside a predetermined threshold. If antenna reference instrument moved sufficiently the method returns to Block and determines the new position coordinates of antenna reference instrument based on sensing electromagnetic field through electromagnetic sensor in antenna reference instrument . In some embodiments the position of antenna reference instrument is tracked redundantly using both electromagnetic and electrical potential positioning techniques. As described above a predetermined threshold can be chosen because the beating of the subject s heart as well as the subject s breathing will cause antenna reference instrument to move approximately 1 centimeter which is considered normal. However if antenna reference instrument slips from its substantially stable location the rendered images of roving instrument will no longer be accurate without a recalibration. Once antenna reference instrument moves an offset can be applied to calibrate all the images to the new antenna reference instrument location allowing all location data to be accurate as displayed on monitor . In this manner shifts in position of antenna reference instrument during the procedure can be compensated for.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Where methods and or flowcharts described above indicate certain events and or flow patterns occurring in a certain order the ordering of certain events and or flow patterns may be modified. While the embodiments have been particularly shown and described it will be understood that various changes in form and details may be made.

For instance in some embodiments multiple roving instruments may be used. In those embodiments multiple measurement steps can be done to determine each roving instrument s location. Those measurement steps can be done in parallel but they need not be done in parallel depending on the embodiment.

Although various embodiments have been described as having particular features and or combinations of components other embodiments are possible having a combination of any features and or components from any of the embodiments as discussed above. For example while electromagnetic and electrical potential or electrical impedance localization methods were used throughout this disclosure any combination of those systems may be used. Additionally other types of localization systems could be used.

In conclusion the present invention provides among other things systems and methods for localizing medical instruments within a subject during cardiovascular medical procedures. Those skilled in the art can readily recognize that numerous variations and substitutions may be made in the invention its use and its configuration to achieve substantially the same results as achieved by the embodiments described herein. Accordingly there is no intention to limit the invention to the disclosed exemplary forms. Many variations modifications and alternative constructions fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed invention as expressed in the claims.

