---

title: Discovery of public points of interest
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for discovery of public points of interest. Data identifying points of interest is obtained. Each point of interest is associated with a respective user and specifies a respective name and a respective geographic location. A public point of interest is determined based at least in part on a similarity of the respective names of a subset of the points of interest, a proximity of the respective geographic locations of the subset of the points of interest, and a number of different users associated with the subset of the points of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09250088&OS=09250088&RS=09250088
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09250088
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131002
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to co pending U.S. Patent Application entitled DISCOVERY OF PUBLIC POINTS OF INTEREST filed on May 17 2012 and assigned application Ser. No. 13 474 047 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In the geolocation space a point of interest POI is a specific physical place that is of interest to a general population. The POI may be attached to a street address latitude and longitude coordinates and or other location identifiers. Databases of POIs may be commercially available from data providers.

The present disclosure relates to discovery of public points of interest POI through the identification of personal POIs. A personal POI is a POI that is of interest to a specific individual. A user may register a personal POI by way of a networked check in application executed in a smartphone or other mobile device. While at a particular location the user may check in and provide the coordinates of the location and a description or identification of the location. Alternatively the user may access a network site and manually specify locations and identifications of personal POIs e.g. relative to a map by street address etc.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure may discover new public POIs based at least in part on the creation of private or personal POIs at the same location by multiple users. Thresholds e.g. number of check ins number of unique users distance between different check in locations etc. may be employed to confirm the existence of a public POI using the multiple private POIs at the same location. In some embodiments existence of a public POI may be confirmed through manual review of private POIs. In some cases ephemeral POIs may be identified and larger POIs may be inferred though identification of multiple POIs in an area.

Existing public POIs may be enhanced with metadata generated based at least in part on the personal POIs. Non limiting examples of such metadata may include hours of operation days of operation goods or services provided at the POI behavior data associated with users who frequent the POI and so on. Existing POIs may be updated or removed based at least in part subsequent user check ins. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes a computing environment in data communication with one or more mobile computing devices and one or more client computing devices by way of a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing environment may comprise for example a computing device such as a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a plurality of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example a computing environment may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. The computing environment may include computing devices that may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing environment according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing environment . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed in the computing environment for example include a check in service a public POI discovery service a manual review system a network page server and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The check in service is executed to obtain check in information from users at mobile computing devices and or client computing devices where the check in represents a visit by a user to a business a park a library a school a government agency and or other location. One or more check ins at a location may be considered to indicate a personal POI for the user at the location. The check in information may include for example a name a geographic location a genre or type of location a time associated with the visit and or other information.

The public POI discovery service is executed to examine the check in information to discover public POIs from personal POIs. Various thresholds and or other configuration parameters may control how public POIs are determined from the personal POIs. For example a grouping of similar personal POIs may be determined from the check in information according to similarity of names proximity of geographic locations time of check in and or other information. The grouping may be converted or promoted from a potential public POI to a public POI based at least in part on a number of different users who have specified the personal POIs at the location. Also a potential public POI may be submitted to the manual review system for a manual review. In various embodiments the public POI discovery service may be configured to infer the existence of composite public POIs from different public POIs that have been determined in an area. In some embodiments the public POI discovery service may be configured to enrich existing public POIs with additional or corrected metadata.

The manual review system is configured to facilitate manual reviews of potential public POIs and or potential composite public POIs. The manual reviews may be undertaken by agents such as employees independent contractors and or others. In one embodiment the manual review system is configured to offer discrete tasks to independent contractors for compensation on a per task basis. The independent contractors may be qualified for example using a reputation with the manual review system . In some cases the work of some or all of the independent contractors may be verified by others to assess or ensure accuracy.

The network page server may correspond to a commercially available hypertext transfer protocol HTTP server such as for example APACHE HTTP Server APACHE TOMCAT MICROSOFT Internet Information Services IIS etc. The network page server may be configured to serve up a network page based interface for the check in service the manual review system and or other components executed in the computing environment . The network pages may correspond to web pages gopher pages mobile application screens and or other forms of network content.

The data stored in the data store includes for example check in data public POIs composite public POIs manual review data transaction data user behavior data external data public POI recognition parameters composite public POI recognition parameters network page data and potentially other data. The check in data includes for each check in an identification of a user a geographic location a name a time genre or category a textual description and or other data. The user corresponds to one of a plurality of users who may be registered or configured to provide check ins or to specify personal POIs. The location may correspond to latitude and longitude coordinates a street address and or other types of geographic locations. The name may correspond to a user specified or selected name for the personal POI identified in the check in. The time may correspond to a date and time time stamp or other time identification.

The public POIs correspond to public POIs or potential public POIs that have been determined by the public POI discovery service . Each of the public POIs may be associated with a representative name a representative location a representative description and or other data that may be determined by the public POI discovery service . The public POIs may also be associated with certain hours of operation days of operation and or other periodic time window of operation as determined through the times of the check in data . Further the public POIs may be associated with busy periods relatively slow periods etc. also determined from the times of the check in data .

The composite public POIs correspond to composite public POIs or potential composite public POIs that have been determined by the public POI discovery service from a plurality of different public POIs and or check in data associated with different public POIs . For example the composite public POIs may correspond to art fairs shopping malls farmers markets special events and so on that may represent a composite of many different public POIs . Such composite public POIs may be permanent or ephemeral e.g. a POI of a temporary nature . Also such composite public POIs may be periodic in nature such as for example a farmers market that takes place every other weekend.

Each of the composite public POIs may be associated with a representative name a representative location a representative description and or other data that may be determined by the public POI discovery service . The composite public POIs may also be associated with certain hours of operation days of operation and or other periodic time window of operation as determined through the times of the check in data . Further the composite public POIs may be associated with busy periods relatively slow periods etc. also determined from the times of the check in data .

The manual review data includes data relating to the facilitation of manual review by the manual review system . The manual review data may include manual review thresholds for identifying potential public POIs and potential composite public POIs that may not be confidently determined. The manual review data may also include criteria for flagging certain potential POIs and composite public POIs for manual review e.g. keywords locations etc. . In some embodiments location images may be provided for manual review in conjunction with a name or other data obtained from the check in data . This allows an agent to confirm whether a POI with a certain name is in fact depicted in the location image for the given location . In one embodiment a task provided by the manual review system may direct an agent to capture a location image at a certain location for purposes of POI confirmation.

The transaction data may correspond to data indicating payment instrument swipes or other transactions associated with various business entities. The transaction data may be correlated with the check in data to assist in determining or validating a public POI or composite public POI . In other words the transaction data may be evaluated to determine the types of transactions associated with the location to identify or validate a previous identification for a POI.

The user behavior data may include various data associated with the users who are performing the check ins. For example the user behavior data may include a purchase history with one or more merchants a browsing history for one or more network sites a search history for one or more search engines explicitly defined user preferences a previous check in history at known public POIs or composite public POIs and or other behavior data. The user behavior data may be used for example as part of inferring the existence of a composite public POI .

The external data may include reference data that may be used by the public POI discovery service in determining public POIs or composite public POIs . To this end the external data may include valid business names valid locations valid descriptions valid periods of operation and so on. In some cases the external data may be used to validate potential public POIs or potential composite public POIs . In one embodiment the external data may be obtained by way of the network from one or more external data providers.

The public POI recognition parameters include various criteria thresholds and parameters that control recognition of public POIs from the check in data by the public POI discovery service . For example the public POI recognition parameters may include a similarity threshold for a measure of similarity between the names of check ins a proximity threshold for a measure of proximity between the locations of check ins a quantity threshold for a number of unique users for check ins and so on.

The composite public POI recognition parameters include various criteria thresholds and parameters that control recognition of composite public POIs from the check in data and or public POIs by the public POI discovery service . For example the composite public POI recognition parameters may include a similarity threshold for a measure of similarity between the names of public POIs a proximity threshold for a measure of proximity between the locations of public POIs thresholds for application of transaction data user behavior data and so on.

The network page data may include images text code graphics hypertext markup language HTML extensible markup language XML audio video and or other data used by the network page server and or other applications in the computing environment to generate network pages. Such network pages may facilitate interaction with the manual review system the check in service and or other applications.

The mobile computing device is representative of a plurality of mobile client devices that may be coupled to the network . The mobile computing device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones music players web pads tablet computer systems electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The mobile computing device may include a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD screens or other types of display devices etc.

The mobile computing device may be configured to execute various applications such as a check in application and or other applications. The check in application may be executed to check in at a particular location thereby sending data to the check in service by way of the network . The check in application may acquire the current location from a global positioning system GPS device or other location finding device. In other embodiments the current location may be determined through triangulation using cell towers geolocation based upon internet protocol IP address and or other approaches. The check in application may prompt the user to provide a name description category and or other information to be provided to the check in service . The check in application and or other applications may render a user interface on the display . The mobile computing device may be configured to execute applications beyond the check in application such as for example browser applications email applications social networking applications and or other mobile applications.

The client computing device is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client computing device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The client computing device may include a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as cathode ray tubes CRTs liquid crystal display LCD screens gas plasma based flat panel displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc.

The client computing device may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser and or other applications. The browser may be executed in a client computing device for example to access and render network pages such as web pages or other network content served up by the computing environment and or other servers thereby generating a rendered network page on the display . The client computing device may be configured to execute applications beyond the browser such as for example mobile applications email applications instant message applications and or other applications.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin users may register with the check in service and or install a check in application to their mobile computing devices . In a first case a user travels to a location and checks in using the check in application on the mobile computing device . The check in application prompts the user to enter metadata about the location e.g. name etc. The check in application determines the current location by way of the GPS device or other device. After all of the data is collected the check in application may submit the various data e.g. including an identification of the user the location the name the current time etc. to the check in service by way of the network . The check in service then stores the data as check in data .

In a second case a user at a client computing device may enter a check in using a browser that provides one or more rendered network pages for display. The rendered network pages may include one or more forms to elicit metadata about the location e.g. name the time the location etc. In one embodiment to specify the location the user may be presented with a map. The user may then indicate the location relative to the map. For example the user may navigate to a general area and click on the map to select a particular location . Alternatively the user may manually specify a street address or other indication for the location . The data may be sent to the check in service by way of the network page server and the network . In some cases check ins may be incentivized with discounts at a merchant a desirable standing accorded within a social network recognition of meeting certain check in goals and or other incentives.

Although the check in data has been described as the result of a user explicitly checking in deliberate user interaction is not a requirement. For example a mobile computing device may be configured to automatically check in at periodic intervals when the location of the mobile computing device is changed and or at other times. Further the check in data may include non consumer check ins. For example a delivery person may check in at various locations during the course of performing deliveries.

In response to the check in data being collected the public POI discovery service may be executed on demand or periodically. The public POI discovery service analyzes the check in data corresponding to personal POIs to determine potential public POIs . The public POI discovery service may examine the personal POIs indicated by the check in data to determine groupings or subsets of the personal POIs that may correspond to public POIs . For example personal POIs having similar or same names similar or same locations and or other metadata may be considered as possible public POIs . The names and or locations may be verified against external data to exclude private or non public types of check ins e.g. homes etc. check ins with fake or inappropriate metadata check ins relating to predefined locations or names that are protected against automatic creation of public POI and so on.

Public POIs may correspond for example to a proper name for a location or an activity name for a location. As a non limiting example of an activity focused POI if users of mobile computing devices tend to check in in a certain area often and read books through an electronic book reader application often in that area the public POI discovery service may determine that the public POI is a Reading Spot. In one embodiment the mobile computing devices may be configured to check in automatically without the user explicitly providing a name. The public POI discovery service may infer the name Reading Spot from the user activity frequently performed at the location which may be a park library coffee shop etc. Accordingly user behavior data which indicates user activities at particular locations may be used to determine public POIs . The user behavior data may also be employed to determine why users are at a certain POI for example if they are at a stadium for a hockey game or for a business leadership expo. The activity performed at the POI may be used in creating a public POI .

Various thresholds or criteria in the public POI recognition parameters may be consulted to group personal POIs and filter out false public POIs . For example the locations of the check ins may be need to be within a certain distance or the names may need to have a certain number of words in common a certain number of different users may need to check in at the same or similar location with a same or similar name and so on. Once a public POI has been recognized it may be stored in the public POIs . The public POI may be associated with a representative location a representative name and or other representative metadata which may be determined in part from the user supplied check in data . The public POIs may be made publicly available in maps application data search engines and so on. The public POIs may be used in making localized offers to potential customers.

Under some conditions e.g. upon a potential public POI having a confidence measure meeting a manual review threshold potential public POIs may be submitted to the manual review system for manual review. Agents may log into the manual review system and may be assigned various tasks to perform. The agents may perform various sanity checks on the data e.g. does the potential public POI have a name that makes sense is the name inappropriate and so on. In some cases multiple agents may perform one or more of the tasks for a given potential public POI to ensure data quality.

A location image from a reference source or other source may be provided for an agent to verify existence of the public POI . If the location image shows a tank farm and the potential public POI has a name of Joe s Restaurant the agent may decide not to confirm the listing. In some embodiments agents may be directed to take pictures or acquire the location images for particular locations for verification purposes. Such tasks may be directed to agents based at least in part on a current location of the agent. In some embodiments the public POI discovery service may perform some automated verification of the location image relative to the potential public POI data e.g. optical character recognition of proposed or valid names etc. .

The public POIs may have a temporal aspect. The public POI discovery service may determine normal periods of operation for the public POIs e.g. hours of operation days of operation seasons of operation etc. based at least in part on analysis of the times of the check in data . With enough check in data the public POI discovery service may be able to discern a temporal pattern in the times for visits to a given POI. Similarly if the check ins abruptly cease the public POI discovery service may discern that the public POI no longer exists has moved or has temporarily closed. Whether a public POI no longer exists has moved or has temporarily closed may be verified in some cases by a manual review.

As one example a public POI may correspond to a mobile business such as a mobile food truck which may move to predefined locations according to a schedule. The public POI discovery service may infer the schedules and locations for the mobile business from the check in data . To this end the public POI discovery service may determine a corresponding representative geographic location for the public POI for each of a plurality of time periods. As another example if check ins occur only on the first Tuesday of the month the public POI discovery service may infer a period of operation for the public POI . In some cases the existence of a public POI may be determined based at least in part on a time window encompassing the respective times for a grouping of check ins.

In various embodiments the public POI discovery service may be configured to infer the existence of composite public POIs from check in data or public POIs . The public POI discovery service may also infer the existence of composite public POIs from check ins to manually configured or imported public POIs in the system. When certain types of public POIs are together a composite public POI may be inferred. For example when many different arts and crafts vendors are within a certain area the existence of an art fair may be inferred. Likewise when many mall type merchants are within a certain area the existence of a shopping mall may be inferred.

The public POI discovery service may base an inference for a composite public POI on various other data besides check in data such as transaction data user behavior data external data and so on. The transaction data may indicate the types of merchants or transactions associated with certain locations or areas and the types that are indicated may be used in determining composite public POIs . The user behavior data may indicate the types of users who are checking in to a certain area and their affinities for art fairs farmers markets music concerts and or other types of composite public POIs . The external data may be used to validate the existence of an event or other type of composite public POI or to obtain further details. Like the public POIs potential composite public POIs may also be submitted for manual review in some cases.

Various thresholds or criteria in the composite public POI recognition parameters may be consulted to group public POIs and filter out false composite public POIs . For example the locations of the public POIs may need to be within a certain distance and so on. Once a composite public POI has been recognized it may be stored in the composite public POIs . The composite public POI may be associated with a representative location a representative name and or other representative metadata which may be determined in part from the user supplied check in data . In various scenarios the representative locations names and or other data may be automatically generated from external data automatically generated from check in data elicited by a manual review task and so on. The composite public POIs may be made publicly available in maps application data search engines and so on. The composite public POIs may be used in making localized offers to potential customers.

Like the public POIs the composite public POIs may also have a temporal aspect. The public POI discovery service may determine normal periods of operation for the composite public POIs e.g. hours of operation days of operation seasons of operation etc. based at least in part on analysis of the times of the check in data and or times associated with the public POIs .

Turning now to shown is one example of a map depicting a check in performed through the check in service executed in the computing environment in the networked environment . The map indicates that a user has checked in at Bob s Coffee at a certain location at the time of 2 p.m.

Referring next to shown is another example of a map depicting a check in performed through the check in service executed in the computing environment in the networked environment . The map indicates that a user has checked in at Coffee Shop at a certain location at the time of 7 30 a.m. It is noted that the location and the name of the check in are different from that of the check in . Check in has the name of Bob s Coffee but check in has the name of Coffee Shop which differs by the removal of the word Bob s and the addition of the word Shop. 

Moving on to shown is an example of a map depicting a public POI indication corresponding to a public POI identified by the public POI discovery service executed in the computing environment in the networked environment . The public POI indication indicates a public POI having a name of Bob s Coffee at a certain location on the map . The public POI has been identified based at least in part on the check in and the check in . The representative name Bob s Coffee and a representative location have been selected. The representative name may be determined for example with reference to the external data . Moreover from the check in data and or external data hours of operation of 7 am to 10 pm have been determined.

With reference to shown is an example of a map depicting a composite public POI indication corresponding to a composite public POI identified by the public POI discovery service executed in the computing environment in the networked environment . The composite public POI corresponds to a Farmers Market and has been identified by the public POI discovery service from six public POIs . Six public POI indications corresponding to the public POIs are shown. The public POI indication has the name Flowers 4 You the public POI indication has the name Fred s Fresh Fruit the public POI indication has the name Ted s Tasty Tomatoes the public POI indication has the name Mark s Watermelon Patch the public POI indication has the name Locally Grown Chickens and the public POI indication has the name Organic Paradise. 

All of the public POI indications shown on the map are relatively close to one another and may be identified for example as relating to local agriculture. The external data may be used by the public POI discovery service to categorize the various names associated with the public POIs . In some cases a category may be supplied by a user as part of the check in data . In other cases the public POIs may be submitted for manual review for categorization. The public POI discovery service may employ user behavior data e.g. indicating these users often shop at farmers markets etc. transaction data e.g. these public POIs are associated with produce transactions etc. and or other data to infer the existence of a composite public POI .

It is noted that the time aspect of public POIs and composite public POIs may be significant. For example the Farmer s Market identified on the map may be relevant only for the weekends during which the Farmer s Market is active. During weekdays or other times when the Farmer s Market is not open the same location on the map may be identified as a public POI corresponding to a parking lot.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the public POI discovery service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the public POI discovery service as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the public POI discovery service obtains check in data and or other data. In box the public POI discovery service identifies potential public POIs based at least in part on a subset of the check in data external data transaction data user behavior data and or other data. In this task the public POI discovery service may perform various evaluations of criteria and thresholds to determine potential groupings of check ins that correspond to potential public POIs . Such groupings may be associated with a confidence score.

In box the public POI discovery service determines whether the potential public POI has a confidence score that meets or exceeds an initial threshold. If the confidence score does not meet the initial threshold the public POI discovery service moves to box and rejects the potential public POI . Thereafter the portion of the public POI discovery service ends. If the confidence score does meet or exceed the initial threshold the public POI discovery service instead continues from box to box .

In box the public POI discovery service determines whether the potential public POI has a confidence score that meets or exceeds a threshold indicating whether a manual review is to be performed. If the confidence score meets or exceeds the threshold for performing a manual review the public POI discovery service moves to box . In box the public POI discovery service adds the public POI to the data store and or updates an existing public POI . Thereafter the portion of the public POI discovery service ends.

If instead the public POI discovery service determines in box that the potential public POI does not meet the threshold the public POI discovery service proceeds from box to box . In box the public POI discovery service submits the potential public POI to the manual review system for manual review. In box the public POI discovery service determines whether the potential public POI has been confirmed as a result of the manual review.

If the potential public POI has been confirmed the public POI discovery service adds the public POI to the data store and or updates an existing public POI . Thereafter the portion of the public POI discovery service ends. If the potential public POI has not been confirmed the public POI discovery service rejects the potential public POI in box . Thereafter the portion of the public POI discovery service ends.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of another portion of the public POI discovery service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the other portion of the public POI discovery service as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the public POI discovery service obtains data relating to public POIs and or check in data . In box the public POI discovery service identifies potential composite public POIs based at least in part on a subset of the public POIs external data transaction data user behavior data and or other data. In this task the public POI discovery service may perform various evaluations of criteria and thresholds to determine potential groupings of public POIs . Such groupings may be associated with a confidence score. Alternatively the public POI discovery service may process the check in data directly to determine the existence of composite PPOIs from check ins.

In box the public POI discovery service determines whether the potential composite public POI has a confidence score that meets or exceeds an initial threshold. If the confidence score does not meet the initial threshold the public POI discovery service moves to box and rejects the potential composite public POI . Thereafter the portion of the public POI discovery service ends. If the confidence score does meet or exceed the initial threshold the public POI discovery service instead continues from box to box .

In box the public POI discovery service determines whether the potential composite public POI has a confidence score that meets or exceeds a threshold indicating whether a manual review is to be performed. If the confidence score meets or exceeds the threshold indicating a manual review the public POI discovery service moves to box . In box the public POI discovery service adds the composite public POI to the data store and or updates an existing composite public POI . Thereafter the portion of the public POI discovery service ends.

If instead the public POI discovery service determines in box that the potential composite public POI does not meet the threshold the public POI discovery service proceeds from box to box . In box the public POI discovery service submits the potential composite public POI to the manual review system for manual review. In box the public POI discovery service determines whether the potential composite public POI has been confirmed as a result of the manual review.

If the potential composite public POI has been confirmed the public POI discovery service adds the composite public POI to the data store and or updates an existing composite public POI . Thereafter the portion of the public POI discovery service ends. If the potential composite public POI has not been confirmed the public POI discovery service rejects the potential composite public POI in box . Thereafter the portion of the public POI discovery service ends.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing environment according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing environment includes one or more computing devices . Each computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the check in service the public POI discovery service the manual review system the network page server and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the check in service the public POI discovery service the manual review system the network page server and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the public POI discovery service . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the check in service the public POI discovery service the manual review system and the network page server that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

