---

title: Thrombin inhibitors
abstract: 

or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09469608&OS=09469608&RS=09469608
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09469608
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131115
---
Thrombin is a serine protease present in blood plasma in the form of a precursor prothrombin. Thrombin plays a central role in the mechanism of blood coagulation by converting the solution plasma protein fibrinogen into insoluble fibrin.

Edwards et al. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1992 vol. 114 pp. 1854 63 describes peptidyl ketobenzoxazoles which are reversible inhibitors of the serine proteases human leukocyte elastase and porcine pancreatic elastase. European Publication 363 284 describes analogs of peptidase substrates in which the nitrogen atom of the scissile amide group of the substrate peptide has been replaced by hydrogen or a substituted carbonyl moiety. Australian Publication 86245677 also describes peptidase inhibitors having an activated electrophilic ketone moiety such as fluoromethylene ketone or a keto carboxyl derivatives. R. J. Brown et al. J. Med. Chem. Vol. 37 pages 1259 1261 1994 describes orally active non peptidic inhibitors of human leukocyte elastase which contain trifluoromethylketone and pyridinone moieties. H. Mack et al. J. Enzyme Inhibition Vol. 9 pages 73 86 1995 describes rigid amidino phenylalanine thrombin inhibitors which contain a pyridinone moiety as a central core structure.

The invention includes compounds for inhibiting loss of blood platelets inhibiting formation of blood platelet aggregates inhibiting formation of fibrin inhibiting thrombus formation and inhibiting embolus formation in a mammal comprising a compound of the invention in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. These compounds may optionally include anticoagulants antiplatelet agents and thrombolytic agents. The compounds can be added to blood blood products or mammalian organs in order to effect the desired inhibitions.

The invention also includes a compound for preventing or treating unstable angina refractory angina myocardial infarction transient ischemic attacks atrial fibrillation thrombotic stroke embolic stroke deep vein thrombosis disseminated intravascular coagulation ocular build up of fibrin and reocclusion or restenosis of recanalized vessels in a mammal comprising a compound of the invention in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. These compounds may optionally include anticoagulants antiplatelet agents and thrombolytic agents.

The invention also includes a method for reducing the thrombogenicity of a surface in a mammal by attaching to the surface either covalently or noncovalently a compound of the invention.

Compounds of the invention are thrombin inhibitors and may have therapeutic value in for example preventing coronary artery disease. The invention includes compounds of formula I 

The present invention encompasses all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I. Centers of asymmetry that are present in the compounds of Formula I can all independently of one another have R configuration or S configuration. When bonds to the chiral carbon are depicted as straight lines in the structural Formulas of the invention it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence both enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced within the Formula. Similarly when a compound name is recited without a chiral designation for a chiral carbon it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence individual enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced by the name. The production of specific stereoisomers or mixtures thereof may be identified in the Examples where such stereoisomers or mixtures were obtained but this in no way limits the inclusion of all stereoisomers and mixtures thereof from being within the scope of this invention.

The invention includes all possible enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of two or more stereoisomers for example mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in all ratios. Thus enantiomers are a subject of the invention in enantiomerically pure form both as levorotatory and as dextrorotatory antipodes in the form of racemates and in the form of mixtures of the two enantiomers in all ratios. In the case of a cis trans isomerism the invention includes both the cis form and the trans form as well as mixtures of these forms in all ratios. The preparation of individual stereoisomers can be carried out if desired by separation of a mixture by customary methods for example by chromatography or crystallization by the use of stereochemically uniform starting materials for the synthesis or by stereoselective synthesis. Optionally a derivatization can be carried out before a separation of stereoisomers. The separation of a mixture of stereoisomers can be carried out at an intermediate step during the synthesis of a compound of Formula I or it can be done on a final racemic product. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration. Where compounds of this invention are capable of tautomerization all individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are included in the scope of this invention. The present invention includes all such isomers as well as salts solvates including hydrates and solvated salts of such racemates enantiomers diastereomers and tautomers and mixtures thereof.

Furthermore compounds of the present invention may exist in amorphous form and or one or more crystalline forms and as such all amorphous and crystalline forms and mixtures thereof of the compounds of Formula I are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water i.e. a hydrate or common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates particularly the pharmaceutically acceptable solvates and hydrates of the instant compounds are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention along with un solvated and anhydrous forms.

Reference to the compounds of this invention as those of a specific formula or embodiment e.g. Formula I or any other generic structural formula or specific compound described or claimed herein is intended to encompass the specific compound or compounds falling within the scope of the formula or embodiment including salts thereof particularly pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates of such compounds and solvated salt forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

In the compounds of Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominantly found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

It will be understood that as used herein references to the compounds of structural Formula I are meant to also include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and also salts that are not pharmaceutically acceptable when they are used as precursors to the free compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts or in other synthetic manipulations.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic or organic bases and inorganic or organic acids. Salts of basic compounds encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid. Representative salts of basic compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to the following acetate ascorbate adipate alginate aspirate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate camsylate carbonate chloride clavulanate citrate cyclopentane propionate diethylacetic digluconate dihydrochloride dodecylsulfanate edetate edisylate estolate esylate ethanesulfonate formic fumarate gluceptate glucoheptanoate gluconate glutamate glycerophosphate glycollylarsanilate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate hydroxynaphthoate iodide isonicotinic isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylbromide methylnitrate methylsulfate methanesulfonate mucate 2 naphthalenesulfonate napsylate nicotinate nitrate N methylglucamine ammonium salt oleate oxalate pamoate embonate palmitate pantothenate pectinate persulfate phosphate diphosphate pimelic phenylpropionic polygalacturonate propionate salicylate stearate sulfate subacetate succinate tannate tartrate teoclate thiocyanate tosylate triethiodide trifluoroacetate undeconate valerate and the like. Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof include but are not limited to salts derived from inorganic bases including aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic mangamous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Particularly preferred are the ammonium calcium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines cyclic amines dicyclohexyl amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylamine ethylenediamine N ethylmorpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like. Also included are the basic nitrogen containing groups may be quaternized with such agents as lower alkyl halides such as methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chloride bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates like dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides such as decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides aralkyl halides like benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

Also in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH or alcohol group being present in the compounds of the present invention pharmaceutically acceptable esters of carboxylic acid derivatives such as methyl ethyl or pivaloyloxymethyl or acyl derivatives of alcohols such as O acetyl O pivaloyl O benzoyl and O aminoacyl can be employed. Included are those esters and acyl groups known in the art for modifying the solubility or hydrolysis characteristics for use as sustained release or prodrug formulations.

If the compounds of Formula I simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule the invention also includes in addition to the salt forms mentioned inner salts or betaines zwitterions . Salts can be obtained from the compounds of Formula I by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art for example by combination with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or dispersant or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. The present invention also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of physiologically acceptable salts.

Any pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modification of a compound of this invention which results in conversion in vivo to a compound within the scope of this invention is also within the scope of this invention. For example esters can optionally be made by esterification of an available carboxylic acid group or by formation of an ester on an available hydroxy group in a compound. Similarly labile amides can be made. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters or amides of the compounds of this invention may be prepared to act as pro drugs which can be hydrolyzed back to an acid or COOdepending on the pH of the fluid or tissue where conversion takes place or hydroxy form particularly in vivo and as such are encompassed within the scope of this invention. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modifications include but are not limited to Calkyl esters and Calkyl substituted with phenyl esters.

Accordingly the compounds within the generic structural formulas embodiments and specific compounds described and claimed herein encompass salts all possible stereoisomers and tautomers physical forms e.g. amorphous and crystalline forms solvate and hydrate forms thereof and any combination of these forms as well as the salts thereof pro drug forms thereof and salts of pro drug forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

When any variable occurs more than one time in any constituent or in formula I its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Also combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds.

Except where noted the term alkyl refers to both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms Me is methyl Et is ethyl Pr is propyl Bu is butyl unsubstituted or substituted with Calkyl or halogen.

Except where noted the term Ccycloalkyl refers to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl and the like unsubstituted or substituted with Calkyl or halogen.

Except where noted the term carbocycle and variations thereof such as carbocyclic or carbocyclyl as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to a Cto Cmonocyclic saturated ring. Saturated carbocyclic rings are also referred to as cycloalkyl rings e.g. cyclopropyl cyclobutyl etc.

Except where noted the term aryl refers to a stable 6 to 10 membered mono or bicyclic ring system such as phenyl or naphthyl. The aryl ring can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more of Calkyl hydroxyl alkoxy halogen or amino.

Except where noted the term heterocycle or heterocyclic ring refers to a stable mono or bicyclic heterocyclic ring system any ring of which may be saturated or unsaturated and which consists of carbon atoms and heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of N O and S and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized and including any bicyclic group in which any of the above defined heterocyclic rings is fused to a benzene ring. Especially useful are rings containing one oxygen or sulfur one to four nitrogen atoms or one oxygen or sulfur combined with one or two nitrogen atoms. The heterocyclic ring may be attached at any heteroatom or carbon atom which results in the creation of a stable structure. Examples of such heterocyclic groups include piperidinyl piperazinyl 2 oxopiperazinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 2 oxopyrrolodinyl 2 oxoazepinyl azepinyl pyrrolyl 4 piperidonyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyridyl pyridyl N oxide pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl oxazolyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl thiazolyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolyl quinuclidinyl isothiazolidinyl indolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzimidazolyl thiadiazoyl benzopyranyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl furyl tetrahydrofuryl tetrahydropyranyl tetrazole thienyl benzothienyl thiamorpholinyl thiamorpholinyl sulfoxide thiamorpholinyl sulfone and oxadiazolyl. Morpholino is the same as morpholinyl.

Anticoagulant therapy is indicated for the treatment and prevention of a variety of thrombotic conditions particularly coronary artery and cerebrovascular disease. Those experienced in this field are readily aware of the circumstances requiring anticoagulant therapy. The term patient used herein is taken to mean mammals such as primates including humans sheep horses cattle pigs dogs cats rats and mice.

Thrombin inhibition is useful not only in the anticoagulant therapy of individuals having thrombotic conditions but is useful whenever inhibition of blood coagulation is required such as to prevent coagulation of stored whole blood and to prevent coagulation in other biological samples for testing or storage. Thus the thrombin inhibitors can be added to or contacted with any medium containing or suspected of containing thrombin and in which it is desired that blood coagulation be inhibited e.g. when contacting the mammal s blood with material selected from the group consisting of vascular grafts stents orthopedic prosthesis cardiac prosthesis and extracorporeal circulation systems.

Compounds of the invention may be useful for treating or preventing venous thromboembolism e.g. obstruction or occlusion of a vein by a detached thrombus obstruction or occlusion of a lung artery by a detached thrombus cardiogenic thromboembolism e.g. obstruction or occlusion of the heart by a detached thrombus arterial thrombosis e.g. formation of a thrombus within an artery that may cause infarction of tissue supplied by the artery atherosclerosis e.g. arteriosclerosis characterized by irregularly distributed lipid deposits in mammals and for lowering the propensity of devices that come into contact with blood to clot blood.

Examples of venous thromboembolism which may be treated or prevented with compounds of the invention include obstruction of a vein obstruction of a lung artery pulmonary embolism deep vein thrombosis thrombosis associated with cancer and cancer chemotherapy thrombosis inherited with thrombophilic diseases such as Protein C deficiency Protein S deficiency antithrombin III deficiency and Factor V Leiden and thrombosis resulting from acquired thrombophilic disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus inflammatory connective tissue disease . Also with regard to venous thromboembolism compounds of the invention may be useful for maintaining patency of indwelling catheters.

Examples of cardiogenic thromboembolism which may be treated or prevented with compounds of the invention include thromboembolic stroke detached thrombus causing neurological affliction related to impaired cerebral blood supply cardiogenic thromboembolism associated with atrial fibrillation rapid irregular twitching of upper heart chamber muscular fibrils cardiogenic thromboembolism associated with prosthetic heart valves such as mechanical heart valves and cardiogenic thromboembolism associated with heart disease.

Examples of arterial thrombosis include unstable angina severe constrictive pain in chest of coronary origin myocardial infarction heart muscle cell death resulting from insufficient blood supply ischemic heart disease local anemia due to obstruction such as by arterial narrowing of blood supply reocclusion during or after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty occlusion of coronary artery bypass grafts and occlusive cerebrovascular disease. Also with regard to arterial thrombosis compounds of the invention may be useful for maintaining patency in arteriovenous cannulas.

Examples of devices that come into contact with blood include vascular grafts stents orthopedic prosthesis cardiac prosthesis and extracorporeal circulation systems

The thrombin inhibitors of the invention can be administered in such oral forms as tablets capsules each of which includes sustained release or timed release formulations pills powders granules elixirs tinctures suspensions syrups and emulsions. Likewise they may be administered in intravenous bolus or infusion intraperitoneal subcutaneous or intramuscular form all using forms well known to those of ordinary skill in the pharmaceutical arts. An effective but non toxic amount of the compound desired may be employed as an anti aggregation agent. For treating ocular build up of fibrin the compounds may be administered intraocularly or topically as well as orally or parenterally.

The thrombin inhibitors can be administered in the form of a depot injection or implant preparation which may be formulated in such a manner as to permit a sustained release of the active ingredient. The active ingredient can be compressed into pellets or small cylinders and implanted subcutaneously or intramuscularly as depot injections or implants. Implants may employ inert materials such as biodegradable polymers or synthetic silicones for example Silastic silicone rubber or other polymers manufactured by the Dow Corning Corporation.

The thrombin inhibitors can also be administered in the form of liposome delivery systems such as small unilamellar vesicles large unilamellar vesicles and multilamellar vesicles. Liposomes can be formed from a variety of phospholipids such as cholesterol stearylamine or phosphatidylcholines.

The thrombin inhibitors may also be delivered by the use of monoclonal antibodies as individual carriers to which the compound molecules are coupled. The thrombin inhibitors may also be coupled with soluble polymers as targetable drug carriers. Such polymers can include polyvinlypyrrolidone pyran copolymer polyhydroxy propyl methacrylamide phenol polyhydroxyethyl aspartamide phenol or polyethyleneoxide polylysine substituted with palmitoyl residues. Furthermore the thrombin inhibitors may be coupled to a class of biodegradable polymers useful in achieving controlled release of a drug for example polylactic acid polyglycolic acid copolymers of polylactic and polyglycolic acid polyepsilon caprolactone polyhydroxy butyric acid polyorthoesters polyacetals polydihydropyrans polycyanoacrylates and cross linked or amphipathic block copolymers of hydrogels.

The dosage regimen utilizing the thrombin inhibitors is selected in accordance with a variety of factors including type species age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition to be treated the route of administration the renal and hepatic function of the patient and the particular compound or salt thereof employed. An ordinarily skilled physician or veterinarian can readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the drug required to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition.

Oral dosages of the thrombin inhibitors when used for the indicated effects will range between about 0.01 mg per kg of body weight per day mg kg day to about 30 mg kg day preferably 0.025 7.5 mg kg day more preferably 0.1 2.5 mg kg day and most preferably 0.1 0.5 mg kg day unless specified otherwise amounts of active ingredients are on free base basis . For example an 80 kg patient would receive between about 0.8 mg day and 2.4 g day preferably 2 600 mg day more preferably 8 200 mg day and most preferably 8 40 mg kg day. A suitably prepared medicament for once a day administration would thus contain between 0.8 mg and 2.4 g preferably between 2 mg and 600 mg more preferably between 8 mg and 200 mg and most preferably 8 mg and 40 mg e.g. 8 mg 10 mg 20 mg and 40 mg. Advantageously the thrombin inhibitors may be administered in divided doses of two three or four times daily. For administration twice a day a suitably prepared medicament would contain between 0.4 mg and 4 g preferably between 1 mg and 300 mg more preferably between 4 mg and 100 mg and most preferably 4 mg and 20 mg e.g. 4 mg 5 mg 10 mg and 20 mg.

Intravenously the patient would receive the active ingredient in quantities sufficient to deliver between 0.025 7.5 mg kg day preferably 0.1 2.5 mg kg day and more preferably 0.1 0.5 mg kg day. Such quantities may be administered in a number of suitable ways e.g. large volumes of low concentrations of active ingredient during one extended period of time or several times a day low volumes of high concentrations of active ingredient during a short period of time e.g. once a day. Typically a conventional intravenous formulation may be prepared which contains a concentration of active ingredient of between about 0.01 1.0 mg ml e.g. 0.1 mg ml 0.3 mg ml and 0.6 mg ml and administered in amounts per day of between 0.01 ml kg patient weight and 10.0 ml kg patient weight e.g. 0.1 ml kg 0.2 ml kg 0.5 ml kg. In one example an 80 kg patient receiving 8 ml twice a day of an intravenous formulation having a concentration of active ingredient of 0.5 mg ml receives 8 mg of active ingredient per day. Glucuronic acid L lactic acid acetic acid citric acid or any pharmaceutically acceptable acid conjugate base with reasonable buffering capacity in the pH range acceptable for intravenous administration may be used as buffers. The choice of appropriate buffer and pH of a formulation depending on solubility of the drug to be administered is readily made by a person having ordinary skill in the art.

The compounds can also be administered in intranasal form via topical use of suitable intranasal vehicles or via transdermal routes using those forms of transdermal skin patches well known to those of ordinary skill in that art. To be administered in the form of a transdermal delivery system the dosage administration will or course be continuous rather than intermittent throughout the dosage regime.

The thrombin inhibitors are typically administered as active ingredients in admixture with suitable pharmaceutical diluents excipients or carriers collectively referred to herein as carrier materials suitably selected with respect to the intended form of administration that is oral tablets capsules elixers syrups and the like and consistent with convention pharmaceutical practices.

For instance for oral administration in the form of a tablet or capsule the active drug component can be combined with an oral non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as lactose starch sucrose glucose methyl cellulose magnesium stearate dicalcium phosphate calcium sulfate mannitol sorbitol and the like for oral administration in liquid form the oral drug components can be combined with any oral non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as ethanol glycerol water and the like. Moreover when desired or necessary suitable binders lubricants distintegrating agents and coloring agents can also be incorporated into the mixture. Suitable binders include starch gelatin natural sugars such as glucose or beta lactose corn sweeteners natural and synthetic gums such as tragacanth or sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose polyethylene glycol waxes and the like. Lubricants used in these dosage forms include sodium oleate sodium stearate magnesium stearate sodium benzoate sodium acetate sodium chloride and the like. Disintegrators include without limitation starch methyl cellulose agar bentonite xanthan gum and the like.

The thrombin inhibitors can also be co administered with suitable anticoagulants including but not limited to other thrombin inhibitors thrombin receptor antagonists factor VIIa inhibitors factor IXa inhibitors factor Xa inhibitors factor XIa inhibitors adenosine diphosphate antiplatelet agents e.g. P2Y12 antagonists fibrinogen receptor antagonists e.g. to treat or prevent unstable angina or to prevent reocclusion after angioplasty and restenosis other anticoagulants such as aspirin and thrombolytic agents such as plasminogen activators or streptokinase to achieve synergistic effects in the treatment of various vascular pathologies. Such anticoagulants include for example apixaban dabigatran cangrelor ticagrelor vorapaxar clopidogrel edoxaban mipomersen prasugrel rivaroxaban and semuloparin. For example patients suffering from coronary artery disease and patients subjected to angioplasty procedures would benefit from coadministration of fibrinogen receptor antagonists and thrombin inhibitors. Also thrombin inhibitors enhance the efficiency of tissue plasminogen activator mediated thrombolytic reperfusion. Thrombin inhibitors may be administered first following thrombus formation and tissue plasminogen activator or other plasminogen activator is administered thereafter.

Alternatively or additionally one or more additional pharmacologically active agents may be administered in combination with a compound of the invention. The additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a pharmaceutically active agent or agents that is active in the body including pro drugs that convert to pharmaceutically active form after administration which is different from the compound of the invention and also includes free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said additional active agents when such forms are sold commercially or are otherwise chemically possible. Generally any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti hypertensive agents additional diuretics anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents may be used in any combination with the compound of the invention in a single dosage formulation a fixed dose drug combination or may be administered to the patient in one or more separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents co administration of the separate active agents . Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril angiotensin II receptor antagonists also known as angiotensin receptor blockers or ARBs which may be in free base free acid salt or pro drug form such as azilsartan e.g. azilsartan medoxomil potassium EDARBI candesartan e.g. candesartan cilexetil ATACAND eprosartan e.g. eprosartan mesylate TEVETAN irbesartan AVAPRO losartan e.g. losartan potassium COZAAR olmesartan e.g olmesartan medoximil BENICAR telmisartan MICARDIS valsartan DIOVAN and any of these drugs used in combination with a thiazide like diuretic such as hydrochlorothiazide e.g. HYZAAR DIOVAN HCT ATACAND HCT etc. potassium sparing diuretics such as amiloride HCl spironolactone epleranone triamterene each with or without HCTZ neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists aldosterone synthase inhibitors renin inhibitors enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists vasodilators e.g. nitroprusside calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine nifedipine verapamil diltiazem felodipine gallopamil niludipine nimodipine nicardipine potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol metoprolol tartate nadolol propranolol sotalol timolol alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine lipid lowering agents e.g. HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as simvastatin and lovastatin which are marketed as ZOCOR and MEVACOR in lactone pro drug form and function as inhibitors after administration and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of dihydroxy open ring acid HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in LIPITOR rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in PRAVACHOL and fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in LESCOL a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as ezetimibe ZETIA and ezetimibe in combination with any other lipid lowering agents such as the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors noted above and particularly with simvastatin VYTORIN or with atorvastatin calcium niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds for the treatment of diabetes such as biguanides e.g. metformin meglitinides e.g. repaglinide nateglinide sulfonylureas e.g. chlorpropamide glimepiride glipizide glyburide tolazamide tolbutamide thiazolidinediones also referred to as glitazones e.g. pioglitazone rosiglitazone alpha glucosidase inhibitors e.g. acarbose miglitol dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitors e.g. sitagliptin JANUVIA alogliptin vildagliptin saxagliptin linagliptin dutogliptin gemigliptin ergot alkaloids e.g. bromocriptine combination medications such as JANUMET sitagliptin with metformin and injectable diabetes medications such as exenatide and pramlintide acetate or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including but not limited to diazoxide and including the free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms pro drug forms e.g. esters and salts of pro drugs of the above medicinal agents where chemically possible. Trademark names of pharmaceutical drugs noted above are provided for exemplification of the marketed form of the active agent s such pharmaceutical drugs could be used in a separate dosage form for concurrent or sequential administration with a compound of the invention or the active agent s therein could be used in a fixed dose drug combination including a compound of the invention.

Typical doses of thrombin inhibitors of the invention in combination with other suitable anti platelet agents anticoagulation agents or thrombolytic agents may be the same as those doses of thrombin inhibitors administered without coadministration of additional anti platelet agents anticoagulation agents or thrombolytic agents or may be substantially less that those doses of thrombin inhibitors administered without coadministration of additional anti platelet agents anticoagulation agents or thrombolytic agents depending on a patient s therapeutic needs.

Intermediate compounds used to prepare compounds of the invention can be prepared according to Scheme 1.

Intermediate compounds described in Scheme 1 can be prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art. The synthesis generally begins with the core amino acid A. The N H group is protected using a standard amine protecting group such as BOC FMOC CBZ and the like by reacting the amine with the appropriate protecting reagent such as BOC O FMOC Cl CBZ Cl and the like at a temperature of 0 35 C. in an appropriate solvent such as THF dioxane ether dichloromethane and the like with or without added base such as NaHCO EtN and the like for a period of 1 24 hours. In cases where the core contains an additional amino group the second amine is protected with an orthogonal protecting group such as BOC FMOC CBZ and the like using standard techniques known to those skilled in the art. Upon completion the reaction mixture is diluted with water acidified by addition of a strong acid such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid and the like and extracted with an organic solvent such as ethyl acetate ether and the like. The product is isolated by evaporation of the solvent and may be purified by chromatography or used as is in the next step.

The second step of the synthesis involves coupling the core acid with an amine side chain to form an amide bond. This can be accomplished using standard amide bond forming techniques well known to those skilled in the art. The core acid and the side chain amine are dissolved or suspended in a suitable solvent such as DMF THF dichloromethane and the like then a coupling agent such as EDC DCC PyBOP and the like is added and the reaction is allowed to proceed with or without an additive such as HOBT DMAP and the like at a temperature of 0 35 C. for 1 24 hours. Upon completion the reaction mixture is diluted with water washed with a basic aqueous solution such as aqueous sodium bicarbonate aqueous potassium carbonate and the like and extracted with an organic solvent such as ethyl acetate ether and the like. The product is isolated by evaporation of the solvent and may be purified by chromatography or used as is in the next step.

The third step involves removal of the amine protecting group installed in step one using standard methods well known to those skilled in the art. The fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl FMOC group for example is removed by dissolving the product of step two in an appropriate solvent such as dichloromethane ether and the like and adding an organic amine base such as piperidine morpholine and the like. The reaction mixture is stirred at a temperature of 0 35 C. for 1 24 hours then concentrated under vacuum. The residue is purified by silica gel chromatography or HPLC to afford the desired intermediate.

Intermediate compounds used to prepare compounds of the invention can be prepared according to Scheme 2.

Intermediate I2 prepared from either optically pure 2 alkyl proline or racemic 2 alkyl proline I1 via protection of the secondary amino group under standard conditions is coupled to intermediate I3 in the presence of a peptide coupling reagent such as EDC in a solvent such as DMF to form intermediate I4. The Fmoc group is removed with a base such as piperidine to form intermediate I5.

Intermediate compound tert Butyl 2 aminomethyl 4 chlorobenzylcarbamate Intermediate 3a where R is CHNHBoc can be prepared according to Scheme 3.

Through a solution of 2 bromo 5 chlorobenzoic acid 11 g 46.7 mmol in methanol 250 ml was bubbled HCl gas. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture is concentrated in vacuo to give an orange oil which is purified by flash chromatography silica gel hexane to give the title compound as a colorless oil.

To a solution of methyl 2 bromo 5 chlorobenzoate 1.15 g 4.6 mmol in degassed DMF was added zinc cyanide 282 mg 2.40 mmol and palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 100 mg 0.086 mmol and the reaction is stirred at 90 C. over night. The reaction was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic was concentrated in vacuo and purified by flash chromatography eluting a gradient to 10 to 25 ethyl acetate in hexane yielding a white solid methyl 5 chloro 2 cyanobenzoate.

To LAH 1 M EtO 104.4 ml 104.4 mmol in anhydrous THF 300 ml at 0 C was added methyl 5 chloro 2 cyanobenzoate 9.28 g 0.512 mmol maintaining the temperature below 20 C. After one half hour quenched at 0 C. with water 3.97 ml NaOH 1N 11.9 ml 11.9 mmol and water 3.97 ml . A precipitate was filtered out and washed with THF. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and was used immediately in the next step.

To a solution of 2 aminomethyl 5 chlorophenyl methanol in dichloromethane 200 ml was added di tert butyl dicarbonate 11.38 g 52.18 mmol at room temperature. After one hour the reaction was partitioned. The organic layer was concentrated in vacuo and purified by flash chromatography eluting a gradient of ethyl acetate hexane which gave a brown oil which was taken up in dichloromethane 500 ml and treated with activated charcoal yielding a pink solid.

To a solution of tert butyl 4 chloro 2 hydroxymethyl benzylcarbamate 10 g 36.8 mmol in anhydrous THF 100 ml was added DPPA 8.3 ml 38.6 mmol and DBU 5.79 ml 38.6 mmol . The mixture was stirred overnight and then was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with brine and was concentrated in vacuo to a crude oil 14.6 g . Purification was accomplished by silica gel chromatography eluting a gradient of ethyl acetate hexane 10 15 20 25 50 to give tert butyl 2 aminomethyl 4 chlorobenzylcarbamate.

To a solution of tert butyl 2 azidomethyl 4 chlorobenzylcarbamate 10.9 g 36.73 mmol in THF 60 ml and water 6 ml was added triphenylphospine 10.59 g 40.40 mmol . The reaction was heated to 65 C. and stirred overnight at room temperature. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and flashed with 4 10 NHOH MeOH dichloromethane. A second purification using silica gel column chromatography with a careful gradient of 3 to 5 10 NHOH MeOH dichloro methane gave the title compound.

Intermediate compounds used to prepare compounds of the invention where W is a 9 or 10 membered heterocycle can be prepared according to the procedure outlined in Scheme 4.

Intermediate compounds described in Scheme 4 can be prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art. The synthesis generally begins with the core cyclopentanone I6. The cyclopentanone is treated with TMSCN giving rise to the corresponding cyanohydrin I7. The cyanohydrin can be hydrolyzed either by strongly acidic or basic conditions giving rise to the hydroxyacid I8. The acid I8 is then reacted with amine I9 with at a temperature of 0 35 C. in an appropriate solvent such as THF dioxane ether dichloromethane and the like with or without added base such as NaHCO EtN and the like for a period of 1 24 hours. In cases where the core contains an additional amino group the second amine is protected with an orthogonal protecting group such as BOC FMOC CBZ and the like using standard techniques known to those skilled in the art. Upon completion the reaction mixture is diluted with water acidified by addition of a strong acid such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid and the like and extracted with an organic solvent such as ethyl acetate ether and the like. The product is isolated by evaporation of the solvent and may be purified by chromatography or used as is in the next step.

NMR determinations were made using 400 MHz field strength. Ki data was obtained according to the procedure described in Lewis et al. Thromb. Res. 1993 70 173 assays of human thrombin and human trypsin and Lewis et al. Thromb. Haemostasis 1995 74 1107 1112. Reactions sensitive to moisture or air were performed under nitrogen or argon using anhydrous solvents and reagents. The progress of reactions was determined by either analytical thin layer chromatography TLC usually performed with E. Merck precoated TLC plates silica gel 60E 254 layer thickness 0.25 mm or liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LC MS . Typically the analytical LC MS system used consisted of a Waters ZQ platform with electrospray ionization in positive ion detection mode with an Agilent 1100 series HPLC with autosampler. The column was usually a Water Xterra MS C18 3.0 50 mm 5 m. The flow rate was 1 mL min and the injection volume was 10 L. UV detection was in the range 210 400 nm. The mobile phase consisted of solvent A water plus 0.06 TFA and solvent B acetonitrile plus 0.05 TFA with a gradient of 100 solvent A for 0.7 min changing to 100 solvent B over 3.75 min maintained for 1.1 min then reverting to 100 solvent A over 0.2 min. Preparative HPLC purifications were usually performed using a mass spectrometry directed system. Usually they were performed on a Waters Chromatography Workstation configured with LC MS System Consisting of Waters ZQ single quad MS system with Electrospray Ionization Waters 2525 Gradient Pump Waters 2767 Injector Collector Waters 996 PDA Detetor the MS Conditions of 150 750 amu Positive Electrospray Collection Triggered by MS and a Waters Sunfire C 18 5 micron 30 mm id 100 mm column. The mobile phases consisted of mixtures of acetonitrile 10 100 in water containing 0.1 TFA. Flow rates were maintained at 50 mL min the injection volume was 1800 L and the UV detection range was 210 400 nm. Mobile phase gradients were optimized for the individual compounds. Reactions performed using microwave irradiation were normally carried out using an Emrys Optimizer manufactured by Personal Chemistry or an Initiator manufactured by Biotage. Concentration of solutions was carried out on a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure. Flash chromatography was usually performed using a Biotage Flash Chromatography apparatus Dyax Corp. on silica gel 32 63 mM 60 pore size in pre packed cartridges of the size noted. H NMR spectra were acquired at 500 MHz spectrometers in CDClsolutions unless otherwise noted. Chemical shifts were reported in parts per million ppm . Tetramethylsilane TMS was used as internal reference in CDCl solutions and residual CHOH peak or TMS was used as internal reference in CDOD solutions. Coupling constants J were reported in hertz Hz . Chiral analytical chromatography was performed on one of Chiralpak AS Chiralpak AD Chiralcel OD Chiralcel IA or Chiralcel OJ columns 250 4.6 mm Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd. with noted percentage of either ethanol in hexane Et Hex or isopropanol in heptane IPA Hep as isocratic solvent systems. Chiral preparative chromatography was conducted on one of Chiralpak AS Chiralpak AD Chiralcel OD Ciralcel IA or Chiralcel OJ columns 20 250 mm Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd. with desired isocratic solvent systems identified on chiral analytical chromatography or by supercritical fluid SFC conditions. Celite Fluka diatomite is diatomaceous earth and can be referred to as celite .

A solution of tert butylacetyl chloride 1 2 8.6 mL 62.1 mmol in anhydrous THF 50 mL was added dropwise to the mixture of R 4 benzyloxazolidin 2 one 1 1 10.0 g 56.4 mmol EtN 17.4 mL 124 mmol and DMAP 0.86 g 7.04 mmol in anhydrous THF 100 mL at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 3 h. Water 200 mL was added to quench the reaction and the mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 200 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine 200 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash silica gel 40 70 CHCl hexanes to provide acylated intermediate 1 3.

A solution of sodium hexamethyldisilazide 1M in THF 17.9 mL 17.9 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of imide intermediate 1 3 4.50 g 16.3 mmol in THF 60 mL at 78 C. and reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 3.5 h. A solution of tert butyl bromo acetate 1 4 7.2 mL 49.0 mmol in THF 20 mL was added dropwise to the said mixture and mixture was again stirred at 78 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was quenched by NHCl sat. aq. 30 mL and warmed to room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with MTBE 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine solution 100 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash silica gel eluent 20 30 EtOAc hexanes to provide alkylated intermediate 1 5.

TFA 5 mL 65.3 mmol was added to the solution of tert butyl ester intermediate 1 5 3.3 g 8.48 mmol in CHCl 20 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 20 mL and dried over high vacuum pump for 2 h to provide acid 1 6.

The 2.0 M solution of BH MeS in THF 19.1 mL 57.3 mmol was added dropwise to the solution of acid 1 6 2.8 g 8.40 mmol in THF 20 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h. The reaction was quenched by slow addition of MeOH 30 mL at 0 C. and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was purified by combiflash silica gel eluent 50 60 EtOAc hexanes to provide alcohol intermediate 1 7.

MEM Cl 0.71 mL 6.2 mmol and DIPEA 0.63 mL 3.41 mmol were added to the solution of alcohol 1 7 1.0 g 3.1 mmol in THF 20 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 16 h. The reaction was quenched by water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 25 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine solution 25 mL water 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash silica gel eluent 25 30 EtOAc hexanes to provide protected alcohol 1 8.

The solution of LiOH 0.51 g 15 mmol in water 2 mL was added dropwise to the solution of alcohol intermediate 1 8 1.35 g 3 mmol in THF 15 mL and HO 257 mg 6 mmol 30 solution at 0 C. and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 days. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and mixture was diluted with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 5 30 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine solution 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 eluent 40 50 acetonitrile water to provide protected acid 1 9.

The mixture of acid 1 9 0.10 g 0.40 mmol amine 1 10 0.148 g 0.40 mmol EDC 0.084 g 0.44 mmol and HOBt 0.059 g 0.44 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was quenched with water 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine solution 20 mL water 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 eluent 60 70 acetonitrile water to provide 1 11.

The 50 solution of TFA 6 mL in CHClwas added to the solution of 1 11 0.075 g 0.13 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 5 mL and crude product was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 eluent 30 35 acetonitrile water to provide 1 12. H NMR MeOD d 400 MH ppm 7.47 d J 1.6 Hz 1H 7.42 7.36 m 2H 4.46 4.31 m 3H 4.27 4.19 m 2H 3.86 3.80 m 1H 3.71 3.67 m 1H 3.59 3.50 m 2H 2.62 dd J 2.8 Hz J 10.8 Hz 1H 2.20 2.15 m 1H 1.98 1.92 m 3H 1.88 1.68 m 2H 0.98 s 9H .

A solution of di tert butyldicarbonate 29.9 g 137.4 mmol in THF 30 mL was added to the mixture of trans 4 hydroxy L proline 2 1 15.0 g 114.5 mmol and 10 aqueous NaOH 10 g 252 mmol in THF 100 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. Organic solvent was removed at reduced pressure and mixture was diluted with water 200 mL . The aqueous layer was washed with MTBE 200 mL acidified to pH 2 with 10 aqueous KHSO and extracted with EtOAc 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine solution 200 mL water 200 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide Boc protected proline 2 2.

Benzyl bromide 16.0 mL 135 mmol was added dropwise to the mixture of Boc proline intermediate 2 2 24.0 g 104 mmol and EtN 18.1 mL 135 mmol in THF 500 mL at 0 C. and reaction mixture was stirred at same temperature for 30 min and then at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and residue was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with 1N HCl 300 mL water 300 mL aqueous saturated NaHCOsolution 300 mL and water 300 mL . The organic layer dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The oil was purified by column chromatography silica gel eluent 25 30 EtOAc hexanes to provide benzyl ester intermediate 2 3.

Dess Martin periodinane 55.4 g 130 mmol was added in portions to the solution of hydroxyl proline intermediate 2 3 21.0 g 65.4 mmol in CHCl 200 mL at 0 C. The mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred at same temperature for 3 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 200 mL washed with 1 1 mixture of saturated aqueous NaHCO 200 mL solution and saturated aqueous NaSO 200 mL solution. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide ketone 2 4.

 Trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane 2.0 mL 13.7 mmol and TBAF 0.5 mL cat was added dropwise to the solution of ketone intermediate 2 4 4.0 g 12.5 mmol in THF 60 mL at 0 C. and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHClsolution 50 mL and stirred for 15 min. TBAF 20 mL 1.0 M in THF was added and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h. The organic layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with MTBE 3 100 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine solution 200 mL water 200 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash silica gel eluent 20 EtOAc hexanes to provide the hydroxyl trifluoromethyl proline intermediate 2 5.

A mixture of hydroxyl trifluoromethyl proline intermediate 2 5 1.9 g 4.88 mmol SOCl 5 mL 68.8 mmol in anhydrous pyridine 65 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 1 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and quenched with water 50 mL and extracted with MTBE 2 100 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with 1M HCl 50 mL saturated NaHCOsolution 50 mL water 50 mL and brine solution 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash silica gel 20 EtOAc hexanes to obtain intermediate 2 6.

A solid CrO 1.65 g 16.5 mmol was added in portions to the mixture of the pyridine 3.5 mL and CHCl 10 mL at 0 C. and mixture was stirred at same temperature for 20 min. A solution of dihydropyrrole intermediate 2 6 0.30 g 0.80 mmol in CHCl 3 mL was added and mixture was warmed to room temperature followed by stirring at 90 C. for 2 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was washed with MTBE 4 20 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with 1M HCl 20 mL saturated aqueous NaHCO 20 mL water 30 mL and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by combiflash silica gel eluent 20 EtOAc hexanes to provide pyrrole 2 7.

Pd C 0.044 g 20 by wt was added to the solution of the benzyl ester intermediate 2 7 0.22 g 0.59 mmol in EtOAc 20 mL and reaction mixture was stirred under Hatmosphere 1 atm at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc 25 mL and filtered over pad of celite. The filterate was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under educed pressure to provide acid 2 8.

The mixture of acid 2 8 110 mg 0.39 mmol amine 2 9 0.144 g 0.39 mmol HATU 0.448 g 1.18 mmol and DIPEA 0.41 mL 2.36 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The reaction was quenched with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic extract was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 eluent 60 70 acetonitrile water to provide 2 10.

A 50 solution of TFA 5 mL in CHClwas added to the solution of 2 10 0.10 g 0.16 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure the residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 20 mL and dried over high vacuum pump. The crude product was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 20 30 acetonitrile water to obtain 2 11 as white solid. H NMR CDCN 400 MH ppm 11.06 brs 1H 7.91 7.82 m 4H 7.36 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.27 dd J 2 Hz J 23 Hz 2H 7.23 s 2H 6.84 s 1H 4.32 dd J 6 Hz J 16.8 Hz 1H 4.30 quat J 4.8 Hz 1H 4.18 dd J 5.2 Hz J 14.6 Hz 1H 4.10 s 2H 3.79 3.72 m 2H 2.08 1.90 m 3H .

To a solution of methyl 5 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrrole 2 carboxylate 3 1 0.05 g 0.26 mmol in EtOH HO 1 1 2.0 mL was added LiOH 0.031 g 1.29 mmol and mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 106 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and residue was dissolved in water 5 mL and acidified with 2M aqueous HCl solution to pH 3.0 and extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel 20 EtOAc hexanes to provide acid 3 2.

HATU 0.228 g 0.60 mmol was added in portion to the solution of amine 3 3 0.20 g 0.54 mmol acid 3 2 0.10 g 0.65 mmol and DIPEA 0.19 mL 1.09 mmol in DMF 2.0 mL at 0 C. and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 30 mL . The combined organic layer washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 15 mL water 2 50 mL brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel ethylacetate hexanes 2 3 to provide amide 3 4.

A mixture of amide 3 4 0.02 mg 0.038 mmol and TFA 0.43 L 0.57 mmol in CHCl 2.0 mL and water 10 L was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 0 20 acetonitrile water to provide 3 5. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.73 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.66 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.57 7.50 m 1H 7.41 7.34 m 1H 5.0 s 2H 1.37 s 9H .

A solution of HSOin DMSO 9.45 mL 1.0 mol L solution of CFI in DMSO 11.0 mL 3 mol L and aqueous solution of FeSO 3.75 mL 1.0 mol L was added in sequence to a solution of pyrrole 2 carboxylic acid 4 1 1.0 g 9.0 mmol in DMSO 30 ml at room temperature. Thereafter HO 1.02 mL 18.00 mmol 30 in water was added dropwise to the mixture and stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 100 mL extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with water 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel eluent EtOAc hexanes 3 2 to provide 5 trifluoromethyl H pyrrole 2 carboxylic acid 4 2.

HATU 0.228 g 0.60 mmol was added in portion to the mixture of amine 4 3 0.20 g 0.54 mmol acid 4 2 0.107 g 0.60 mmol and DIPEA 0.084 g 0.65 mmol in DMF 2.0 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 30 mL washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 15 mL water 2 50 mL brine 20 mL and dried over anhydrous NaSO. The organic layer was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel ethylacetate hexanes 2 3 to amide 4 4 as amorphous off white solid.

A mixture of Boc protected amine 4 4 0.182 g 0.34 mmol and TFA 0.26 mL 3.44 mmol in CHCl 2.0 mL and water 50 L was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 0 20 acetonitrile water to provide 4 5. H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.47 s 1H 7.43 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 7.39 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 6.79 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 6.63 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 4.59 d J 15.1 Hz 1H 4.55 4.49 m 1H 4.31 d J 15.1 Hz 1H 4.29 4.19 m 2H 4.00 3.88 m 2H 2.36 2.21 m 1H 2.20 1.90 m 3H .

A solution of 4 bromo 1H pyrrole 2 carboxylate 5 1 1.0 g 4.9 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added dropwise to the mixture of sodium hydride 0.22 g 9.8 mmol in DMF 5 mL at 0 C. and mixture was stirred at same temperature for 30 min. SEM Cl 0.95 mL 5.39 mmol was added dropwise and mixture was further stirred at room temperature for 14 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with ice water 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with water 100 mL brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain pyrrole ester 5 2.

A solution of NaOH 0.24 g 6.0 mmol in water 3 mL was added dropwise to a solution of ester 5 2 0.3 g 0.90 mmol in ethanol 3 mL and mixture was heated to reflux for 5 h. The organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the mixture was diluted with water 25 mL and washed with MTBE 25 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 1M aqueous HCl to pH 2 and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic extract were washed with brine solution 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amide 5 3.

A solution of n BuLi 1.6M in hexanes 0.73 mL 1.17 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of bromopyrrole acid 5 3 0.15 g 0.47 mmol in anhydrous THF 3 mL at 78 C. and mixture was stirred at same temperature for 1 h. A solution of aldehyde 5 4 0.066 mL 0.70 mmol in THF 5 mL was added dropwise and mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 4 h. The mixture was quenched with water 30 mL at 0 C. and allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 30 mL neutralized to pH 5 6 with 1M aqueous HCl and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent acetonitrile water to obtain amide 5 5.

The mixture of acid 5 5 0.025 g 0.072 mmol amine 5 6 0.026 g 0.072 mmol HATU 0.055 g 0.144 mmol DIPEA 0.038 mL 0.216 mmol in DMF 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 6 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 20 mL brine solution 2 20 mL . The organic layer was separated dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under redcued pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amide 5 7.

Dess Martin Periodinane 0.067 g 0.158 mmol was added in portions to a solution of alcohol 5 7 0.10 g 0.144 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 20 mL cooled to 0 C. and quenched with 5 aqueous solutions of NaSOand NaHCO 20 mL 1 1 and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The organic layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 25 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 25 mL brine 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under redcued pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amide 5 8.

Trifluoro acetic acid 1.0 mL 13.06 mmol was added to the solution of 5 8 0.05 g 0.07 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 24 h. Volatile by products were removed at reduced pressure residue. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 5 9. H NMR MeOD d 300 MH ppm 8.74 8.72 d J 5.7 Hz 2H 7.73 7.71 m 2H 7.56 7.24 m 5H 4.51 4.39 m 2H 4.38 4.23 m 3H 3.97 3.93 m 2H 2.30 1.92 m 4H .

Trifluoro acetic acid 0.30 mL 3.91 mmol was added to the solution of boc amine 5 7 0.20 g 0.28 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2.5 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and crude intermediate 6 1 was used in the next step without purification.

A mixture of intermediate 6 1 from above step and NHsolution 7N in methanol 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure and water 10 mL was added to the mixture. The solid separated was filtered washed with hexanes and dried under high vacuum. The solid was dissolved in CHCl 2 mL and trifluoro acetic acid 0.3 mL was added and mixture was stirred for 20 min. The solvent and volatiles were removed under reduced pressure. The residue purified by semi preparative HPLC C18 eluent 10 90 acetonitrile water to obtain 6 2. H NMR MeOD d 300 MH ppm 8.73 8.50 m 2H 8.08 7.90 m 2H 7.62 7.35 m 3H 7.15 6.85 m 1H 6.58 6.50 m 1H 5.99 5.78 m 1H 4.64 4.49 m 2H 4.37 4.28 m 3H 3.88 3.67 m 2H 2.24 1.93 m 4H .

Trifluoro acetic acid 2.0 mL 26.12 mmol and EtSiH 0.10 mL 0.64 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of 6 2 0.15 g 0.216 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure residue. The residue was purified by semi preparative HPLC column eluent 10 90 acetonitrile water to obtain 7 1. H NMR MeOD d 300 MH ppm 8.63 brs 2H 7.80 brs 2H 7.46 7.39 m 3H 6.93 br. s 1H 6.68 brs 1H 4.62 4.50 m 2H 4.37 4.14 m 5H 3.95 3.80 m 2H 2.26 1.98 m 4H .

A solution of n BuLi 1.6M solution in hexanes 4.88 mL 7.81 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of 4 bromo 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 1H pyrrole 2 carboxylic acid 8 1 1.0 g 3.12 mmol in anhydrous THF 5 mL at 78 C. and mixture was stirred at same temperature for 1 h. A solution of aldehyde 8 2 0.44 mL 4.68 mmol in THF 5 mL was added dropwise and mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 4 h. The mixture was quenched with water 30 mL at 0 C. and allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 30 mL neutralized to pH 5 6 with 1M aqueous HCl and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent acetonitrile water to obtain acid 8 3.

The mixture of acid 8 3 0.50 g 1.44 mmol amine 8 4 0.53 g 1.44 mmol HATU 0.82 g 2.15 mmol DIPEA 0.63 mL 3.6 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 50 mL brine solution 2 25 mL . The organic layer was separated dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amide 8 5.

 S tert Butyl 4 chloro 2 1 4 nicotinoyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 1H pyrrole 2 carbonyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamidomethyl benzylcarbamate 8 6 Dess Martin Periodinane 0.067 g 0.157 mmol was added in portions to a solution of alcohol 8 5 0.10 g 0.14 mmol in CHCl 8 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 50 mL cooled to 0 C. and added quenched with 5 aqueous solutions of sodium thiosulphate and sodium bicarbonate 50 mL 1 1 . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The organic layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 25 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 25 mL brine 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under redcued pressure to obtain ketone 8 6. The residue was used in the next step without further purification.

Trifluoro acetic acid 1.0 mL 13.06 mmol was added to the solution of ketone 8 6 0.098 g 1.41 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 48 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure residue. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amine 8 7.

NHsolution 7N in MeOH 2 mL was added dropwise to a solution of intermediate 8 7 0.08 g 0.11 mmol in methanol 1.0 mL at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain pyrrole amine 0.045 g crude as off white solid.

Trifluoro acetic acid 0.023 mL 0.30 mmol was added to a solution of above amine in CHCl 1 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The solvent and volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 8 8. H NMR MeOD d 300 MH ppm 8.94 s 1H 8.75 8.74 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 8.35 8.17 m 1H 7.67 7.58 m 2H 7.48 7.37 m 2H 7.25 s 1H 7.10 6.67 m 1H 4.57 4.35 m 3H 4.24 brs 2H 3.98 3.94 m 2H 2.42 1.93 m 4H .

Trifluoro acetic acid 1.0 mL 13.06 mmol was added to the solution of 8 5 0.30 g 0.43 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure residue. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 9 1 as a white solid.

NHsolution 7N in MeOH 3 mL was added dropwise to a solution of intermediate 8 0.12 g 0.24 mmol in methanol 1.0 mL at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed and residue was purified by reverse phase semi preparative HPLC C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain pyrrole amine 9 2. H NMR MeOD d 400 MH ppm 8.72 8.20 m 2H 7.98 7.60 m 1H 7.39 7.11 m 5H 6.98 6.70 m 1H 6.62 5.81 m 1H 4.50 4.42 m 2H 4.18 4.02 m 3H 3.90 3.71 m 2H 2.30 1.89 m 4H .

A mixture of acid 10 1 0.87 g 2.72 mmol amine 10 2 1.0 g 2.72 mmol HATU 1.55 g 4.9 mmol DIPEA 1.20 mL 6.80 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 50 mL brine solution 2 25 mL . The organic layer was separated dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amide 10 3 as pale yellow solid.

A solution of n BuLi 1.6M in hexanes 0.70 mL 1.12 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of bromopyrrole 10 3 0.50 g 0.75 mmol in anhydrous THF 5 mL at 78 C. and mixture was stirred at same temperature for 1 h. A solution of aldehyde 10 4 0.107 g 1.12 mmol in THF 5 mL was added dropwise and mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 4 h. The mixture was quenched with water 30 mL at 0 C. and allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 30 mL neutralized to pH 5 6 with 1M aqueous HCl and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amide 10 5 as pale yellow solid.

Dess Martin periodinane 0.053 g 0.126 mmol was added in potion to a solution of 10 5 0.08 g 0.115 mmol in CHCl 5 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 50 mL cooled to 0 C. and quenched with 5 aqueous solutions of sodium thiosulphate and sodium bicarbonate 50 mL 1 1 . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The organic layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 50 mL brine 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain amide 10 6 as pale yellow solid.

Trifluoro acetic acid 2.0 mL 26.10 mmol was added to a solution of 10 6 0.07 g 0.10 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure residue and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 10 7. H NMR MeOD d 400 MH ppm 8.71 8.70 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 8.20 brs 1H 8.05 8.0 m 2H 7.62 7.58 m 1H 7.47 7.40 m 3H 7.22 6.94 m 1H 4.57 4.51 m 2H 4.38 4.34 d J 15.2 Hz 1H 4.29 4.25 m 2H 4.03 3.97 m 2H 2.28 1.95 m 4H .

Trifluoro acetic acid 1.0 mL 13.06 mmol was added to the solution of 10 5 0.58 g 0.83 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure residue and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 11 1 as a white solid.

A solution of NH 7N in MeOH 5 mL was added dropwise to a solution of 11 1 0.52 g 0.71 mmol in methanol 1 mL and reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and further stirred for 1 h at same temperature. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and residue was purified by reverse phase semi preparative HPLC C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 11 2. H NMR MeOD d 300 MH ppm 8.46 8.45 d J 4.2 Hz 1H 7.90 7.85 m 1H 7.66 7.30 m 5H 6.88 6.70 m 2H 5.91 5.30 m 1H 4.51 4.22 m 5H 3.86 3.77 m 2H 2.24 1.85 m 4H .

Trifluoro acetic acid 1.0 mL 13.06 mmol and EtSiH 0.08 mL 0.51 mmol was added to a solution of 11 2 0.08 g 0.17 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure residue and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 12 1. H NMR MeOD d 300 MH ppm 8.62 8.60 m 1H 8.36 8.25 m 1H 7.79 7.39 m 5H 6.94 6.64 m 2H 4.50 4.22 m 7H 3.88 3.80 m 2H 2.25 1.85 m 4H .

Ethyl 4 bromo 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 1H pyrrole 2 carboxylate 13 2 A solution of Methyl 4 bromo 1H pyrrole 2 carboxylate 13 1 5.0 g 24.50 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added dropwise to the suspension of NaH 1.87 g 49.01 mmol in DMF 50 mL at 0 C. and mixture was stirred for 30 min. Thereafter SEM Cl 4.76 mL 26.96 mmol was added and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 h. The mixture was quenched with ice water 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with water 100 mL brine 50 mL and dried over NaSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain SEM protected pyrrole ester 13 2.

A solution of NaOH 2.0 g 52.39 mmol in water 10 mL was added dropwise to a solution of pyrrole ester 13 2 3.5 g 10.47 mmol in ethanol 30 mL and mixture was heated to reflux for 6 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure residue was diluted with water 50 mL and washed with MTBE 25 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 1N aqueous HCl 10 mL to pH 3 and extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . The combined organic extract were washed with brine solution 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to provide acid 13 3.

DIPEA 4.5 mL 25.78 mmol was added dropwise to the mixture of acid 13 3 3.3 g 10.31 mmol amine 13 4 3.78 10.31 and HATU 5.8 g 15.46 mmol in DMF 30 mL at 0 C. and mixture was stirred at room temperature 4 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 50 mL brine solution 2 50 mL . The organic layer was separated dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amide 13 5.

A mixture of 13 5 0.37 g 0.55 mmol 4 pyridyl boronic acid 13 6 0.13 g 1.10 mmol Pd PPh 0.12 g 0.11 mmol and aqueous NaCO 0.29 g 2.76 mmol in degassed 1 4 dioxane 10 mL was heated in microwave at 120 C. for about 15 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with HO 10 mL extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 2 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash column chromatography silica gel eluent MeOH CHCl to obtain intermediate I3 7.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 2 mL was added to the solution of 13 7 0.12 g 0.18 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure to provide 13 8.

A mixture of 13 8 0.12 g 0.18 mmol and 7N solution of ammonia in methanol 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by combiflash column chromatography silica gel eluent 6 MeOH 2 NHOH CHCl to obtain 13 9.

A mixture of Trifluoro acetic acid 0.0056 mL 0.07 mmol and intermediate I3 9 16 mg 0.03 mmol and in CHCl 1 mL was stirred at room temperature for 20 min. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was triturated with diethyl ether 3 mL filtered to obtain 13 10. H NMR MeOD d 400 MH ppm 8.58 8.57 d 2H 8.19 8.17 d 2H 7.95 s 1H 7.55 7.40 m 4H 4.58 4.54 d 1H 4.36 4.38 d 2H 4.29 4.27 d 2H 4.06 0.99 m 2H 2.31 2.28 m 1H 2.19 2.16 m 1H 2.14 2.07 m 1H 1.95 2.01 m 1H .

A mixture of bromopyrrole 13 5 0.40 g 0.59 mmol 3 pyridyl boronic acid 14 1 0.14 g 1.19 mmol and aqueous NaCO 0.31 g 2.99 mmol and Pd PPh 0.13 g 0.11 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 5 mL degassed was heated at 120 C. in microwave for 15 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 20 mL extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine solution 2 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash column chromatography silica gel eluent MeOH CHCl to obtain intermediate 14 2 as pale yellow solid.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 4 mL was added dropwise to a solution of Boc amine 14 2 0.14 g 0.20 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure to provide amine 14 3 as off white solid.

A mixture of intermediate 14 3 0.120 g 0.25 mmol and ammonia solution 7N solution in methanol 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and residue was purified by combiflash column chromatography silica gel eluent MeOH CHCl NHOH to obtain intermediate 14 4 as off white solid.

Trifluoro acetic acid 0.005 mL 0.07 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of intermediate 14 4 0.016 g 0.03 mmol in CHCland mixture was at room temperature for 20 min. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure residue was stirred with diethyl ether 3 mL for 5 min and filtered to obtain 14 5. H NMR MeOD d 400 MH ppm 9.03 s 1H 8.64 8.62 d 1H 8.53 8.52 d 1H 7.85 30 m 6H 4.57 4.54 d 2H 4.36 4.38 d 2H 4.29 4.27 d 2H 4.04 4.01 m 2H 2.32 2.27 m 1H 2.16 2.08 m 1H 2.13 2.00 m 1H 1.99 1.94 m 1H .

A solution of Boc anhydride 0.83 g 3.82 mmol in THF 3 mL was added dropwise to the mixture of pyrrole 15 1 0.65 g 3.18 mmol EtN 0.9 mL 6.37 mmol and DMAP 0.039 g 0.31 mmol in THF 5 mL at 0 C. and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was quenched by saturated aqueous NHCl solution 50 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with water 30 mL brine 30 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel eluent 0 50 EtOAc hexanes to obtain Boc pyrrole 15 2 as colorless oil.

2 Tributylstannyl pyridine 15 3 0.31 g 0.723 mmol and triethyl amine 0.18 mL 1.32 mmol was added to the degassed solution of bromo pyrrole 15 2 0.2 g 0.66 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 2 mL . Pd PPh 0.15 g 0.13 mmol was added to the mixture and reaction mixture was subjected to microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 1 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 25 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel eluent 0 30 EtOAc hexanes to obtain 15 4 as hygroscopic off white solid.

A solution of NaOH 0.046 g 1.16 mmol in water 1 mL was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 15 4 0.07 g 0.23 mmol in ethanol 2 mL and reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. for 16 h. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in water 10 mL acidified with 1 aqueous citric acid solution to pH 4 and extracted with ethyl acetate 7 20 ml . The combined organic extract was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain acid 15 5 as off white solid.

Triethyl amine 0.1 mL 0.34 mmol was added to the stirred solution of acid 15 5 0.06 g 0.32 mmol amine 15 6 0.23 g 0.64 mmol and HATU 0.13 g 0.35 mmol in THF 5 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was quenched with 1 aqueous citric acid solution 20 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with saturated NaHCOsolution 20 mL water 20 mL and brine 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase column chromatography C18 eluent 10 80 acetonitrile water to obtain amide 15 7 as off white solid.

A mixture of amide 15 7 0.05 g 0.10 mmol trifluoroacetic acid 0.2 mL 2.61 mmol in CHCl 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and triturated with diethyl ether. The solid was dissolved in water 3 mL and lyophilized to obtain 15 8. H NMR MeOD d 400 MH ppm 8.55 8.56 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 8.31 8.35 dd J 7.6 Hz J 7.2 Hz 1H 8.19 8.20 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.91 s 1H 7.62 7.65 t J 6.8 Hz 1H 7.49 s 2H 7.38 7.44 m 2H 4.53 4.59 m 2H 4.34 4.38 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.25 s 2H 3.92 4.08 m 2H 2.26 2.33 m 1H 2.06 2.21 m 2H 1.88 2.01 m 1H .

A solution of tert butylacetyl chloride 16 2 4.3 ml 0.031 mol in THF 25 ml was added dropwise to a mixture of Benzyl 2 oxazolidinone 16 1 5.0 g 0.028 mol triethylamine 8.7 ml 0.062 mol and DMAP 0.34 g 0.0028 mol in THF 25 ml at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was quenched by water 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with 2M aqueous HCl 2 50 mL water 2 100 mL brine solution 100 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel eluent EtOAc hexanes 10 80 to obtain 16 3 as a white solid.

Titanium tetrachloride 4.8 g 0.025 mol was added drop wise to the solution of imide 16 3 6.6 g 0.024 mol in CHCl 75 ml at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 20 min. Thereafter DIPEA 8.35 ml 0.048 mmol was added drop wise at 0 C. followed by addition of benzyl chloromethyl ether 16 4 6.6 ml 0.048 mol after 5 min and mixture was stirred for 4 h. Reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl solution 25 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 100 mL . The combined organic layer washed with water 2 100 mL brine 50 mL and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified column chromatography silica gel eluent 10 90 EtOAc hexanes to protected hydroxyl acid 16 5 as off white solid.

A 30 aqueous hydrogen peroxide 0.6 ml 5.38 mmol and lithium hydroxide 0.064 g 2.69 mmol was added to the solution of imide 16 5 0.82 g 2.69 mmol in mixture of THF water 3 1 4 mL at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. Then aqueous potassium hydroxide solution 0.15 g in 0.75 ml water was added and the mixture was heated under reflux for 3 h. Reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature quenched with 10 aqueous sodium sulphite solution 20 ml and washed with CHCl 2 100 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified to pH 2 using 1M aqueous HCl and extracted with chloroform 3 100 mL . The combined organic layer washed with water 2 100 mL and brine 50 mL and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to hydroxyl acid 16 6 as off white solid.

Triethylamine 0.23 ml 1.64 mmol was added dropwise to the solution of acid 16 6 0.08 g 0.55 mmol amine 16 7 0.21 g 0.55 mmol and HATU 0.23 g 0.603 mmol in THF 5 ml and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was quenched by 1 aqueous citric acid solution 10 mL diluted with water 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 2 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase column chromatography to give obtain 16 8 as off white solid.

Trifluoroacetic acid 0.3 mL 3.91 mmol was added to the solution of Boc protected amine 16 8 0.11 g 0.22 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and residue was dried under high vacuum. The crude product was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent acetonitrile water to obtain 16 9. H NMR MeOD d 400 MHz ppm 7.35 7.46 m 3H 4.33 4.46 m 3H 4.19 4.27 dd J 13.6 Hz J 3.6 Hz 2H 3.65 3.89 m 4H 2.79 2.83 dd J 10.4 J 4.4 Hz 1H 2.19 2.24 m 1H 1.93 2.01 3H m 0.99 9H s .

A mixture of S methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylate hydrochloride 17 1 0.25 g 1.51 mmol R 2 hydroxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoic acid 17 2 0.22 g 1.66 mmol EDCI.HCl 0.37 g 1.96 mmol and HOBt 0.20 g 1.51 mmol and EtN 0.42 mL 3.02 mmol in DMF 3 mL was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 5 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 25 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine 20 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by reverse phase flash chromatography silica gel eluent 0 50 EtOAc hexanes to afford lactone 17 3 as light yellow solid.

Amine 17 4 0.17 g 1.02 mmol was added to the mixture of lactone 17 3 0.18 g 0.85 mmol and EtN 3 mL in CHCl 3 mL and mixture was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 48 h. The reaction was quenched with water 5 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 50 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine 15 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase flash chromatography C18 eluent 10 40 acetonitrile water to afford 17 5. H NMR DMSO d 400 MH ppm 8.27 8.45 m 1H 7.26 7.39 m 3H 5.18 5.20 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.64 4.66 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.50 4.55 m 2H 4.26 4.33 m 3H 3.89 3.91 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 3.63 3.70 m 2H 1.74 2.07 m 4H 0.92 s 9H .

The mixture of acid 18 1 39.8 mg 0.28 mmol amine 18 2 0.10 g 0.28 mmol HATU 0.11 g 0.30 mmol and EtN 0.1 mL 0.82 mmol in DMF 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 25 mL . The combined organic extracts was washed with aqueous saturated NaHCOsolution 20 mL and 1N aqueous HCl 20 mL brine solution 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluent 70 EtOAc hexanes to get amide 18 3 as a light brown solid.

Trifluoroacetic acid 50 solution in CHCl 2 mL was added to Boc protected amine 18 3 75.0 mg 0.15 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and residue by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to get 18 4. H NMR MeOD d 400 MHz 6 ppm 7.12 7.67 m 4H 6.34 6.80 m 2H 4.63 4.67 d J 16 Hz 1H 4.46 4.49 t J 12 Hz 1H 4.18 4.33 m 3H 3.69 3.79 m 2H 2.30 2.36 m 1H 1.92 2.09 m 3H .

A mixture of acid 19 1 0.40 g 2.2 mmol amine 19 2 0.82 g 2.2 mmol EDC 0.85 g 4.4 mmol and HOBt 0.30 g 2.2 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture was diluted with water 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with water 2 30 mL brine 30 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amide 19 3 as white solid.

A 50 solution of TFA 5 mL was added to the solution of amide 19 3 0.12 g 0.22 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 20 mL and purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 30 acetonitrile water to provide 19 4 as white solid. H NMR MeOD 300 MH ppm mixture of diastereomers 8.59 s 1H 7.33 8.21 m 5H 4.52 4.68 m 1H 4.39 4.49 m 2H 4.19 4.34 m 3H 3.90 4.19 m 1H 3.70 3.76 m 1H 3.14 3.25 m 1H 2.69 2.88 m 1H 2.16 2.54 m 2H 1.81 2.17 m 4H .

The mixture 2 3 cyclopenteno pyridine 20 1 5.0 g 42.01 mmol benzaldehyde 6.75 mL 63.86 mmol and acetic anhydride 8 mL was refluxed at 170 C. for 15 h under nitrogen. The solvent and volatile byproduct were removed at reduced pressure and the residue was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 0 5 EtOAc hexanes to afford alkene 20 2 as brown solid.

A solution of RuCl.HO 0.264 g 1.014 mmol in CHCN water 15 mL 1 2 was added to the stirred solution of alkene 20 2 6.0 g 28.98 mmol in CHCN 450 mL . Thereafter a mixture of oxone 26.7 g 43.47 mmol and NaHCO 0.373 g 4.44 mmol was added in portions over a period of 15 min. Reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The mixture was quenched by saturated NaSOsolution 200 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 250 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 200 mL brine 200 mL and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford ketone 20 3 as light green solid.

NMO 0.66 g 5.63 mmol and TMSCN 3.7 mL 28.16 mmol was added to the solution of ketone 20 3 2.5 g 18.77 mmol in CHCl 25 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl solution 20 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 50 mL brine 50 mL and dried over NaSO filtered and concentrate at reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography silica gel eluent 0 10 EtOAc hexanes to afford TMS protected cyanohydrin 20 4 as colorless oil.

To a stirred solution of cyanohydrin 20 4 0.5 g 2.15 mmol in AcOH 1 mL was added conc. HCl 1.5 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and residue was azeotroped with toluene 15 mL . The crude solid was washed with EtOAc 15 mL and CHCl 15 mL to afford acid hydroxyl acid 20 5 as white hygroscopic solid.

PyBrOP 0.508 g 1.089 mmol was added in portions to the mixture of amine 20 6 0.2 g 0.544 mmol acid 20 5 0.23 g 1.089 mmol and triethyl amine 0.45 mL 3.269 mmol in CHCl 5 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h at room temperature. The reaction was quenched with aqueous saturated NaHCOsolution 20 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 15 mL brine 15 mL and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered amd concentrate at reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase flash chromatography C18 eluent 10 40 water acetonitrile to afford Boc protected amide 20 7 as white solid.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 2 mL was added to the solution of Boc protected amine 20 7 0.07 g 0.163 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction mixture was stirred under at room temperature for 1 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 5 mL . The solid was washed with ether 2 5 mL filtered and dried under high vacuum to afford 20 8. H NMR MeOD d 300 MHz ppm 8.51 d J 5.1 Hz 1H 8.08 d J 7.81 Hz 1H 7.36 7.61 m 3H 4.32 4.51 m 3H 4.13 4.29 m 3H 3.52 3.60 m 1H 3.17 3.23 m 1H 2.98 3.11 m 1H 2.80 2.89 m 1H 2.34 2.41 m 1H 2.19 2.25 m 2H 1.81 2.04 m 3H .

A 2M solution of n BuLi in cyclohexane 10 mL 20.0 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 1 3 dihydroisobenzofuran 21 1 2.0 g 16.7 mmol in anhydrous THF 50 mL at 78 C. and reaction mixture was stirred at same temperature for 2 h. Ethylchloroformate 3.2 mL 33.4 mmol was added dropwise to the mixture. The reaction was slowly allowed to warm to room temperature over a period of 15 h and was quenched with water 20 mL . The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine solution 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica eluent 15 EtOAc Hexanes to provide ester 21 2 as yellow oil.

A solution of LiOH HO 0.72 g 18.48 mmol in water 3 mL was added to the solution of ester 21 2 0.71 g 3.70 mmol in THF 3 mL and MeOH 2 mL at 0 C. and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. Solvent was removed at reduced pressure and obtained residue was dissolved in water 10 mL and acidified with 2M aqueous HCl to pH 4 5. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to get acid 21 3 as a pale yellow solid.

Amine 21 4 0.33 g 0.91 mmol was added to a solution of acid 21 3 0.15 g 0.91 mmol EDCI 0.34 g 1.82 mmol HOBt 0.24 g 1.82 mmol and DIPEA 0.30 mL 1.82 mmol in CHCl 2 mL at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 5 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 20 mL washed with saturated NaHCOsolution 20 mL and 0.5M aqueous HCl 10 mL successively. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine solution 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel 50 EtOAc hexanes to get amide 21 5 as pale yellow semi solid.

A 50 solution of trifluoroacetic acid 4 mL was added to the solution of Boc protected amine 21 5 0.22 g 0.42 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and residue was triturated with diethyl ether to afford amine salt 21 6. HNMR DMSO d 1 1 mixture of diastereomers 400 MHz ppm 8.57 8.52 m 1H 8.17 bs 3H 7.45 7.27 m 7H 5.88 5.87 m 1H 5.22 5.07 m 2H 4.41 4.25 m 3H 4.18 4.07 m 2H 3.88 3.60 m 2H 2.13 2.08 m 1H 2.03 1.89 m 2H 1.81 1.68 m 1H .

A mixture of ethyl mercaptoacetate 22 1 3.64 mL 33.28 mmol benzyl alcohol 22 2 1.72 mL 16.64 mmol and ZnI 2.12 g 6.65 mmol in CHCl 20 mL was heated under reflux for 3 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 80 mL washed with water 3 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 22 3 as a colorless oil.

To a solution of 22 3 0.20 g 0.95 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was added m CPBA 0.41 g 2.38 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 14 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was dissolved in EtOAc 25 mL washed with 10 aqueous solution of NaSO 2 20 mL saturated solution of NaHCO 2 20 mL brine solution 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was by purified by combiflash column chromatography silica gel 0 20 EtOAc hexanes to obtain sulfone 22 4 as off white solid.

A mixture of sulfone 22 4 0.13 g 0.55 mmol p toluene sulfonylazide 0.12 g 0.60 mmol and triethyl amine 0.15 mL 1.1 mmol in EtOH 3 mL was stirred at room temperature for 5 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure residue was dissolved in EtOAc 25 mL and washed with 5 aqueous NaOH solution 2 20 mL water 2 20 mL brine solution 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash column chromatography silica gel 0 25 CHCl MeOH to obtain diazoacetate 22 5 as off white solid.

Rhodium acetate 0.005 g 0.01 mmol was added to a solution of diazoacetate 5 0.058 g 0.216 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through pad of celite and washed with CHCl 2 25 mL . The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and residue was purified by combiflash column chromatography silica gel 0 30 EtOAc hexanes to obtain dihydrobenzo a thiophene 22 6 as off white solid.

A solution of LiOH HO 7 mg 0.31 mmol in water 0.5 mL was added to a solution of intermediate 22 6 0.025 g 0.10 mmol in THF MeOH 1 mL 3 2 was added and stirred at room temperature for 14 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure mixture was diluted with water 10 mL . The aqueous solution was washed with MTBE 10 mL acidified with 2M aqueous HCl to pH 4 5 and extracted with EtOAc 3 25 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to provide acid 22 7.

A mixture of acid 7 0.04 g 0.19 mmol amine 22 8 0.076 g 0.21 mmol HOBT 0.025 g 0.19 mmol EDC HCl 0.108 g 0.56 mmol and DIPEA 0.065 mL 0.38 mmol in anhydrous DMF 3 mL was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 10 mL diluted with EtOAc 25 mL and washed with saturated NaHCOaqueous solution 25 mL brine solution 25 mL . The organic layer was separated dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by combiflash column chromatography silica gel eluent 0 20 EtOAc hexanes to obtain amide 22 9.

Trifluoro acetic acid 0.50 mL 6.50 mmol was added to a solution of 22 9 0.045 g 0.08 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 22 10.

A mixture of acid 23 2 1.0 g 3.8 mmol amine 23 1 1.39 g 3.8 mmol HATU 2.9 g 7.6 mmol DIPEA 2 mL 11.4 mL in anhydrous DMF 25 mL was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 2 50 mL brine solution 100 mL . The organic layer was separated dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford amide 23 3.

Trifluoro acetic acid 8 mL 104 mmol was added to the solution of amide 23 3 1.8 g 2.94 mmol in CHCl 20 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h. The volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain polar diastereomer 23 4a and non polar diastereomer 23 4b.

23 4a H NMR DMSO d 400 MH ppm 10.10 8.01 m 5H 7.55 7.25 m 7H 5.86 s 1H 4.73 4.52 m 3H 4.37 4.29 m 2H 4.03 s 2H 3.95 3.85 m 2H 2.24 1.86 m 4H .

23 4b H NMR MeOD d 400 MH ppm 7.49 7.39 m 7H 5.95 s 1H 4.78 s 1H 4.66 dd J 28.4 14 Hz 2H 4.44 dd J 8.4 4.4 Hz 1H 4.37 d J 15.2 Hz 1H 4.24 s 2H 4.03 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 2.41 2.36 m 1H 2.19 2.15 m 2H 2.05 1.99 m 1H .

DIAD 2.18 mL 11 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of Iodophenol 24 1 2.20 g 10 mmol epoxide 24 2 0.82 g 11 mmol and PPh 2.90 g 11 mmol in THF 20 mL at 0 C. and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h. The mixture was diluted with water 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine solution 100 mL and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash silica gel 10 EtOAc hexanes to provide oxirane 24 3 yellow oil.

A 2M solution of n BuLi in THF 0.76 mL 1.5 mmol was added dropwise to the solution of oxirane 24 3 0.28 g 1.01 mmol in THF 8 mL at 90 C. and the reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature over a period of 2 h. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h and quenched with water 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine 30 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash silica gel 30 40 EtOAc Hexanes to provide alcohol 24 4 as colorless oil.

Chromium trioxide 2.5 mg 2 mol and HIO 0.58 g 2.6 mmol were dissolved in MeCN 8 mL by vigorous stirring at room temperature 15 min. The solution was delivered via syringe into the pre cooled solution of the alcohol 24 4 0.20 g 1.3 mmol in CHCl 10 mL at 0 C. over a period of 10 min and stirred at room temperature for 6 h. The reaction was quenched with water 30 mL and aqueous layer was washed with EtOAc 2 30 mL acidified with 1N HCl and extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined organic extract was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to provide acid 24 5 as off white solid.

A mixture of acid 5 0.30 g 1.8 mmol amine 24 6 0.67 g 1.8 mmol EDC 1.05 g 5.4 mmol and HOBt 0.24 g 1.8 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture was diluted with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with water 2 30 mL brine 30 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amide 24 7 as white solid.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 5 mL was added to the solution of amide 7 0.20 g 0.38 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 20 mL and purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 30 acetonitrile water to provide 24 8. H NMR MeOD 400 MH ppm mixture of diastereomers 7.45 7.34 m 3H 7.20 7.10 m 2H 6.86 6.73 m 2H 4.70 4.63 m 3H 4.49 4.24 m 3H 4.18 d J 4 Hz 2H 3.96 3.91 m 1H 3.93 3.78 m 1H 2.32 1.93 m 4H .

Freshly cut pieces of sodium 3.80 g 165 mmol were added to the solution of 1H indole 3 carboxylic acid 25 1 2.00 g 12.4 mmol in n BuOH 60 mL at 70 C. over a period of 1 h and the resulting mixture was refluxed at 125 C. for 2 h under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and quenched by the careful addition of ice cold water 100 mL . The organic solvent removed under reduced pressure and mixture was diluted with water 20 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified to pH 2 3 with 2M HCl and washed with CHCl 2 100 mL . The aqueous layer was basified to pH 9 10 with aqueous NaHCOsolution. Then a solution of Boc anhydride 4.02 g 18.1 mmol in THF 50 mL was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 15 h. THF was evaporated under reduced pressure and aqueous layer was washed with MTBE 2 100 mL . The aqueous layer acidified to pH 3 4 with saturated KHSOsolution and extracted with EtOAc 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 100 mL dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated to afford boc protected indoline 3 carboxylic acid 25 2 as a brown hygroscopic solid 

A mixture of amine 25 3 0.25 g 0.69 mmol acid 25 2 0.21 g 0.81 mmol HATU 0.79 g 2.09 mmol and DIPEA 0.36 mL 2.09 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred under nitrogen for 3 h at room temperature. The reaction was diluted with water 40 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 100 mL brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 2 3 HO CHCN to afford amide 25 4.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 8 mL was added to the solution of amide 25 4 0.15 g 0.24 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 2 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 10 mL . A hygroscopic solid was dissolved in 1 1 acetonitrile water 4 mL and lyophilized for 24 h to obtain 25 5. H NMR 300 MHz MeOD 7.48 7.27 m 5H 7.24 7.10 m 2H 4.73 quat J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.58 4.42 m 1H 4.42 4.26 m 2H 4.18 d J 18.0 2H 4.05 3.81 m 4H 2.40 1.91 m 4H .

To a solution of 6 7 dihydro 5H 1 pyrindine 26 1 12.5 g 104.9 mmol in AcOH 50 mL and HSO 10 mL was added CrO 18.50 g 0.19 mol dissolved in mixture of HO HOAc 36 mL 1 5 at 0 C. and the resulting mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and basified with NHOH to pH 11. The mixture was extracted with CHCl 3 250 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with HO 3 100 brine 1 200 mL dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel 60 EtOAc hexanes to provide ketone 26 2 as brown oil.

NMO 0.44 g 0.37 mmol and TMSCN 7.5 mmol was added to a solution of ketone 26 2 1.00 g 7.5 mmol in CHCl 5 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel eluent EtOAc hexanes to provide cyanohydrin 26 3 as oil.

To a stirred solution of cyanohydrin 26 3 1.34 g 5.76 mmol in AcOH 3 mL was added conc. HCl 5 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 15 mL and washed with EtOAc and CHClto afford acid 26 4 as off white solid.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 20 mL was added to the solution of the 1 Boc azetidine 2 carboxylic acid 26 5 1.00 g 4.9 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure residue was azetrope with toluene 2 20 mL and dried over high vacuum pump for 2 h. The crude residue was used for next step without purification.

A solution of Fmoc Cl 1.08 g 4.18 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 5 mL was added to the mixture of above residue and KCO 1.15 g 8.37 mmol in dioxane water 20 mL 4 1 . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The organic solvent was removed at reduced pressure and mixture was diluted with water 20 mL . The aqueous layer was washed with MTBE 30 mL acidified with 10 aqueous KHSOto pH 2 and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine solution 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated to get acid 26 7 as white solid.

A mixture of acid 26 7 0.50 g 1.78 mmol amine 26 8 484 mg 1.78 EDC 1.02 g 5.36 mmol and HOBt 0.24 g 1.78 mmol in DMF THF 1 1 20 mL was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel 20 30 EtOAc hexanes to provide amide 26 9 as off white solid.

A solution of 50 piperidine in CHCl 5 mL was added to the solution of Fmoc protected mine 26 9 0.57 g 0.98 mmol and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to provide amine 26 10 as colorless gum.

A mixture of amine 26 10 0.20 g 0.56 mmol acid 26 4 0.12 g 0.56 mmol EDC 0.32 g 1.39 mmol and HOBT 0.076 g 0.56 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and residue was purified by combiflash silica gel 0 10 EtOAc MeOH to provide amide 26 11 as white solid.

A solution of 50 TFA 5 mL in CHCl 1 mL was added dropwise to the solution of amide 26 11 0.18 g 0.35 mmol and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 10 mL and purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 10 acetonitrile water to provide 26 12

NMO 0.396 g 3.383 mmol and TMSCN 0.67 mL 5.057 mmol was added to a stirred solution of ketone 27 1 0.45 g 3.383 mmol in CHCl 15 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl solution 10 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 15 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 10 mL brine 10 mL dried over NaSO and concentrate at reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography silica gel eluent 0 10 EtOAc hexanes to afford cyanohydrin 27 2 as colorless oil.

To a stirred solution of cyanohydrin 27 2 0.6 g 3.631 mmol in CHCOOH 2 mL was added con. HCl 2 mL and the mixture was heated at 60 C. for 16 h under nitrogen. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure the residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 10 mL and washed with EtOAc 20 mL and CHCl 20 mL to afford acid 27 3 as white hygroscopic solid.

PyBrOP 2.08 g 4.469 mmol was added in portions to a solution of amine 27 4 0.464 g 2.23 mmol acid 27 3 0.400 g 2.23 mmol and triethyl amine 1.5 mL 11.17 mmol in CHCl 5 mL at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated NaHCOsolution 5 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers was washed with water 20 mL brine 20 mL and dried over NaSO concentrate under reduced pressure. The crude was purified reverse phase flash chromatography C18 column 10 60 acetonitrile water to afford amide 27 5 as a white solid.

Trifluoroacetic acid 2 mL 50 solution in CHCl was added to a solution of t butyl ester 27 5 0.12 g 0.361 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 5 mL . The solid was washed with diethyl ether 2 5 mL and dried under high vacuum to afford acid 27 6 as off white hygroscopic solid.

A mixture of acid 27 6 0.08 g 0.289 mmol amine 27 7 0.078 g 0.289 mmol triethyl amine 0.12 mL 0.869 mmol EDCI 66.6 mg 0.347 mmol and HOBt 39.0 mg 0.347 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated NaHCOsolution 5 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 15 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 15 mL brine 15 mL and dried over NaSO concentrate at reduced pressure. The crude was purified by reverse phase flash chromatography C18 eluent 10 40 water acetonitrile to afford Boc protected compound 27 8 as white solid.

Trifluoroacetic acid 1 mL 50 solution in CHCl was added to a solution of Boc protected amine 27 8 0.025 g 0.047 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 1 h at room temperature. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 5 mL . The solid was washed with diethyl ether 2 5 mL filtered and dried under high vacuum to afford 27 9 as hygroscopic off white solid. H NMR MeOD d 300 MHz ppm 8.71 m 1H 8.61 8.64 m 1H 7.72 7.84 m 1H 7.45 7.55 m 1H 7.38 7.41 m 2H 4.41 4.80 m 3H 4.21 4.30 m 2H 3.97 4.00 m 1H 3.52 3.65 m 1H 3.08 3.19 m 2H 2.72 2.77 m 1H 2.42 2.51 m 1H 2.23 2.31 m 1H 2.03 2.21 m 1H 1.81 2.00 2H m .

TMSCN 0.59 mL 4.40 mmol and NMO 0.103 g 0.88 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 5H cyclopenta c pyridin 7 6H one 28 1 0.5 g 2.90 mmol in CHCl 20 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h. The mixture was diluted with CHCl 50 mL and washed with water 2 30 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and AcOH 5 mL was added. The solvent CHCl was removed and mixture was dissolved in AcOH 10 mL and concentrated HCl 15 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 24 h. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was reprecipitated from EtOAc to obtain hydroxyl acid 28 3 as pale yellow solid.

PyBROP 3.23 g 6.93 mmol was added in portions to the mixture of acid 28 3 0.75 g 3.47 mmol amine 28 4 0.637 g 1.73 mmol and triethylamine 2.9 mL 20.8 mmol at 0 5 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at same temperature for 2 h. The reaction was quenched by 1 aqueous citric acid solution 25 mL and extracted with CHCl 100 mL . The combined organic extract were washed with saturated NaHCOsolution 50 mL and brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase column chromatography followed by semi prep HPLC to obtain amide 28 5 as sticky solid.

Trifluoroacetic acid 0.3 mL 3.92 mmol was added to the stirred solution of Boc protected amine 28 5 90 mg 0.17 mmol in CHCl 5 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and residue was dried under high vacuum. The crude compound was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 28 6 as yellow solid. H NMR MeOD d 400 MH ppm 8.60 8.68 m 2H 7.86 7.97 m 1H 7.50 7.65 m 1H 7.31 7.46 m 2H 4.18 4.53 m 5H 3.93 4.07 m 1H 3.56 3.83 m 1H 3.32 3.44 m 1H 3.12 3.27 m 1H 2.65 2.82 m 1H 2.46 2.56 m 1H 2.21 2.33 m 1H 1.83 2.17 m 3H .

A solution of n BuLi 1.6 M 78.0 mL 126.0 mmol in hexanes was added dropwise to a solution of 6 7 dihydro 5H cyclopenta b pyridine 29 1 10.0 g 84.03 mmol in anhydrous THF 15 mL at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for additional 1 h. The mixture was poured into dry ice and aged for 2 h. The reaction mixture was filtered off dissolved in water 50 mL basified to pH 14 washed with EtOAc 50 mL and CHCl 50 mL to remove impurities. The water layer was acidified to pH 2 3 concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue was dissolved in CHOH 50 mL filtered off the inorganic solids and the filtrate was concentrated to afford 6 7 dihydro 5H cyclopenta b pyridine 7 carboxylic acid hydrochloride 29 2 as yellow solid.

To a solution of acid 29 2 1.0 g 6.097 mmol in CHOH 20 mL was added conc. HSO catalytic and the reaction was heated under reflux for 2 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure the residue was dissolved in water 20 mL neutralized to pH 7 and extracted with EtOAc 2 15 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 20 mL brine 20 mL and dried over NaSO concentrate at reduced pressure to afford methyl ester 29 3 as colorless oil.

A 1.0 M solution of LiHMDS 6.21 mL 6.214 mmol in hexanes was added dropwise to a solution of ester 29 3 1.0 g 84.03 mmol in anhydrous THF 15 mL at 20 C. under nitrogen and the mixture was stirred for 15 min. An ice cooled solution of trisyl azide 1.92 g 6.214 mmol in THF 5 mL was added drop wise at 78 C. and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 20 mL and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase flash chromatography C18 eluent 10 70 water acetonitrile to afford azide 29 4 as light yellow solid.

A 1.0 M solution of trimethyl phosphine 6.12 mL 2.064 mmol in THF was added dropwise to a solution of azide 29 4 0.9 g 4.128 mmol in EtOAc HO mixture 20 mL 10 1 and mixture was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 15 min. A solution of Boc O 0.9 g 4.128 mmol in THF 5 mL EtN 0.57 mL 4.128 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 15 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 20 mL and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrate under reduced pressure to afford Boc protected amine 29 5 as white solid.

A solution of LiOH 0.061 g 2.56 mmol in water 4 mL was added dropwise to a solution of ester 29 5 0.25 g 0.856 mmol in THF MeOH 2 1 6 mL and the mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 16 h at room temperature. The solvent was removed at the reduced pressure residue was dissolved in water 5 mL acidified to pH 2 3 using 1N HCl and washed with EtOAc 2 10 mL . The aqueous layer was concentrated under reduced pressure. The solid residue was suspended in MeOH 20 mL filtered and filtrate was concentrated to afford acid 29 6 as off white solid.

PyBrOP 0.505 g 1.08 mmol was added in portions to a mixture of amine 29 7 0.2 g 0.541 mmol acid 29 6 0.15 g 0.541 mmol and triethyl amine 0.45 mL 3.25 mmol at 0 C. and the reaction was stirred under nitrogen for 2 h at room temperature. The reaction was quenched with saturated NaHCOsolution 5 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 15 mL brine 15 mL and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase flash chromatography C18 eluent 10 60 water acetonitrile to afford non polar diastereomers 29 8a as white solid and polar diasteromer 29 8b as white solid.

Trifluoroacetic acid 3 mL 50 solution in CHCl was added to the solution of Boc protected diasteromer 29 8a 0.05 g 0.08 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 1 h at room temperature. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 5 mL . The solid was washed with diethyl ether 2 5 mL filtered and dried under high vacuum to afford 29 9a. H NMR MeOD d 400 MH ppm 8.52 7.53 d J 4.4 1H 7.92 7.90 d J 7.6 1H 7.39 7.55 m 4H 4.61 4.65 m J 12 1H 4.50 4.53 dd J 3.6 Hz J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.23 4.35 m 4H 3.31 3.40 m 1H 3.15 3.20 m 1H 2.88 2.95 m 1H 2.41 2.51 m 1H 2.31 2.34 m 1H 2.14 2.15 m 1H 1.72 1.83 s 3H .

Trifluoroacetic acid 3 mL 50 solution in CHCl was added to the solution of Boc protected amine 29 8b 0.04 g 0.064 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 1 h at room temperature. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 5 mL . The solid was washed with diethyl ether 2 5 mL and dried under high vacuum to afford 29 9b. H NMR MeOD d 400 MHz ppm 8.55 d J 1.6 1H 7.91 d J 1.6 1H 7.49 dd J 4.8 Hz J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.40 7.44 m 2H 1.61 1.64 m 1H 4.52 4.59 m 2H 4.34 d J 15.2 Hz 2H 4.25 s 2H 3.31 3.40 m 1H 2.99 3.03 m 1H 2.47 2.51 m 1H 2.07 2.27 m 3H 1.78 1.88 m 3H .

NMO 0.08 g 0.680 mmol and TMSCN 0.101 g 1.020 mmol was added to a solution of 7 8 dihydroquinolin 5 6H one 30 1 0.1 g 0.680 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and the mixture was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was quenched with water 10 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 10 mL brine 10 mL and dried over anhydrous NaSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography silica gel eluent 0 20 EtOAc hexanes to afford cyanohydrin 30 2 as a colorless oil.

A mixture of cyanohydrin 30 2 0.4 g 1.626 mmol in CHCOOH 5 mL and conc. HCl 2.5 mL was heated in sealed tube at 60 C. for 24 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and residue was azeotroped with toluene 15 mL washed with EtOAc 15 mL and CHCl 15 mL to afford hydroxyl acid 30 3 as a white hygroscopic solid.

PyBrOP 0.483 g 1.036 mmol was added to a mixture of amine 30 4 0.190 g 0.518 mmol acid 30 3 0.150 g 0.777 mmol and triethyl amine 0.45 mL 3.269 mmol in CHCl 5 mL at 0 C. and the reaction was stirred for 2 h at room temperature under nitrogen. The reaction was quenched with saturated NaHCOsolution 5 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 15 mL brine 15 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase flash chromatography C18 eluent 10 40 acetonitrile water to afford Boc protected compound 30 5 as a white solid.

Trifluoroacetic acid 0.5 mL 50 solution in CHCl was added to a solution of Boc protected amine 30 5 35 mg 0.064 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 1 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 5 mL . The solid was washed with ether 2 4 mL filtered and dried under high vacuum to afford 30 6. H NMR MeOD 400 MHz ppm 8.60 1H s 8.20 8.39 m 1H 7.50 7.74 m 1H 7.41 7.50 m 1H 7.36 7.39 m 2H 4.20 4.55 m 5H 3.85 4.00 m 1H 3.47 3.70 m 1H 3.04 3.14 m 2H 2.20 2.40 m 2H 1.81 2.2.15 m 6H .

NMO 0.54 g 4.90 mmol and TMSCN 0.9 mL 7.40 mmol was added to a solution of compound 31 1 0.9 g 4.90 mmol in CHCl 20 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with water 30 mL and extracted with CHCl 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel 0 40 EtOAc hexanes to obtain cyanohydrin 31 2 as a colorless oil.

To a stirred solution of compound 31 2 0.98 g 3.98 mmol in acetic acid 10 mL was added conc. HCl 15 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was reprecipitated from EtOAc to obtain amide 31 3 as a yellow solid.

A mixture of amide 31 3 0.48 g 2.09 mmol in acetic acid 10 mL and conc. HCl 15 mL was stirred at 60 C. for 48 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and residue was reprecipitated from EtOAc to obtain hydroxyl acid 31 4 as a yellow solid.

PyBrOP 2.26 g 4.87 mmol was added to a mixture of hydroxyl acid 31 4 0.56 g 2.43 mmol amine 31 5 0.45 g 1.22 mmol and EtN 2.0 mL 14.6 mmol in CHCl 20 mL at 5 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with 1 aqueous citric acid solution 50 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 75 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water followed by semi prep HPLC to obtain compound 31 6 as a hygroscopic solid

Trifluoroacetic acid 0.3 mL 3.92 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of Boc protected amine 31 6 90 mg 0.16 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 31 7. H NMR MeOD d 400 MHz ppm 8.62 1H s 8.43 8.56 1H m 7.86 7.88 m 1H 7.33 7.57 m 3H 4.20 4.57 m 5H 3.85 3.99 m 1H 3.51 3.74 m 1H 3.40 3.48 m 1H 2.90 3.03 m 2H 2.33 2.44 m 1H 2.19 2.25 m 1H 1.76 2.10 m 5H .

A mixture of tetrahydroquinoline 32 1 15.0 g 112 mmol and benzaldehyde 12.6 mL 123 mmol in acetic anhydride 25 mL was heated at 170 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture cooled to room temperature neutralized to pH 7 8 with 2 N aqueous NaOH solution and extracted with EtOAc 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 200 mL dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue purified by combiflash chromatography silica gel 3 7 EtOAc Hexanes to afford intermediate 32 2 s dark brown oil.

Ozone gas was purged through a solution of alkene 32 2 10.0 g 45.1 mmol in CHOH at 40 C. for 2 h. Dimethyl sulfide 12.6 mL 270 mmol was added to the mixture at 40 C. and reaction was slowly warmed to room temperature. After stirring for 2 h at room temperature solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue purified by combiflash chromatography silica gel 1 1 EtOAc Hexanes to provide ketone 32 3 as light brown oil

Trimethylsilyl cyanide 2.94 mL 21.9 mmol was added dropwise to the mixture of dihydroquinolinone 32 3 2.15 g 14.6 mmol and N methylmorpholine N oxide 0.51 g 4.38 mmol in CHCl 30 mL and reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 2 h. The reaction quenched with aqueous NHCl solution 30 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 50 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue purified by combiflash chromatography silica gel 1 5 EtOAc Hexanes to provide cycanohydrin 32 4 as brown oil.

A mixture of cyanohydrin 32 4 0.50 g 2.17 mmol conc HCl 5 mL and acetic acid 5 mL was refluxed for 24 h. The reaction mixture cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 10 mL and dried under high vacuum to provide the hydroxy acid 32 5 as brown solid.

DIPEA 0.24 mL 1.30 mmol was added to a suspension of hydrochloride salt 32 5 0.10 g 0.43 mmol in CHCl 10 mL and stirred for 10 min. Thereafter the amine 1 10 0.17 g 0.47 mmol and PyBOP 0.24 g 0.43 mmol was added and mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 24 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 1 4 HO CHCN to provide the amide 32 6 as colorless oil.

A 50 solution Trifluoroacetic acid 6 mL in CHCl 1 mL was added to the solution of Boc protected 32 6 0.10 g 0.18 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 2 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 6 mL . Hygroscopic solid was dissolved in 1 1 acetonitrile water 3 mL and lyophilized for 24 h to obtain 32 7. H NMR 300 MHz MeOD d 8.41 d J 5.10 Hz 1H 8.13 d J 8.10 Hz 1H 7.73 7.60 m 1H 7.56 7.34 m 3H 4.60 4.40 m 3H 4.35 3.80 m 4H 3.45 3.35 m 1H 3.10 2.85 m 2H 2.60 2.40 m 1H 2.32 2.12 m 1H 2.11 1.72 m 4H 1.43 1.26 m 1H .

Amine 33 2 1.17 g 3.09 mmol was added to a solution of acid 33 1 1.0 g 3.09 mmol EDCI 1.17 g 6.18 mmol and HOBt 0.85 g 6.18 mmol in DMF 10 mL at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The mixture diluted with water 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated NaHCOsolution 20 mL 0.5 M aqueous HCl 20 mL brine solution 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel 50 EtOAc Hexanes to obtain amide 33 3 as a yellow semi solid.

Piperidine 0.6 mL was added to a solution of amide 33 3 0.57 g 0.99 mmol in CHCl 6 mL at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness and the residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain amine 33 4 as a white solid.

Amine 33 4 0.20 g 0.58 mmol was added to a solution of acid 33 5 0.07 g 0.42 mmol EDCI 0.17 g 0.84 mmol HOBt 0.12 g 0.84 mmol in DMF 4 mL at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture diluted with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 10 mL 0.5M aqueous HCl 10 mL brine solution 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel 40 EtOAc Hexanes to get amide 33 6 as a light brown solid.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 3 mL was added to a solution of Boc protected amine 6 0.19 g 0.38 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to get 33 7 as a white hygroscopic solid. HNMR CDCl 1 1 mixture of diastereomers 400 MHz ppm 8.94 8.89 m 1H 8.88 8.20 brs 3H 7.45 7.20 m 7H 5.70 s 0.5H 5.63 s 0.5H 5.2 5.16 m 2H 4.84 4.66 m 2H 4.62 4.43 m 1H 4.17 4.40 m 4H 2.52 2.32 m 2H .

A mixture of acid 34 1 300 mg 1.14 mmol amine 34 2 188 mg 1.14 mmol HATU 646 mg 1.71 mmol and DIPEA 0.77 mL 4.57 mmol in DMA 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to provide amide 34 3 as a colorless gum.

A solution of LiOH 64 mg 2.80 mmol in water 1 mL was added dropwise to the solution of amide 34 3 350 mg 0.93 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the mixture was diluted with water 10 mL . The aqueous layer was washed with MTBE 20 mL acidified with 10 aqueous KHSOto pH 2 and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic extract was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to provide acid 34 4 as an off white solid.

A mixture of acid 34 4 301 mg 0.86 mmol amine 34 5 281 mg 1.04 mmol EDC 198 mg 1.04 mmol and HOBt 140 mg 1.04 mmol in DMA 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The reaction was quenched with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic extract was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by combiflash silica gel eluent 30 EtOAc hexanes to provide non polar diasteromer 34 6a and polar diasteromer 34 6b as a colorless gum.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 3 mL was added to the stirred solution of Boc protected amino 34 6a 58 mg 0.096 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 20 mL and dried over high vacuum pump for 2 h. The crude product was purified by reverse phase combiflash C18 eluent 30 acetonitrile water to provide 34 7a. H NMR MeOD 400 MHz ppm 7.53 7.29 m 7H 5.68 5.49 m 1H 4.98 4.12 m 10H 2.81 2.72 m 1H 2.41 2.32 m 1H .

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 5 mL was added to the stirred solution of Boc protected amino 34 6b 110 mg 0.18 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 20 mL and dried over high vacuum pump for 2 h. The crude product was purified by reverse phase combiflash 30 acetonitrile water to provide 34 7b. H NMR MeOD 400 MH ppm 7.58 7.33 m 7H 5.69 5.54 m 1H 4.98 4.95 m 1H 4.72 dd J 14.4 Hz J 44 Hz 2H 4.63 4.52 m 2H 4.52 4.12 m 4H 2.826 2.67 m 1H 2.51 2.20 m 1H .

Triethylamine 1.48 mL 10.5 mmol was added to a mixture of amine hydrochloride salt 35 1 0.35 g 2.11 mmol acid 35 2 0.44 g 1.68 mmol and HATU 1.60 g 4.22 mmol and the mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 3 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 100 mL brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 1 4 water CHCN to afford 35 3 as an oil.

A solution of LiOH HO 0.09 g 2.16 mmol in HO 2 mL was added to a stirred solution of ester 35 3 0.27 g 0.72 mmol in CHOH THF 6 mL 1 1 and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and mixture was diluted with water 10 mL acidified to pH 3 4 with aqueous KHSOsolution and extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated to provide the acid 35 4 as an off white solid.

A mixture of acid 35 4 0.19 g 0.54 mmol amine 35 5 0.20 g 0.54 mmol EDCI 0.11 g 0.60 mmol and HOBt 0.02 g 0.13 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred under nitrogen for 3 h at room temperature. The reaction was diluted with water 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 100 mL brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 1 3 water CHCN to afford 35 6 as a colorless oil.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 10 mL was added to the solution of 35 6 0.25 g 0.41 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 2 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 10 mL . The resulting hygroscopic solid was dissolved in 1 1 acetonitrile water 4 mL and lyophilized for 24 h to obtain 35 7. H NMR 300 MHz MeOD 7.43 s 1H 7.39 d J 10.8 Hz 2H 7.14 6.93 m 2H 6.72 6.60 m 2H 4.82 brs 1H 4.60 4.45 m 1H 4.42 4.37 m 2H 4.27 4.05 m 4H 3.71 3.59 m 2H 2.66 2.45 m 1H 2.45 2.20 m 1H 

A mixture of acid 36 1 0.07 g 0.253 mmol amine 36 2 0.053 g 0.253 mmol triethyl amine 0.03 mL 0.253 mmol EDCI 0.058 g 0.304 mmol and HOBt 0.041 g 0.304 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was quenched with aqueous saturated NaHCOsolution 5 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 15 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 15 mL brine 15 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase flash chromatography C18 eluent 10 40 water acetonitrile to afford 36 3. H NMR MeOD d 400 MHz ppm 9.16 s 1H 9.03 s 1H 8.41 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 8.33 t J 4.4 Hz 1H 8.16 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.74 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.69 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.62 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.54 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.3 t J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.41 t J 4.0 Hz 1H 7.22 7.27 m 3H 7.19 dd J 4.8 Hz 7.6 Hz 1H 5.27 s 1H 4.90 s 1H 4.77 dd J 8.0 Hz J 13.2 Hz 1H 4.66 dd J 3.6 Hz J 7.6 Hz 1H 4.34 dd J 6.4 Hz J 15.6 Hz 1H 4.16 4.23 m 3H 3.34 3.43 m 2H 3.15 3.31 m 2H 3.0 3.08 m 2H 2.61 2.79 m 2H 2.42 2.42 m 3H 2.05 2.09 m 4H 1.92 1.94 m 2H 1.30 1.41 m 3H .

A solution of dimethyl 2 2 dimethylsuccinate 37 1 5.0 g 28.57 mmol and TMSC1 15.0 mL 116.1 mmol in toluene 20 mL was added dropwise to a suspension of sodium metal 2.6 g 114.2 mmol in anhydrous toluene 50 mL under nitrogen atmosphere over a period of 1 h and the mixture was refluxed for 36 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature the mixture was filtered through a pad of celite and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain cyclobutene 37 2 as a colorless oil. The crude residue was used for next step without any further purification.

Bromine 1 mL 18.3 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of intermediate 37 2 4.20 g 16.86 mmol in a hexanes pentane 1 1 30 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 45 C. for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was used without purification. 1N aqueous NaOH solution 10 mL was added to the solution of the above residue 2.33 g 20.33 mmol in THF 20 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. Solvent was removed at reduced pressure residue was dissolved in water 10 mL and acidified with 2M aqueous HCl to pH 4 5. The aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to get acid 37 4 as a pale yellow solid.

The mixture of acid 37 4 0.2 g 1.54 mmol amine 37 5 0.2 g 1.23 mmol EDCI 0.59 g 3.07 mmol HOBt 0.41 g 3.07 mmol and DIPEA 0.6 mL 3.07 mmol in CHCl 3 mL was stirred at room temperature for 14 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 20 mL washed with saturated NaHCOsolution 10 mL and 0.5 M HCl 10 mL successively. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine solution 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluent 40 EtOAc hexanes to obtain lactone 37 6 as a white solid 0.1 g 31 and amide 37 7 as a colorless semi solid.

Triethylamine 3 mL was added to a solution of lactone 37 6 0.1 g 0.48 mmol and Boc protected amine 37 8 0.15 g 0.51 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 72 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluent 60 EtOAc hexanes to afford amide 37 9 as a pale yellow semi solid.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 4 mL was added to the solution of Boc protected amine 37 9 0.18 g 0.37 mmol in CHCl 2 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and residue was triturated with diethyl ether to afford amine salt 37 11a as a white hygroscopic solid. HNMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.46 t J 5.2 Hz 1H 8.15 brs 3H 7.57 7.49 m 1H 7.39 7.33 m 2H 6.0 brs 1H 4.44 4.27 m 3H 4.14 4.02 m 3H 3.99 3.88 m 1H 2.11 1.73 m 4H 1.15 s 3H 1.98 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 0.84 s 3H 0.38 d J 4.4 Hz 1H .

A solution of LiOH HO 0.25 g 1.28 mmol in water 2 mL was added to the solution of ester 37 7 0.71 g 3.70 mmol in THF 3 mL at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. Solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in water 10 mL and acidified with 2M aqueous HCl to pH 4 5. The aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain acid as a colorless liquid.

The mixture of acid 0.14 g 0.63 mmol amine 37 8 0.17 g 0.63 mmol EDCI 0.24 g 1.26 mmol and HOBt 0.17 g 1.26 mmol in CHCl 4 mL was stirred at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 14 h. The mixture was diluted with CHCl 20 mL washed with saturated NaHCOsolution 10 mL and 0.5 N HCl 10 mL successively. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluent 60 EtOAc hexanes to obtain 37 10 as pale yellow semi solid.

A 50 solution of TFA in CHCl 2 mL was added to the solution of 37 10 0.13 g 0.50 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and residue was triturated with diethyl ether to provide amine salt 37 11b as an off white hygroscopic solid. HNMR 400 MHz CDCN 8.27 t J 5.2 Hz 1H 8.02 bs 3H 7.47 d J 1.6 Hz 1H 7.43 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.33 dd J 8.0 Hz J 2.0 Hz 1H 5.85 brs 1H 4.49 dd J 14.8 Hz 6.0 Hz 1H 4.35 4.16 m 4H 3.90 3.83 m 1H 3.62 3.58 m 1H 2.21 2.16 m 1H 1.98 1.96 m 1H 1.90 1.73 m 2H 1.24 s 3H 1.11 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 0.89 s 3H 0.50 d J 5.2 Hz 1H .

A mixture of acid 38 2 31.3 mg 0.42 mmol EDCI 61.1 mg 0.32 mmol HOBt 33.1 g 0.24 mmol DIPEA 0.5 mL 0.28 mmol and amine 38 1 90 mg 0.24 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The mixture was diluted with water 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with saturated NaHCOsolution 20 mL 1N aqueous HCl 20 mL brine solution 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography silica gel eluent 10 MeOH CHCl to get amide 38 3 as off white solid.

Trifluoroacetic acid 50 solution in CHCl 3 mL was added to Boc protected amine 38 3 80.0 mg 0.17 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain 38 4. H NMR DMSO d 300 MH ppm 8.49 8.88 m 1H 8.12 brs 3H 7.39 7.43 d J 12.0 Hz 3H 4.34 4.57 m 1H 4.15 4.32 m 2H 3.80 4.12 m 2H 3.49 3.77 m 3H 3.42 3.48 m 2H 1.68 2.10 m 8H .

A solution of saccharin 5.0 g 27.3 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added drop wise to the mixture of NaH 1.2 g 30 mmol 60 dispersion in mineral oil in DMF 50 mL at 0 C. under an argon atmosphere. The mixture was stirred for 5 min and p methoxybenzyl chloride 4.0 mL 30.0 mmol was added drop wise at the same temperature. The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and heated to reflux bath temperature 110 C. for 5 h. Thereafter the mixture was cooled to room temperature quenched with water 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 200 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with water 3 100 mL brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was recrystallized from CHCl hexanes to provide sultam 39 2 as a colorless crystalline solid.

DIBAL H 25.4 mL 23.5 mmol 1.0 M solution in hexanes was added drop wise to the solution of sultam 39 2 6.5 g 21.4 mmol in CHCl 77 mL at 78 C. under an argon atmosphere and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. The reaction was carefully quenched with 30 aqueous solution of Rochelle s salt and the resulting mixture was vigorously stirred at 25 C. for 3 h. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was recrystallized from EtOAc hexanes to provide 3 hydroxysultam 39 3 as colorless oil.

BF EtO 1.2 mL 9.7 mmol and TMSCN 18.3 mL 18.2 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of 3 hydroxysultam 39 3 2.80 g 9.16 mmol in CHCl 35 mL at 78 C. under an argon atmosphere and mixture was stirred for 1 h. The mixture was warmed to 0 C. and quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution pH 8 . The organic layer was separated washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was recrystallized from CHCl hexanes to provide nitrile 39 4 as amorphous white solid.

MeOH 20 mL and acetyl chloride 4.0 mL 55.8 mmol were added sequentially to a solution of nitrile 39 4 1.2 g 3.82 mmol in anhydrous 1 4 dioxane 10 mL at 0 C. The mixture was warmed to 25 C. and was stirred for 3 days. The mixture was quenched with water 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic phase was washed with an aqueous saturated NaHCOsolution 20 mL water 2 20 mL and brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give ester 39 5 as a colorless oil.

A solution of ceric ammonium nitrate 8.45 g 15.1 mmol in water 15 mL was added drop wise to the solution of sultam 39 5 1.37 g 3.94 mmol in CHCN 46 mL at room temperature and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure diluted with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel eluent 30 70 EtOAc hexanes to provide ester 39 6 as a brown solid.

A solution of LiOH 123 mg 5.1 mmol in water 2 mL was added drop wise to the solution of ester 39 6 370 mg 1.63 mmol in THF 5 mL at room temperature and mixture was stirred for 10 min. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure the residue was diluted with water 20 mL washed with MTBE 1 20 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 2N HCl to pH 2 and extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide 3 carboxysultam 39 7 as a white solid.

Diisopropylethyl amine 0.36 mL 2.03 mmol was added to the mixture of amine 39 8 620 mg 1.69 mmol acid 40 7 360 mg 1.69 mmol and HATU 706 mg 1.86 mmol in DMF 5.0 mL at 0 C. and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 25 mL water 2 50 mL brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel EtOAc hexanes 20 30 to provide amide 39 9 as diastereomeric mixture as pale yellow gummy solid.

Trifluoroacetic acid 1.2 mL 15.6 mmol and water 100 L were added to a solution of boc amine 39 9 0.58 g 1.04 mmol in CHCl 10.0 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and residue was purified by column chromatography C18 CHCN water 10 40 to provide diastereomer 39 10a 243 mg as amorphous white solid and diasteromer 39 10b as amorphous white solid.

39 10a H NMR 400 MHz CDCl mixture of rotamers 7.81 7.74 m 1H 7.71 7.59 m 2H 7.54 7.47 m 1H 7.44 s 1H 7.40 7.32 m 2H 5.61 s 0.3H 5.59 s 0.7 H 4.65 d J 14.2 Hz 0.4 H 4.48 4.32 m 2.6H 4.32 4.10 m 2H 4.02 3.81 m 2H 2.36 2.25 m 1H 2.22 2.11 m 1H 2.12 1.91 m 2H 

39 10b H NMR 300 MHz CDCl mixture of rotamers 7.81 7.71 m 1H 7.71 7.58 m 2H 7.53 7.47 m 1H 7.44 s 1H 7.40 7.32 m 2H 5.61 s 0.3H 5.60 s 0.7 H 4.65 d J 15.0 Hz 0.4 H 4.50 4.23 m 2.6H 4.22 4.08 m 2H 4.02 3.79 m 2H 2.38 2.23 m 1H 2.23 1.89 m 3H 

The mixture of acid 40 1 0.1 g 0.44 mmol amine 40 2 0.17 g 0.48 mmol HATU 0.18 g 0.48 mmol DIPEA 0.24 mL 1.32 mL in anhydrous DMF 10 mL was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 50 mL extracted with EtOAc 3 25 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous solution of NaHCO 2 25 mL brine solution 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford amide 40 3 as a brown solid.

Trifluoro acetic acid 1 mL 60 mmol was added drop wise to a stirred solution of amide 40 3 0.12 g 0.21 mmol in CHCl 5 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 0 40 acetonitrile water to obtain 40 4. H NMR DMSO d 400 MH ppm 8.62 s 1H 8.41 7.98 m 6H 7.49 7.38 m 3H 4.44 4.41 m 1H 4.35 4.34 m 2H 4.10 4.02 m 2H 3.59 3.53 m 2H 2.32 2.31 m 2H 2.13 2.12 m 1H 1.97 1.83 m 8H 1.70 1.67 m 1H .

Trifluoro acetic acid 2 mL 120 mmol was added drop wise to the stirred solution of Boc amino acid 41 1 0.5 g 2.18 mmol in CHCl 10 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and residue was dried under high vacuum to obtain 1 aminocyclopentanecarboxylic acid compound with 2 2 2 trifluoroacetic acid.

A 2N solution of sodium hydroxide 5.45 mL 10.9 mmol and methane sulfonyl chloride 0.51 g 6.54 mmol was added to the solution of above amino acid in THF 20 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The organic solvent was removed at reduced pressure. The mixture was diluted with water 10 mL acidified with aqueous 1N HCl to pH 3 and extracted with EtOAc 3 25 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford sulphonamide 41 2 as a brown semi solid.

The mixture of acid 41 2 0.06 g 0.29 mmol amine 41 3 0.11 g 0.29 mmol HATU 0.12 g 0.32 mmol DIPEA 0.15 mL 0.87 mL in anhydrous DMF 10 mL and was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 50 mL extracted with EtOAc 3 25 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous solution of NaHCO 2 25 mL brine solution 25 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford amide 41 4 as a brown solid.

Trifluoro acetic acid 0.5 mL 30 mmol was added drop wise to a stirred solution of amide 41 4 0.08 g 0.14 mmol in CHCl 3 mL and mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent and volatiles were removed at reduced pressure and dried under high vacuum. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 0 30 acetonitrile water to obtain 41 5. H NMR DMSO d 400 MH ppm 8.13 8.09 m 4H 7.73 s 1H 7.42 7.40 m 3H 4.48 4.27 m 3H 4.09 s 2H 3.87 3.84 m 1H 3.74 3.71 m 1H 2.95 s 3H 2.31 2.24 m 1H 2.22 2.06 m 2H 1.94 1.86 m 4H 1.71 1.56 m 5H .

A mixture of acid 42 1 0.10 g 0.80 mmol amine 1 10 0.29 g 0.80 mmol HATU 0.61 g 1.61 mmol and EtN 0.34 mL 2.41 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred under nitrogen for 3 h at room temperature. The reaction was quenched with water 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with water 2 100 mL brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 eluent 0 30 HO CHCN to afford the amide 42 2 as a colorless oil.

A 50 solution of Trifluoroacetic acid in CHCl 5 mL was added to the solution of Boc protected amine 42 2 0.14 g 0.29 mmol in CHCl 5 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 2 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 8 mL . Hygroscopic solid was obtained dissolved in 1 1 acetonitrile water 4 mL and lyophilized for 24 h to obtain 42 3 as hygroscopic off white solid. H NMR 300 MHz MeOD d 8.91 d J 5.1 Hz 1H 8.56 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 7.59 t J 5.1 Hz 1H 7.25 7.48 m 3H 4.89 4.81 m 1H 4.62 4.53 m 1H 4.37 4.13 m 1H 4.18 4.13 m 2H 3.85 3.73 m 2H 2.40 2.21 m 1H 2.15 1.90 m 3H 

Relevant in vitro assays are referenced in Morrissette et al. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 2004 14 4161 4164 and described in Lewis et al. Thromb. Res. 1993 70 173 assays of human thrombin and human trypsin and Lewis et al. Thromb. Haemostasis 1995 74 1107 1112. The assays were carried out at 25 C. in 0.05 M TRIS buffer pH 7.4 0.15 M NaCl 0.1 PEG. Trypsin assays also contained 1 mM CaC12. In assays wherein rates of hydrolysis of a p nitroanilide pna substrate were determined a Thermomax 96 well plate reader was used was used to measure at 405 nm the time dependent appearance of p nitroaniline. sar PR pna was used to assay human thrombin K 125 M and bovine trypsin K 125 M . p Nitroanilide substrate concentration was determined from measurements of absorbance at 342 nm using an extinction coefficient of 8270 cmM.

Activity assays were performed by diluting a stock solution of substrate at least tenfold to a final concentration 0.1 Kinto a solution containing enzyme or enzyme equilibrated with inhibitor. Times required to achieve equilibration between enzyme and inhibitor were determined in control experiments. Initial velocities of product formation in the absence V or presence of inhibitor V were measured. Assuming competitive inhibition and that unity is negligible compared K S I e and I e where S I and e respectively represent the total concentrations of substrate inhibitor and enzyme the equilibrium constant K for dissociation of the inhibitor from the enzyme can be obtained from the dependence of V Von I shown in the following equation. 1 

The activities shown by this assay indicate that the compounds of the invention may be therapeutically useful for treating various conditions in patients suffering from unstable angina refractory angina myocardial infarction transient ischemic attacks atrial fibrillation thrombotic stroke embolic stroke deep vein thrombosis disseminated intravascular coagulation and reocclusion or restenosis of recanalized vessels.

Tablets containing 25 50 and 100 mg. respectively of the following active compounds are prepared as illustrated below compositions A C . Active I is S N 2 Aminomethyl 5 chlorobenzyl 1 R 2 2 hydroxyethyl 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamide 2 2 2 trifluoroacetate.

All of the active compound cellulose and a portion of the corn starch are mixed and granulated to 10 corn starch paste. The resulting granulation is sieved dried and blended with the remainder of the corn starch and the magnesium stearate. The resulting granulation is then compressed into tablets containing 25 50 and 100 mg respectively of active ingredient per tablet.

Exemplary compositions of 5 N 2 Aminomethyl 5 chlorobenzyl 1 R 2 2 hydroxyethyl 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamide 2 2 2 trifluoroacetate Active I tablets are shown below 

0.25 2 10 and 50 mg tablets were film coated with an aqueous dispersion of hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and titanium dioxide providing a nominal weight gain of 2.4 .

Active I mannitol and microcrystalline cellulose were sieved through mesh screens of specified size generally 250 to 750 m and combined in a suitable blender. The mixture was subsequently blended typically 15 to 30 min until the drug was uniformly distributed in the resulting dry powder blend. Magnesium stearate was screened and added to the blender after which a precompression tablet blend was achieved upon additional mixing typically 2 to 10 min . The precompression tablet blend was then compacted under an applied force typically ranging from 0.5 to 2.5 metric tons sufficient to yield tablets of suitable physical strength with acceptable disintegration times specifications will vary with the size and potency of the compressed tablet . In the case of the 2 10 and 50 mg potencies the tablets were dedusted and film coated with an aqueous dispersion of water soluble polymers and pigment.

Alternatively a dry powder blend is compacted under modest forces and remilled to afford granules of specified particle size. The granules are then mixed with magnesium stearate and tabletted as stated above.

Intravenous formulations S N 2 Aminomethyl 5 chlorobenzyl 1 R 2 2 hydroxyethyl 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamide 2 2 2 trifluoroacetate Active I were prepared according to general intravenous formulation procedures.

Various other buffer acids such as L lactic acid acetic acid citric acid or any pharmaceutically acceptable acid conjugate base with reasonable buffering capacity in the pH range acceptable for intravenous administration may be substituted for glucuronic acid.

