---

title: Identifying social profiles in a social network having relevance to a first file
abstract: Methods and systems for providing related social profiles in a social network are disclosed. One method identifying a plurality of social profiles within the social network, wherein the plurality of social profiles each have a relationship with the first file, wherein the social network allows uploading and sharing of social profiles of users, and wherein each social profile includes a representation of a user. The method further includes generating, by a system server, a list of inquiries based on the plurality of social profiles, providing, by the system server, the list of inquiries to at least one author of the first file, receiving from the at least one author at least one response to the list of inquiries, selecting a subset of the plurality of social profiles based on the at least one response, and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles for access if the first file is selected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09077775&OS=09077775&RS=09077775
owner: Python4Fun, Inc.
number: 09077775
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20131122
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 438 266 filed on Apr. 3 2012 and granted as U.S. Pat. No. 8 612 434 on Dec. 17 2013 which is herein incorporated by reference.

The described embodiments relate generally to search results. More particularly the described embodiments relate to methods and systems for identifying social profiles in a social network having relevance to a first file.

In a social network search engines use a variety of search techniques to present social profiles to users based on one or more search terms which are provided by the users. The relevance of the search results relate closely to the search terms. Selection of a profile from the search results in the search engine of a social network provides a list of social profiles related to the selected social profile. Users who like to read more about the related subject matter use the results suggested by the author or the search engine itself. For documents published after the publication date of the selected document users have to rely on the search engine to provide a relevant list. The documents suggested by search engines are based on the search engine s algorithm. The search engine generally produces a large number of documents which include some irrelevant results and are difficult to sort for relevant documents. Many suggested documents are not relevant to the user. Relevant results are not always provided.

It is desirable to have methods and systems for providing an up to date list of documents related to the selected document relevant to the subject matter of the selected document in a social network.

One embodiment includes a method of identifying one or more social profiles in a social network related to a first file. The method includes identifying a plurality of social profiles within the social network wherein the plurality of social profiles each have a relationship with the first file wherein the social network allows uploading and sharing of social profiles of users and wherein each social profile includes a representation of a user. The method further includes generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of social profiles providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one author of the first file receiving from the at least one author at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of social profiles based on the at least one response and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles for access if the first file is selected.

Another embodiment includes providing the list of inquiries to more than one author. In another embodiment a different list of inquiries is provided to a first author and other authors. The identified social profiles are ranked based on the responses from all the authors and a subset of social profiles is selected.

Other aspects and advantages of the described embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.

The described embodiments are embodied in methods and systems for providing a set of social profiles to a user in a social network where the set of social profiles have relevance to the first file from a search or retrieval of a record identifying the first file.

Enterprises create shared social networks for various business activities. Users can upload social profiles and share the social profiles immediately without the need to email or transport using portable storage drives. For at least some embodiments the social network allows uploading and sharing of social profiles of users and each social profile includes a representation of a user. In an embodiment the shared social profiles have read or read and write privileges. Researchgate Academia LinkedIn Facebook Biomedexperts Quora Stackoverflow Chatter and Jive are examples of social networks. In the described embodiments social network is an online service focusing on building network among people who share interests and or activities. A social network consists of a representation of each user by a social profile and the user s social links and a variety of additional services. Social network also provides a platform for interaction with other users via e mail and instant messaging.

The social network stores social profiles in different formats not limited to word document power point presentations portable document format pdf spreadsheets photos and videos. In one embodiment of a social network a user may contribute to the social profile system. In an embodiment any user may edit a social profile similar to a wiki. In another embodiment write privilege to a social profile may be assigned to a certain group of users such as team of users or a team of people working on a project.

In an embodiment a first file may be information describing a person s interests in the social network such as Facebook or research papers by an author listed on the social profile in a social network such as Researchgate or Academia identified to generate a list of related social profiles. In another embodiment a first file may be answers given by the author to questions in social networks such as Quora or Stackoverflow or expert profiles posted in enterprise social networks such as Chatter or Jive identified to generate a list of related social profiles. In several embodiments the first file may be a recently added social profile to the social network or identified due a large number of social profiles added to the social network in the same subject matter or identified automatically for a periodic update of related social profiles or identified by any other method. It is to be understood that for various embodiments the first file includes at least one of a web page a document an article a social profile a message a message thread a conversation a video file an audio file or a picture file. It is also to be understood that this is not an exhaustive list.

At least some embodiments of the social network are updated constantly as users add social profiles to the social network. As the number of social profiles grows large the existence of the social profile may not be known to many users if relevant hyperlinks to other social profiles are not created. Creating hyperlinks is a manual task and often few social profiles are linked together in a social network. Search engines provide access to the social profiles that are not linked.

Many author authors list references to social profiles of other users with related interests in their social profiles. The social profiles referenced by author authors are generally more relevant than the machine generated references. Unlike machine generated references using an algorithm running on a computer the judgment of human users in selecting reference profiles is uniquely valuable to other readers due to the author s intrinsic understanding and motivation to identify materials related to the social profile written by that user. In general an author or expert has greater interest and more precise understanding of the subject matter compared to other readers. In several embodiments a social profile author is the author of a social profile an expert on the subject matter or a team member or a person who is identified for correspondence related to the social profile or listed in the metadata of the profile anyone who has write privilege to the profile.

Search engines list social profiles that may be related to a first file that may be published before or after the first file has been published. When a social profile is selected from the search results a set of possibly related social profiles is generally presented by search engines. The list may not always be accurate. For example when asked to evaluate the accuracy of the list of related social profiles an author of the first file or expert on the subject matter of the first file may not always concur with the relationship of all the social profiles presented in the list of related social profiles provided by the search engine. Therefore lists of possibly related social profiles produced by search engines may contain some social profiles that are actually related true positives and some that are unrelated in practice false positives . The set of related social profiles produced by a search engine are based on some criteria such as the number of hyperlinks a social profile has common subject matter and the frequency of certain phrases. The number of hyperlinks to a social profile is one of the criteria used by search engines to rank it in search results to make it visible to users searching for it. If a social profile has no hyperlinks a social profile that is actually related may be missing from the list of related social profiles presented by the search engine false negatives . The list of related social profiles presented by a search engine can be improved by surveying an expert or author to recommend the related social profiles and eliminate false positives and false negatives. The method of semi automating the presentation of a list of related social profiles using surveys is described in the embodiments.

For at least one embodiment a set of social profiles related to the first file is identified in social network by server . In one embodiment identifying in social network includes server identifying a set of social profiles related to the first file and receiving the list of identified social profiles. In another embodiment identifying in social network includes server receiving the list of identified social profiles. The set of identified social profiles can be the output of natural language search or text analysis or from filtering or any other search technique. The search can be based on a string of words or a picture or an author. The set of social profiles is derived based on a relationship with the first file. The relationship can be any one of or some of author of the first file author of the references cited in the first file frequently used noun phrases publication date later than the first file a specific publication date or a publication date after a specific date. Social profiles published from an author tend to have common subject matter. Frequently used noun phrases in the first file are also keywords for searching related social profiles. However the number of occurrences of specific noun phrases in the social network system may change with technology or over a period. Many search engines may not have the intelligence to recognize the changing noun phrases over a period. In some embodiments the full text of the social profile is used for searching to yield more relevant related social profiles. Social profiles with publication date later than the first file are valuable as users are generally interested in recent updates. In an example a search engine operating on server uses Facebook Graph API to identify post publication updates to profiles in Facebook based on noun phrases in full text. The algorithm used to generate the search terms using Facebook Graph API automatically extracts noun phrases from a social profile using natural language processing tools and ranks them by the number of occurrences in the social profile compared to the number of occurrences on the web.

In an embodiment link validation is used to generate the list of related documents . Link validation is defined as search results from queries where the queries are present in one or more links provided by the author in their social profile. Link validated search terms improve the relevance of the search results compared to search terms that are not present in the links. The links can written by the same authors as the social profile or written by different authors.

For an embodiment a server generates a list of inquiries based on the set of social profiles related to the first file. In an embodiment the list of inquiries includes questions asking the author whether the social profiles are relevant to the first file and the search terms used in keyword search or noun phrase used to select the social profile.

For an embodiment again referring to a social profile author is notified of the list of inquiries generated by server . In the described embodiments the notification can be sent electronically. In an embodiment the notification email contains a link to a webpage that contains the list of inquiries. In another embodiment the email contains the text of the inquiries. In another embodiment the notification is sent by an email or message on a social network such as Facebook or instant message system. In another embodiment the notification is sent from a web based interface such as Jive or LinkedIn or Google Docs . The author of the social profile completes the inquiry by selecting one or more social profiles related to the first file in the opinion of the author and sends the response to the server using any of the notification methods described in several embodiments above. Server receives the response to the inquiry from the social profile author and processes the response. The response includes a selection of social profiles related to the first file. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related social profiles identifying the relevance of the related social profiles to the first file.

In an embodiment social profiles selected by the social profile author are ranked higher than the social profiles not selected by the social profile author. In an embodiment a subset of the ranked social profiles is selected. In another embodiment all social profiles selected by social profile author are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked social profiles are selected. Server creates a hyperlink between the first file and the subset of selected ranked social profiles in the social network. The hyperlink influences future search results of the engine when the first file or any of the subset of social profiles is involved. Server stores information about the subset of related social profiles in a social network in database . The information includes one or more of hyperlinks to the related social profiles ranking of the social profiles the author of the first file and metadata of the social profiles. In the described embodiments hyperlinks are references to social profiles that connect the users to another social profile or a portion of the social profile. In another embodiment database is a separate storage. When a user selects the social profile identifier from search results or any other listing server retrieves information about the selected ranked related social profiles. In several embodiments the author is presented with a list of information about the related social profiles shown in and . In one embodiment the identity of the authors of the social profiles who selected each social profile is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the author s name institution and qualifications.

For at least one embodiment the list of inquiries generated by server is notified to the first social profile author . In at least some of the described embodiments a first social profile author is the author of the first file an expert on the subject matter or a team member or anyone who has write privilege to the first file. The list of inquiries is also notified to second social profile author . In at least some of the described embodiments the second social profile author is one or more social profile author other than the first social profile author. The first and second social profile authors are notified electronically as described in conjunction with . Server receives responses from the first social profile author as well as the second social profile authors. The response includes a selection of social profiles related to the first file. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related social profiles identifying the relevance of the related social profiles to the first file. In an embodiment social profiles are ranked based on the number of selections from the first and the second social profile authors. In an embodiment the social profiles selected by the first social profile author are ranked higher than the social profiles selected by second social profile authors. In another embodiment all responses are ranked with the same weight. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked social profiles are selected. In another embodiment all social profiles selected by the first social profile author and the second social profile authors are selected.

For at least some embodiments information about the selected ranked social profiles is stored in database . User selection of the first file identifier from search results or any other listing is sent to server . In several embodiments server retrieves information about the selected ranked list of related social profiles from the social network before presenting to the user shown in and . In one embodiment the identity of the social profile author s who selected each social profile is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the social profile author s name institution and qualifications.

For this embodiment one or more social profiles related to a first file are identified by server in a social network similar to the description in conjunction with . A list of inquiries is generated by server based on the social profiles related to the first file. The list of inquiries includes questions asking the relevance of the related social profile to the first file. The list of inquiries is notified to a first author . A first response is received from first author by server . The first response includes selection of social profiles that are related to the first file in the opinion of the first social profile author . In an embodiment the first response includes a ranked list of the related social profiles identifying the relevance of the related social profiles to the first file. A second list of inquiries is generated based on the first response. The second list of inquiries includes questions about the selection of the social profiles related to the first file by the first social profile author. In an embodiment the second list of inquiries includes one or more of the selection of related social profiles by the first social profile author the publication date the abstract the unique identification number the search terms used to identify the related social profile or the noun phrases used to identify the social profiles or the noun phrases in the links of the first file.

For at least some embodiments second authors are notified electronically by methods discussed in conjunction with with the second list of inquiries. Server receives the second response from second social profile authors and analyzes the second response. The second response further refines the machine generated search results. The second response includes a selection of social profiles related to the first file. In an embodiment the second response includes a ranked list of the related social profiles identifying the relevance of the related social profiles to the first file.

In an embodiment server generates a questionnaire based on identified social profiles related to the first file . The questionnaire includes the opinion of the social profile author of the identified social profiles about the selection as a related social profile to the first file. The questionnaire is notified to the social profile authors of identified social profiles . Server receives response3 from the authors of identified social profile . In an embodiment server ranks an identified social profile based on the number of selections from second social profile authors and the selection from the author of identified social profile . A subset of the ranked related social profiles is selected. In an embodiment all social profiles selected by second social profile authors are selected. In another embodiment related social profiles receiving a certain rank are selected. Information related to the selected ranked social profiles is stored in social network . In an embodiment the information related to the selected ranked social profile includes one or more of hyper link to the selected social profile the author of the selected social profile the title of the selected social profile the social profile authors the opinion of the author of the selected social profile opinion of the authors of the first file institution of the social profile author the published date and the selection rank date. When a user selects the first file identifier server retrieves the information related to the selected related social profiles from social network . In several embodiments information related to the subset of selected ranked social profiles is presented to the user shown in and . In one embodiment the identity of the social profile authors who selected each social profile is presented to the user by displaying meta data such as the social profile author s name institution and qualifications. In another embodiment information about the opinion of the social profile author of the selected social profile is presented to the user.

The list of inquiries is notified to the author of the social profile . A response is received from the social profile author. The response includes a selection of social profiles related to the first file and optionally the reason for relevancy in the social profile author s opinion. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related social profiles identifying the relevance of the related social profiles to the first file. Server ranks the related social profiles based on the response from the social profile author. A subset of the ranked related social profiles is selected. Server stores information about the subset of selected ranked social profiles in database . When a second search yields a plurality of search results containing the information identifying first file server retrieves the stored information about the subset of selected ranked social profiles and influences the ranking of the first file relative the search results when presenting the search results to the user. In one embodiment the identity of the social profile authors who selected each social profile is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the author s name institution and qualifications.

In step the server generates a list of inquires based on the search results of step to access the relevancy of the search result. The list of inquiries includes questions about each related social profile. In an embodiment the inquiries list the title of one or more social profiles identified in the search the publication date and the search terms used to identify the social profile. Other embodiments may not list all the above items. and show an example of the list of inquiries presented to authors. In step the list of inquiries is notified to at least one author of the first file. In the described embodiments the notification can be sent electronically by an email or a message on a social network or instant message. Web based interface is another method of notifying the social profile author.

In step method receives at least one response to the list of inquiries from the social profile authors. The response includes a selection whether any of the social profiles are relevant to the first file. If any of the social profiles are relevant a selection of the relevant social profile and optionally the reason for the social profile being relevant is received by the server. In an embodiment the response includes a list of the related social profiles identifying the relevance of the related social profiles to the first file. In step method analyzes the responses from the social profile authors. The related social profiles are ranked based on the number of selections received from the social profile authors. A subset of the ranked related social profiles is selected. In an embodiment all social profiles selected by the social profile authors are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked social profiles are selected. In another embodiment social profiles receiving certain rank are selected. Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of social profiles. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the social network when the first file is involved. In step information about the selected ranked social profiles related to the first file is stored. The information about the selected ranked social profiles includes at least one of hyperlinks to the social profiles in the social network the rank of each social profile in the selected subset metadata of the social profiles. The information may be stored on the social network or any other storage system.

Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked social profiles that may be more relevant than the machine generated referenced. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of social profiles or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

In step method receives a selection of the first file identifier or information about the first file from a user. The social profile or information about the social profile may be selected from search results or from a list of social profiles. The server retrieves the stored information about the selected ranked social profiles in step . In several embodiments information about the related social profiles is displayed to the user in step as shown in and . In one embodiment the identity of the authors who selected each social profile is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the author s name institution and qualifications. Steps are performed when a user selects the first file for display.

In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

In method a set of one or more social profiles related to a first file is identified in step . In step a first list of inquiries about the set of social profiles identified in step is generated. The first list of inquires includes questions whether each of the identified social profiles are related to the first file and optionally why they are related. In the described embodiment steps and are similar to steps and respectively. The first list of inquiries is notified to a first social profile author of the first file in step . A first response to the first list of inquiries is received in step . The response includes a selection of social profiles related to the first file and optionally the reason for the selection. In step a second list of inquires based on the response from the first social profile author about the relevance of the set of social profiles to the first files is generated. In an embodiment the second list of inquiries includes a list of social profiles selected by the first social profile author for selecting social profiles related to the first file. In an embodiment the second list of inquires includes questions whether the second social profile author agrees with the first social profile author. In another embodiment the second list of inquiries includes the reason for a social profile being relevant to the first file.

One or more second social profile authors of the first file are notified with the second list of inquiries in step . In step one or more second responses is received from the second social profile author s . In an embodiment a questionnaire is generated based on the list of identified social profiles in step A. The questionnaire includes whether the identified social profile is related to the first file. The questionnaire is notified to one or more authors of the plurality of identified social profiles. In step B server receives response from one or more authors of the plurality of identified social profiles.

In step the second response from the second social profile authors in analyzed. In an embodiment the response from one or more authors of the plurality of identified social profiles is analyzed. In an embodiment social profiles are ranked based on the number of selections from the second authors. In another embodiment social profiles are ranked based on the response from authors of identified social profiles in addition to the response from second social profile authors. In an embodiment the response includes identifying the relevance of the related social profiles to the first file. In an embodiment social profiles are ranked based on the number of selections from the second social profile authors. In another embodiment the ranking of a social profile is also based on the opinion of the author of the identified social profile. A subset of the ranked social profiles is selected. In an embodiment all social profiles selected by the second social profile authors are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked social profiles or social profiles with a certain rank are selected. Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of social profiles. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the social network when the first file is involved. In step information related to the selected ranked subset of social profiles related to the first file is stored in a social network. The information includes one or more of hyperlink to the selected social profile opinion of the social profile authors opinion of the authors of the selected social profile the institution of the social profile author s the ranking of the selected social profile and the date of ranking.

Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked social profiles that may be more relevant than the machine generated references. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of social profiles or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

In step the server receives a selection of the first file identifier. Information about the related social profiles of the first file stored in a social network is retrieved in step . Information related to the selected ranked social profiles related to the first file is presented to the user in step . Steps are performed when a user selects the first file for display. Steps and are similar to steps and respectively. In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

In step the list of inquiries is notified to one or more social profile authors. In step method receives at least one response from the social profile authors providing information about the relevancy of related social profiles to the first file and optionally the reason for a social profile being related in the opinion of the social profile author. In step the related social profiles are ranked based on the number of selections from the social profile authors. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related social profiles identifying the relevance of the related social profiles to the first file. A subset of the ranked social profiles is selected. Information related to the subset of social profiles is stored in a database in step . Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of social profiles. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the social network when the first file is involved. Steps and may be similar to steps and .

Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked social profiles that may be more relevant than the machine generated referenced. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of social profiles or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

A second search in the social network using a search engine yields a first file and the server receives a selection of the first file identifier in step . The selection of the first file can influence the search results of future searches. The server retrieves information about the related social profiles stored in step from the social network in step . In an embodiment in step information about the related social profiles is presented to the user as shown in and . In one embodiment the identity of the authors who selected each social profile is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the author s name institution and qualifications. Steps and may be similar to steps and . Steps and are repeated for every search yielding the first file. In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

One or more social profiles related to a first file in the social network are identified by server or server or server . In the described embodiments the first file can reside in author user system or in the social network or in server system . The related social profiles are identified by natural language search or text analysis or from filtering or any other search techniques. In an embodiment server or or extracts from noun phrases from social profiles in the social network using natural language processing tools and ranks them by the number of occurrences in the social profile compared to the number of occurrences on the social network. In an embodiment the search terms are in the text of the citations in the first file. In another embodiment the search terms are in the abstract or the full text of the social profiles in the social network. In one embodiment server searches the social network using Facebook Graph API to automatically extract noun phrases from social profiles using natural language processing tools and rank them by the number of occurrences in the social profile compared to the number of occurrences on the social network. In an embodiment link validation is used to generate the list of related social profiles.

In another embodiment the Facebook related profiles method is used to identify the social profiles or papers published after the first file in a social network. On Facebook related profiles are derived from text analysis of social profiles and a ranked list of social profiles that may be related is presented to the user. For each word or term in each social profile a numeric weight is computed based on the number of times the word occurs in the social profile and the number of social profiles the term occurs in within the social network. The numeric weight is used to find the most similar pairs of papers or social profiles.

In an embodiment the list of inquiries generated by the system server includes one or more identified social profiles related to a first file. In an embodiment the inquiries include the search terms used in a search using text analysis or filtering. In another embodiment the list of inquires includes one or more identified social profiles and the noun phrases from the first file used to identify the social profiles. In an embodiment the list of inquiries presented to the first social profile author includes one or more titles of related of social profiles the search term used to identify the related social profiles the noun phrases in the citations of the first file the publication date the abstract and the unique identification. The list of inquiries to second social profile author is influenced by a response received from a first author. The list of inquiries to the second social profile author includes one or more of the selection of related social profiles by the first social profile author the search terms used to identify the related social profile the noun phases used in citation validation techniques the abstract the unique identification number and the publication date. In an embodiment the list of inquiries includes one or more of the types of relationship tags of the identified social profile such as whether the identified social profile summarizes the first file contradicts the first file or complements the first file.

The list of inquires is notified electronically to one or more second social profile authors. The method of notification of the list of inquiries to the first social profile author and the second social profile authors comprises at least one of an email messaging on a social network instant message or a web based interface notification.

In an embodiment a questionnaire is generated by the system server includes one or more identified social profiles related to a first file. In an embodiment the questionnaire includes whether the identified social profile is related to the first file. The questionnaire is notified to the author of the identified social profile. The method of notification of the questionnaire to the author of the identified social profile comprises at least one of an email messaging on a social network instant message or a web based interface notification.

The related social profiles are ranked based on the number of selections from the social profile authors. In an embodiment a selection of the related social profile from each social profile author is ranked equally. In another embodiment selection of a social profile from the first social profile author receives higher ranking. In another embodiment the selection of a social profile from a social profile author who responds to queries more often is ranked higher. In another embodiment selection by the author designated for correspondence receives higher ranking. In an embodiment all social profiles selected by the social profile authors are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of the ranked social profiles are selected. In another embodiment social profiles receiving a certain rank are selected.

An embodiment of a method of identifying social profiles in a social network having relevance to a first file comprising identifying a plurality of social profiles within the social network wherein the plurality of social profiles each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of social profiles providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one author of the first file receiving from the at least one author at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of social profiles based on the at least one response and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles for access if the first file is selected.

An embodiment of a method further comprising generating by the system server a second list of inquiries based on the plurality of social profiles providing by the system server the second list of inquiries to at least one second author of the plurality of social profiles receiving from the at least one second author of the plurality of social profiles at least one second response to the second list of inquiries re selecting the subset of the plurality of social profiles based on the at least one response and the at least one second response storing information related to the re selected subset of the plurality of social profiles for access if the first file is selected. An embodiment of a method further comprising providing by the system server the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles to a user that selects the first file and identifying the at least one author to the user.

An embodiment of a method wherein identifying the at least one author comprises providing the user with the at least one author s name qualifications or institution. An embodiment of a method further comprising providing by the system server the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles to a user that selects the first file and identifying the at least one author of the first file and the at least one author of the plurality of social profiles to the user wherein identifying the at least one author comprises providing the user with the at one of a name qualifications or institution of the at least one author. An embodiment of a method further comprising providing a hyperlink between the first file and the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles wherein the hyperlink influences a ranking of search results that include at least one of the first file and the plurality of social profiles. An embodiment of a method wherein the plurality of social profiles are each identified by a plurality of subject matter searches wherein each search identifies one of the plurality of social profiles and the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein at least one of the plurality of subject matter searches is refined by the at least one response.

An embodiment of a method wherein at least one of the plurality of subject matter searches uses a keyword search application programming interface to access records in a social network. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes search terms used in a search that identified the first file and the plurality of social profiles thereby establishing a relationship between the first file and the plurality of social profiles by text analysis or filtering. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise strings of words. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise noun phrases. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise author names cited by the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise a term within the first file.

An embodiment of a method the search is based on at least one of a word string an author or an image. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms are included within text of links of the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein each of the plurality of social profiles include a publication date wherein each of the publication dates are more recent than at least one of a first revision or a last revision date of the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein each of the plurality of social profiles includes a publication date wherein each of the publication dates comprises a specific date. An embodiment of a method wherein each of the plurality of social profiles includes a publication date wherein each of the publication dates comprises a date before a specific date. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes titles of at least a subset of the plurality of social profiles. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes authors of at least a subset of the plurality of social profiles. An embodiment of a method wherein the at least one author includes a first author and a second author and wherein the list of inquiries for the first author is influenced by a response received from the second author. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes a relationship tag between at least one of the plurality of social profiles and the first file. An embodiment of a method where in the relationship tag comprises at least one question of whether the relationship of the at least one of the plurality of social profiles is supportive contradictory or summarizing. An embodiment of a method wherein providing the list of inquiries to the at least one author of the first file comprises electronically communicating the list of inquires to the at least one author using a notification. An embodiment of a method wherein the notification comprises at least one of an email messaging on a social network or instant message. An embodiment of a method wherein the notification comprises a web based interface notification.

An embodiment of a method wherein receiving from the at least one author at least one response to the list of inquiries comprises receiving a selected subset of the plurality of social profiles that the at least one author selects as being relevant to the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein receiving from the at least one author at least one response to the list of inquiries comprises receiving a ranked list of at least a subset of the plurality of social profiles that identifies an order of relevance of the at least the subset of the plurality of social profiles to the first file. An embodiment of a method further comprising providing the at least one inquiry based on one response to at least one other author receiving from the at least one other author at least one second response to the at least one response re selecting the subset of the plurality of social profiles based on the at least one second response storing information related to the re selected subset of the plurality of social profiles for access if the first file is selected.

An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries is provided to a plurality of authors and responses received from each of the plurality of authors are compiled for selecting the subset of the plurality of social profiles. An embodiment of a method wherein a plurality of lists of inquiries are provided to a plurality of authors and responses received from each of the plurality of authors are compiled for selecting the subset of the plurality of social profiles. An embodiment of a method further comprising the at least one author having a permission to edit the first file. An embodiment of a method for a server to identify social profiles having relevance to a first file comprising receiving by the server a plurality of social profiles wherein the plurality of social profiles were generated by a subject matter search generating by the server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of social profiles providing by the server the list of inquiries to an author of the first file wherein the first file is a one of the plurality of social profiles receiving by the server from the author at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting by the server a subset of the plurality of social profiles based on the at least one response storing by the server the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles for access if the first file is selected. An embodiment of a method further comprising providing by the server the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles to a user that selects the first file.

An embodiment of a system for identifying social profiles having relevance to a first file comprising a server configured to present on a first display a list of inquiries to an identified author of a first file wherein the list of inquiries is based on a plurality of social profiles the server configured to receive from the identified author at least one response to the list of inquiries the server configured to select a subset of the plurality of social profiles based on the at least one response a server configured to present on a second display the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles to a user that selects the first file.

An embodiment of a programmable storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions when executed by the machine to perform a method of identifying social profiles of a social network having relevance to a first file the method comprising identifying a plurality of social profiles within the social network wherein the plurality of social profiles each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of social profiles providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one author of the first file receiving from the at least one author at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of social profiles based on the at least one response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles for access if the first file is selected.

An embodiment of a method of identifying social profiles of a social network having relevance to a first file comprising identifying a plurality of social profiles within the social network wherein the plurality of social profiles each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a first list of inquiries based on the plurality of social profiles providing by the system server the first list of inquiries to at least one author of the first file receiving from the at least one author of the plurality of social profiles at least one first response to the first list of inquiries generating by the system server a second list of inquiries based on the plurality of social profiles providing by the system server the second list of inquiries to at least one second author of the plurality of social profiles receiving from the at least one second author of the plurality of social profiles at least one second response to the second list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of social profiles based on the at least one first response and the at least one second response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles for access if the first file is selected. An embodiment of a method wherein the information related to the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles comprises an opinion of the at least one author of either the first file or the plurality of social profiles. An embodiment of a method further comprises providing the opinion of the at least one author to a user that selects the first file.

As shown in for the described embodiments server system includes processor system and memory system among others. Server system consists of on one or more servers connected to the network. Server system can be a single unit distributed in various locations or virtualized. Processor system may include any one of some of any combination of or all of multiple parallel processors a single processor a system of processors having one or more central processors and or one or more specialized processors dedicated to specific tasks. Also processor system may include one or more Digital Signal Processors DSPs in addition to or in place of one or more Central Processing Units CPUs and or may have one or more digital signal processing programs that run on one or more CPU.

Memory system may include for example any one of some of any combination of or all of a long term storage system such as a hard drive a short term storage system such as random access memory a removable storage system such as a floppy drive or a removable drive and or flash memory. Memory system may include one or more machine readable mediums that may store a variety of different types of information. The term machine readable medium is used to refer to any medium capable carrying information that is readable by a machine. One example of a machine readable medium is a computer readable medium.

In an embodiment memory system stores code for search engine code to identify plurality of social profiles code to generate a list of inquiries questionnaire and code to select rank subset of plurality of social profiles . In an embodiment memory system stores code for search engine to search the social network for social profiles related to a first file and returns the result to server system . In the described embodiments the first file can reside in the social network or author user system or storage system for information related to selected ranked subset of social profiles or memory system or any other storage system. In an embodiment the search engine searches the abstract of the social profile. In another embodiment the search engine searches the entire social profile for keywords. The results from the search engine are ranked in order of relevancy. The relevancy may be the number of times the keyword appears in the social profile and the number of hyperlinks.

The keywords for searching related social profiles are supplied by the code to identify plurality of social profiles . The keywords may be all of or some of frequently used noun phrases the author of the first file the authors listed in the references cited in the first file words from the title publication date words related to subject matter. Once the server receives the list of social profiles related to the first file an inquiry is automatically generated by code to generate a list of inquiries and sent to one or more authors of social profiles. The list of inquiries is based on the search results. The inquiries include the relevancy of each of the social profiles listed as a related social profile to the first file the reason for the social profile being related to the first file. Code to select rank subset of plurality of social profiles selects a subset of the social profiles from search results stores information about the selected subset of social profiles and provides a hyperlink between the first file and the selected subset of social profiles. Selection of social profiles may also include ranking the social profiles based on the number of selection from the social profile authors. In an embodiment responses from different social profile authors can have different weight. Information related to the selected ranked subset of social profiles is stored. In an embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of social profiles is stored on a storage system for information related to selected ranked subset of social profiles . In another embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of social profiles is stored in memory system . In another embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of social profiles is stored in the social network . In an embodiment a hyperlink is created between the first file and the selected subset of social profiles. The hyperlink influences the ranking of search results by the search engine when the first file is involved.

Network is a network and or combination of networks of devices that communicate with one another within an enterprise or on the Internet. User system is a user device connected to the network . User system selects a social profile from the social network. The social profile is selected from a search result or from a listing of social profiles. Social network is a shared social network. All users can access the social network to read and in some cases contribute to the social profile system. Author user system is a user system in the network. The author user system has read and write access to social profiles in social network . An author of a social profile may be an author of the social profile co author of the social profile an expert in the subject matter or a team member. An embodiment includes a programmable storage device such as memory system readable by a machine such as processor system tangibly embodying a program of instructions when executed by the machine to perform a method of identifying one or more social profiles in a social network related to a first file. The method includes identifying a plurality of social profiles within the social network wherein the plurality of social profiles each have a relationship with the first file wherein the social network allows uploading and sharing of social profiles of users and wherein each social profile includes a representation of a user. The method further includes generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of social profiles providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one author of the first file receiving from the at least one author at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of social profiles based on the at least one response and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of social profiles for access if the first file is selected.

Although specific embodiments have been described and illustrated the described embodiments are not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated.

