---

title: Methods, systems, and computer program products for invoking trust-controlled services via application programming interfaces (APIs) respectively associated therewith
abstract: A trust evaluation may be obtained for a network element in a communication network. Based on this trust evaluation, one or more services may be invoked to address the risk that a potentially untrustworthy network element poses in the communication network. Application programming interfaces (APIs) may automate the invocation of trust-controlled services. An API for a trust-controlled service may be used to directly perform a function on one or more resources in the communication network or may be used to set up an ongoing function on one or more resources in the communication network that may continue until the API is used to terminate the function.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071604&OS=09071604&RS=09071604
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09071604
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130218
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 315 865 filed Dec. 22 2005 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to application programming interfaces APIs and more particularly to methods systems and computer program products for using APIs in communication networks.

In a communication network one or more network elements may be modified in an undesirable fashion which may result in these network elements being considered untrustworthy or perhaps even a security risk. Various services may be invoked or actions taken to address the untrustworthy element s so as to reduce the potential for harm resulting from such things as hacker activity software viruses and the like. Invocation of these various services however may involve human intervention in which the response times are measured in terms of minutes hours or even days during which time the events of interest may no longer be present.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a trust evaluation is obtained for a network element in the communication network. A service is invoked in response to the trust evaluation for the network element via an application programming interface API associated with the service.

In other embodiments of the present invention invoking the service comprises invoking the service via the API associated with the service to directly perform a function on at least one resource in the communication network.

In still other embodiments of the present invention invoking the service comprises invoking the service via the API associated with the service to set up an ongoing function on one or more resources in the communication network.

In still other embodiments of the present invention the service comprises a traffic mirroring service for the network element a traffic monitoring service for the network element a traffic examination service for traffic associated with the network element a traffic blocking service for traffic associated with the network element a traffic storage service for traffic associated with the network element a traffic logging service for traffic associated with the network element an endpoint resource selection service for traffic associated with the network element a midpoint selection service for traffic associated with the network element a tunneling service for traffic associated with the network element and or an application management service for the network element.

In still other embodiments of the present invention the service comprises the traffic mirroring service and the API associated with the traffic mirroring service comprises at least one of the following parameters mirroring permanency mirror full traffic mirror sample traffic traffic source IP address traffic port traffic protocol mirror output port and mirror output protocol.

In still other embodiments of the present invention the service comprises the traffic monitoring service traffic examination service and traffic blocking service for the network element and the API associated with the traffic monitoring service traffic examination service and traffic blocking service for the network element comprises at least one of the following parameters monitoring location type of monitoring examination depth of monitoring examination blocking status blocking traffic filter human interaction indication and adaptation information.

In still other embodiments of the present invention the service comprises the traffic storage service and the traffic logging service for traffic associated with the network element and the API associated with the traffic storage service and the traffic logging service for traffic associated with the network element comprises at least one of the following parameters store log full traffic store log traffic samples traffic source IP address traffic destination IP address traffic port traffic protocol storing logging location port associated with the location protocol associated with the location and encryption information.

In still other embodiments of the present invention the service comprises the endpoint resource selection service and the midpoint selection service for traffic associated with the network element and the API associated with the endpoint resource selection service and the midpoint selection service for traffic associated with the network element comprises at least one of the following parameters endpoint identification midpoint identification request for midpoint endpoint assign midpoint endpoint traffic source IP address traffic destination IP address traffic port traffic protocol midpoint endpoint port midpoint endpoint protocol midpoint endpoint node number and detection avoidance information.

In still other embodiments of the present invention the service comprises the tunneling service for traffic associated with the network element and the API associated with the tunneling service for traffic associated with the network element comprises at least one of the following parameters tunnel type security information endpoint identification monitoring method information and traffic filter information for the tunnel.

In still other embodiments of the present invention the service comprises the application management service for the network element and the API associated with the application management service for the network element comprises at least one of the following parameters application identity variable associated with the application value associated with the variable application query variable query and value query.

In still other embodiments of the present invention a result of invoking the service is verified and a determination is made whether to invoke an alert alarm based on the verification of the result.

In still other embodiments of the present invention the result is logged in an information repository.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments of the invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the invention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims. Like reference numbers signify like elements throughout the description of the figures.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless expressly stated otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes comprises including and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. Furthermore connected or coupled as used herein may include wirelessly connected or coupled. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

The present invention may be embodied as systems methods and or computer program products. Accordingly the present invention may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

The present invention is described herein with reference to flowchart and or block diagram illustrations of methods systems and computer program products in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations and combinations of blocks in the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations may be implemented by computer program instructions and or hardware operations. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer a special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer usable or computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer usable or computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions that implement the function specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Some embodiments of the present invention stem from a realization that a trust evaluation may be obtained for a network element in a communication network. Based on this trust evaluation one or more services may be invoked to address the risk that a potentially untrustworthy network element poses in the communication network. For example if the network element is determined to be untrustworthy then the communication network may be at risk for increased hacker activity virus infection traffic errors and the like. The process of invoking such services may involve human intervention in which response times are measured in minutes hours or even days. Unfortunately the event s of interest may no longer be present due to the potentially lengthy response time. Advantageously some embodiments of the present invention provide application programming interfaces APIs to automate the invocation of trust controlled services such as a traffic mirroring service for a network element a traffic monitoring service for a network element a traffic examination service for traffic associated with a network element a traffic blocking service for traffic associated with a network element a traffic storage service for traffic associated with a network element a traffic logging service for traffic associated with a network element an endpoint resource selection service for traffic associated with a network element a midpoint selection service for traffic associated with a network element a tunneling service for traffic associated with a network element and or an application management service for a network element. In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention an API for a trust controlled service may be used to directly perform a function on one or more resources in the communication network or may be used to set up an ongoing function on one or more resources in the communication network that may continue until the API is used to terminate the function. The APIs for the various trust controlled services have particular parameters that are associated therewith as described below. A requesting system or process may call an API with an appropriate set of parameters to invoke a trust controlled service to perform a desired function.

Referring now to an exemplary network architecture in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention comprises a verification system a resource manager a network application controller a requesting application network element s and a communication network that are connected as shown. The network may represent a global network such as the Internet and or other publicly accessible network. The network may also however represent a wide area network a local area network an Intranet and or other private network which may not accessible by the general public. Furthermore the network may represent a combination of public and private networks or a virtual private network VPN . The requesting application may be directly connected to the network application controller and verification system or may be connected via the network .

The verification system may be configured to determine whether a network element is trustable or not by for example determining a degree of trust for the network element . The verification system may be embodied as described in for example U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 880 249 entitled Verification of Consumer Equipment Connected to Packet Networks Based on Hashing Values hereinafter 249 application and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 886 169 entitled Controlling Quality of Service and Access in a Packet Network Based on Levels of Trust for Consumer Equipment hereinafter 169 application the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Referring to as described in the 249 application and 169 application the verification system can determine a level of trust for the network element by generating first and second hash values based on data that is associated with the network element at block . This data may represent any type of software and or firmware for example associated with the network element . If the hash values are not identical as determined by a comparison made at block then an evaluation may be made to determine whether the network element can be trusted and or what degree of trust may be assigned to the network element based on the apparent modification of the data as indicated by the non identical hash values. Hashing of the data may include repetitively hashing nested portions of the data to generate a plurality of hash values. Nested hashing may be used for example to identify what portion of the data has changed. This could be done by generating first and second hashes of a grouped or collected set of portion s of the data and if any change were noted via differences in the first and second hash values then subsequent checks of subsets of that set could be likewise checked to determine the specific subset containing the change. Further subsets of that subset could then be checked and so on until the specific portion containing the change is determined. In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention other techniques of determining trust of a network element may also be used and or additional inputs may be obtained that provide an indication of the trustworthiness of a network element.

Returning to as used herein the term network element includes any device that is configured to communicate traffic such as packet traffic using the communication network . Accordingly the network element may be but is not limited to a router a gateway a switching device a cable modem a digital subscriber line modem a public switched telephone network modem a wireless local area network modem a wireless wide area network modem a computer with a modem a mobile terminal such as personal data assistant and or cellular telephone with a modem. For network elements that communicate via the communication network through a wireless interface wireless protocols such as but not limited to the following may be used a cellular protocol e.g. General Packet Radio System GPRS Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE Global System for Mobile Communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA CDMA2000 and or Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS a wireless local area network protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 a Bluetooth protocol another RF communication protocol and or an optical communication protocol.

The requesting application may be configured to obtain trust and or degree of trust information for network elements from the verification system . In some embodiments trust relevant information from additional sources could alternately or additionally be considered. Such additional trust relevant sources may include but are not limited to various network management systems policy based control systems monitoring systems including intrusion detection protection systems security scanning systems third party security notification systems outsourced security consulting management services systems and or security relevant information aggregation systems.

The network application controller may be configured to expose APIs for one or more trust controlled services to the requesting application . The network application controller may authenticate valid requests communicate valid requests to the resource manager and provide a positive or negative acknowledgement to the requesting application .

The resource manager may be invoked to respond to for example the potential risk posed by the untrustworthiness of one or more network elements . In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention the resource manager may provide one or more of the following trust controlled services a traffic mirroring service for the network element a traffic monitoring service for the network element a traffic examination service for traffic associated with the network element a traffic blocking service for traffic associated with the network element a traffic storage service for traffic associated with the network element a traffic logging service for traffic associated with the network element an endpoint resource selection service for traffic associated with the network element a midpoint selection service for traffic associated with the network element a tunneling service for traffic associated with the network element and or an application management service for the network element.

Referring now to exemplary operations for invoking a trust controlled service via an API associated therewith begin at block where the network application controller receives an API request from a requesting application . The network application controller translates the API request as needed e.g. if the API request is in a different format than that used by the resource manager and authenticates the request as being valid and or from an authorized requesting application at block . The network application controller communicates the API request to the resource manager which configures the relevant resources network elements in the communication network to invoke the request trust controlled service at block . The trust controlled service may be invoked via the API request to directly perform a function on one or more resources in the communication network or the API request may be used to set up an ongoing function on one or more resources in the communication network that may continue until the API is used to terminate the function.

The network application controller may verify the results of the API request obtained from the resource manager at block and invoke any alerts alarms as necessary if the API request fails or generates unexpected undesired results. The network application controller may also log the results in a local and or centralized information repository at block .

Exemplary trust controlled services that may be invoked via the resource manager through APIs associated therewith respectively are described below in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

A traffic mirroring service for example may determine what aspects of the traffic associated with the network element e.g. headers particular sessions payloads etc. should be mirrored and to which entities the mirrored traffic should be directed e.g. local authorities FBI Homeland Security etc. based on the level of trust for the network element. An exemplary traffic mirroring service is described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 315 674 entitled METHODS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS FOR MIRRORING TRAFFIC ASSOCIATED WITH A NETWORK ELEMENT BASED ON WHETHER THE NETWORK ELEMENT CAN BE TRUSTED the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

An exemplary API for the traffic mirroring service may include but is not limited to parameters related to permanency of the mirroring i.e. for how long should the mirroring operations take place whether the full traffic or only traffic samples are mirrored and network information for the traffic to be mirrored such as source IP address port and or protocol information e.g. VLAN VPN ATM PVC frame relay and or MPLS label switched path. Similar parameters may be included for the mirror output such as port VLAN VPN ATM PVC frame relay and or MPLS label switched path protocol information. illustrates an exemplary API for the traffic mirroring service in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

Traffic monitoring examination and or blocking services for example may determine what aspects of traffic associated with a network element should be monitored examined and or blocked and in what manner. Exemplary traffic monitoring examination and or blocking services are described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 315 864 entitled METHODS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS FOR MONITORING EXAMINING AND OR BLOCKING TRAFFIC ASSOCIATED WITH A NETWORK ELEMENT BASED ON WHETHER THE NETWORK ELEMENT CAN BE TRUSTED the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

An exemplary API for the traffic monitoring examination and or blocking service may include but is not limited to parameters related to location site for performance of the traffic monitoring the type of monitoring examination performed e.g. what rules pattern match sets and or deviation from expected value sets are used the depth of the monitoring examination performed e.g. to what level of detail is the traffic monitored examined whether blocking is on or off allowed or not allowed is temporary or permanent and what filters are used for blocking traffic. Additional parameters may be included that are related to whether human interaction is on or off allowed or not allowed and what events trigger human interaction. Adaptation parameters may be used to identify particular types of adjustments e.g. adjustments to rules thresholds used and the like and the granularity in the changes that can be made e.g. units step sizes and the like. illustrates an exemplary API for the traffic monitoring examination and or blocking service in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

Traffic storing and or logging services for example may determine what aspects of the traffic associated with the network element e.g. headers particular sessions payloads etc. should be stored and or logged and the particular destinations where the traffic is to be stored and or logged e.g. destinations associated with local authorities FBI Homeland Security etc. based on the level of trust for the network element. Exemplary traffic storing and or logging services are described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 315 572 entitled METHODS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS FOR STORING AND OR LOGGING TRAFFIC ASSOCIATED WITH A NETWORK ELEMENT BASED ON WHETHER THE NETWORK ELEMENT CAN BE TRUSTED the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

An exemplary API for the traffic storing and or logging service may include but is not limited to parameters related to whether the full traffic or only traffic samples are stored logged network information on the traffic to be stored logged e.g. source IP address destination IP address port protocol and the like network information related to the storage logging location e.g. port labeled path information VPN information VLAN information and or destination IP address and or information related to data security such as whether encryption is on off encryption techniques used and or encryption key information. illustrates an exemplary API for the traffic storing and or logging service in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

Endpoint and or midpoint resource selection services for traffic associated with a network element for example may allow an endpoint and or a midpoint path resource to be selected for the traffic so as to force the traffic to a desired traffic endpoint and or through a desired traffic midpoint such that an untrustworthy network element may be avoided. Exemplary endpoint and or midpoint resource selection services are described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 315 618 entitled METHODS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS FOR SELECTING AN ENDPOINT AND OR A MIDPOINT PATH RESOURCE FOR TRAFFIC ASSOCIATED WITH A NETWORK ELEMENT BASED ON WHETHER THE NETWORK ELEMENT CAN BE TRUSTED the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

An exemplary API for the endpoint and or midpoint resource selection service may include but is not limited to parameters related to the particular resource selected i.e. endpoint midpoint or both the method for selecting the resource e.g. whether the resource is requested or is assigned as an endpoint midpoint resource network information associated with the traffic e.g. source IP address destination IP address port protocol and the like and or protocol information such as VLAN VPN ATM PVC frame relay and or MPLS label switched path information. Parameters may also be included related to the endpoint midpoint node such as port VLAN VPN ATM PVC frame relay and or MPLS label switched path information IP address and or node number. Parameters may be included related to detection avoidance i.e. whether re rerouting of traffic is transparent. Such parameters may include whether detection avoidance is on off latency delay used and or address spoofing information. illustrates an exemplary API for the endpoint and or midpoint resource selection service in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

A tunneling service for traffic associated with a network element for example may allow a secure tunnel to be configured to convey vulnerable communications through or past an untrustworthy network element. The tunnel may be configured with a degree of data protection that is proportional to the degree to which the network element cannot be trusted. In this way vulnerable data may be protected from undesirable potential hacking. An exemplary tunneling service is described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 316 429 entitled METHODS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS FOR CONFIGURING A COMMUNICATION TUNNEL FOR TRAFFIC BASED ON WHETHER A NETWORK ELEMENT CAN BE TRUSTED the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

An exemplary API for the tunneling service may include but is not limited to parameters related to the tunnel type e.g. IPsec SSL MPLS frame relay ATM VLAN security mechanisms used e.g. authentication encryption message signing message integrity protection security methods algorithms and key information information on tunnel endpoints e.g. identification of tunnel initiator and tunnel end tunnel monitoring information e.g. monitoring methods and monitoring frequency filter information for tunnel traffic e.g. source destination IP address ports protocol for traffic to block and to route through tunnel. illustrates an exemplary API for the tunneling service in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

An application management service for a network element for example may determine whether a network element in a communication path can be trusted and or to what degree the network element can be trusted. Based on this determination a separate determination can be made to identify potential network elements that may be vulnerable to attack or degradation of service for example due to the presence of one or more untrustworthy elements. An application may be identified on a vulnerable network element for which a command may be sent to reduce the vulnerability of the network element. An exemplary application management service is described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 315 917 entitled METHODS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS FOR MANAGING APPLICATION S ON A VULNERABLE NETWORK ELEMENT DUE TO AN UNTRUSTWORTHY NETWORK ELEMENT BY SENDING A COMMAND TO AN APPLICATION TO REDUCE THE VULNERABILITY OF THE NETWORK ELEMENT the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

An exemplary API for the application management service may include but is not limited to parameters related to the identity of the particular application to control e.g. firewall anti virus spy ware spam operating system email instant messaging peer to peer application shared application game a variable associated with the application and a value associated with the variable whether the value is an absolute value or a relative value and or a query parameter for a controllable application controllable value and or value associated with the controllable value. illustrates an exemplary API for the application management service in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

As discussed above the API request may be used to set up an ongoing function on one or more resources in the communication network that may continue until the API is used to terminate the function. In these embodiments the exemplary APIs described above for the various trust controlled services may further include parameters related to degree of trust and or trusted not trusted along with parameters related to completion of the set up and modifying the set up. Start and stop parameters may also be included.

Although illustrates an exemplary communication network it will be understood that the present invention is not limited to such configurations but is intended to encompass any configuration capable of carrying out the operations described herein.

The verification system resource manager network application controller and or requesting application may be embodied as one or more data processing systems that comprise for example input device s such as a keyboard or keypad a display and a memory that communicate with a processor. Such data processing system s may further include a storage system a speaker and an input output I O data port s that also communicate with the processor. The storage system may include removable and or fixed media such as floppy disks ZIP drives hard disks or the like as well as virtual storage such as a RAMDISK. The I O data port s may be used to transfer information between the data processing system s and another computer system or a network e.g. the Internet . These components may be conventional components such as those used in many conventional computing devices which may be configured to operate as described herein. Moreover the functionality of the verification system resource manager network application controller and or requesting application may be implemented as a single processor system a multi processor system or even a network of stand alone computer systems in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the verification system resource manager network application controller and or requesting application may be written in a high level programming language such as C or C for development convenience. In addition computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in other programming languages such as but not limited to interpreted languages. Some modules or routines may be written in assembly language or even micro code to enhance performance and or memory usage. It will be further appreciated that the functionality of any or all of the program modules may also be implemented using discrete hardware components one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or a programmed digital signal processor or microcontroller.

The flowcharts of illustrate the architecture functionality and operations of some embodiments of APIs for trust based services. In this regard each block represents a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in other implementations the function s noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in . For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending on the functionality involved.

Many variations and modifications can be made to the embodiments described herein without substantially departing from the principles of the present invention. All such variations and modifications are intended to be included herein within the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

