---

title: Topology aware provisioning in a software-defined networking environment
abstract: An example method for topology aware provisioning in a software-defined network environment is provided and includes receiving, at a provider edge device (PE), access network topology information associated with a customer edge device in a network environment, synthesizing the access network topology information and a local router information associated with the PE into a topology message, and publishing the topology message to a central controller in the network environment. The synthesizing can include aggregating the access network topology information and the local router information, modeling the aggregated information in a representation-independent format and encoding the representation-independent formatted aggregated information in standardized machine-parsable format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09124485&OS=09124485&RS=09124485
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09124485
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130819
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to topology aware provisioning in a software defined networking SDN environment.

As elastic cloud architectures and dynamic resource allocation evolve and as usage of mobile computer operating systems and virtual machines grows Software Defined Networking SDN has gained increasing relevance in networking systems. SDN is an approach to building computer networking equipment and software that separates and abstracts the control plane and data plane of networking systems. SDN decouples the control plane that makes decisions about where traffic is sent from the underlying data plane that forwards traffic to the selected destination. SDN allows network administrators to manage network services through abstraction of lower level functionality into virtual services through a central controller. Such a control layer allows network operators to specify network services without coupling the specifications with network interfaces enabling network nodes to move between interfaces without changing identities or violating specifications.

An example method for topology aware provisioning in a software defined network environment is provided and includes receiving at a provider edge device PE access network topology information associated with a customer edge device CE in a network environment synthesizing the access network topology information and a local router information associated with the PE into a topology message and publishing the topology message to a central controller in the network environment. The synthesizing can include aggregating the access network topology information and the local router information modeling the aggregated information in a representation independent format and encoding the representation independent formatted aggregated information in standardized machine parsable format.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating an embodiment of communication system for facilitating network assisted configuration and programming of gateways in a network environment. Communication system includes a network connecting a customer premises equipment CPE with a customer edge device CE which connects to an access node AN that communicates with a provider edge device PE . PE may be provisioned with a collection and publication agent configured to send one or more topology message to a central SDN controller .

According to various embodiments PE may receive access network topology information associated with CE . The access network topology information may include CE info which comprises information about CE such as device name Internet Protocol IP address Media Access Control MAC address certificate etc. The access network topology information may include access topology information for example plug in wall remote identifier ID R ID access line characteristics access port circuit ID C ID access node AN ID access aggregation circuit virtual local area network VLAN stack AC ID PE port port type Port Info and edge router ID PE ID among other parameters. PE may also retrieve local router information comprising hardware inventory such as line card type and version software firmware revision transceiver type e.g. small form factor pluggable SFP optical transceiver type etc. PE may aggregate the access topology information and local router information and synthesize topology message to controller . Controller may take various suitable network provisioning actions based on the information in topology message .

As used herein the term customer premises equipment includes any device e.g. computer printer fax machine smart phone laptop etc. logging into e.g. communicating with connecting to accessing etc. network using a customer s access credentials e.g. subscription credentials user name password etc. . The term access node includes a Layer 2 switch usually located at a service provider s central office or street cabinet that terminates access loop connections from subscribers. Examples of the access node include Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer DSLAM in digital subscriber line DSL technology. The access node facilitates connection to an access network. The access network is a part of a telecommunications network that connects customers to their immediate Internet service provider ISP . The access network may include a wide variety of networking technologies for example copper wires DSL cable mode Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN Ethernet Frame Relay Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM synchronous optical networking SONET etc. The access node aggregates the various and disparate network technologies into a single backhaul network technology e.g. to facilitate connection to the core network which is the central part of a telecommunication network that provides various services to customers who are connected by the access network .

The backhaul traffic terminates on the provider edge devices. The term provider edge device includes a Layer 3 router connected to the ISP s network infrastructure at which a link to the customer site is terminated. The terms Layer 2 and Layer 3 as used herein refer to the data link layer and network layer respectively in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model ISO IEC 7498 1 of communication networks. The PE can encapsulate IP traffic from the access node in Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS tunnels for transmission over the ISP s MPLS backbone in the core network. The PE includes equipment capable of a broad range of routing protocols such as Border Gateway Protocol BGP Open Shortest Path First OSPF and MPLS.

The term customer edge device includes a device that interfaces between a wide area network e.g. access network and local area network e.g. subscriber s LAN IP environment. Also sometimes called the residential gateway it may route e.g. router functionality or bridge e.g. switch functionality traffic depending on its configuration and specifications. In some embodiments CPE and CE or the functionalities of CPE and CE may be or may execute in the same physical device. The term SDN Controller or controller includes a control application in SDN architecture that manages flow control to enable intelligent networking.

For purposes of illustrating the techniques of communication system it is important to understand the communications that may be traversing the system shown in . The following foundational information may be viewed as a basis from which the present disclosure may be properly explained. Such information is offered earnestly for purposes of explanation only and accordingly should not be construed in any way to limit the broad scope of the present disclosure and its potential applications.

Service providers today generally provision their access and core networks separately and have different inventory systems for these networks which are often inaccurate. When provisioning services service providers generally configure the access network connectivity and the IP service configuration separately and then co ordinate the two activities to tie them together for example the access team may tell the router team which port VLAN the connectivity to a user site can be delivered over and then the router team may apply the service configuration to the specified port VLAN . In addition it is a well known practice in service provider networks to perform re homing of network elements e.g. access nodes which can be prone to human errors and can represent a challenge to network inventory bookkeeping e.g. re homing access nodes is a known source of network inventory inconsistencies .

To illustrate with an example consider provisioning a 50 mbps E line from an endpoint A e.g. CE to another endpoint Z in a geographically disparate location through various networks such as a customer premises networks access networks and a core network each network including one or more network elements. As used herein the term network element is meant to encompass computers network appliances servers routers switches gateways bridges load balancers firewalls processors modules or any other suitable device component element or object operable to exchange information in a network environment. Moreover the network elements may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective exchange of data or information.

The service provider s network may identify remote endpoints A and Z with their remote IDs. Each endpoint A and Z which represents respective CEs may be connected to their corresponding metro networks using fiber optics or other suitable communication medium. The metro networks may include numerous L2 switches interconnected in a ring topology and connected to the core network via respective PE routers. PE routers at two ends of the core network may be connected over a MPLS cloud.

To provision the 50 mbps line from endpoint A to endpoint Z requires knowledge of the various parameters e.g. identities capabilities connectivity etc. of network elements connecting the two endpoints over the disparate networks. Because each of the networks may be part of separate domains e.g. controlled by different entities information about network elements network connectivity or access topology which can include information external to each domain may be difficult to obtain in an accurate and timely manner. For example configuration within each of the networks may change e.g. due to re homing access nodes adding or removing nodes etc. . The service provider controlling one of the domains may store network topology information inventory off line in a suitable database however such configuration changes external to the service provider s domain may not be updated appropriately and may lead to network provisioning errors or inventory inconsistencies.

In many networks Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS protocol may be used to provide centralized Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA management for computers to connect and use a network service. RADIUS serves at least three functions to authenticate users or devices before granting them access to a network to authorize those users or devices for certain network services and to account for usage of those services. Typically a user e.g. CE sends a request to a Remote Access Server RAS to gain access to a particular network resource e.g. service node in a service provider s network using access credentials e.g. username password security certificate etc. . The access credentials are passed to the RAS via a link layer protocol e.g. Point to Point Protocol PPP . In turn the RAS sends a RADIUS Access Request message to a RADIUS server requesting authorization to grant access via the RADIUS protocol. The request from the RAS to the RADIUS server includes the access credentials provided by the user. Additionally the request may contain other information which the RAS knows about the user such as its network address and information such as Remote ID and Circuit ID regarding the user s physical point of attachment to the RAS.

The RADIUS server checks the accuracy and authenticity of the access credentials and other information using various authentication schemes. Access privileges and other such information may be stored locally on the RADIUS server or may be looked up in an external source such as LDAP or Active Directory. The RADIUS server returns one of three responses to the RAS 1 Access Reject e.g. user is unconditionally denied access to all requested network resources for example because of failure to provide proper proof of identification 2 Access Challenge e.g. requesting additional information from the user such as a secondary password PIN token or card etc. or 3 Access Accept e.g. the user is granted access .

However the RADIUS protocol has a few drawbacks. First RADIUS requires that the user s equipment support the specific layer 2 protocols e.g. PPPoE EAP DHCP etc. . Second RADIUS based models produce ephemeral configurations. For example if the RAS re boots the RADIUS server would have to be re queried to bring the service back up for the user. Due to the request response model recovery time may also be high. Third RADIUS is not suitable for expressing complex and idiosyncratic policies. The RADIUS protocol performance can be a bottleneck in some network scenarios. Moreover there is no precedent for pervasive business services based in RADIUS. Further RADIUS based models assume obsolete dial in behavior whereas service providers are increasingly moving towards a flat rate static model closer to that of a traditional leased line business service.

Communication system is configured to address these issues and others in offering a system and method for topology aware provisioning in a SDN environment. Embodiments of communication system can enable service providers to link access and IP provisioning and to use the network as a master source of inventory reducing effort to provision new services and reducing outages and re work caused by multiple inaccurate inventories.

According to various embodiments PE may receive access network topology information associated with CE . Some access network topology information e.g. CE info may be learnt from CE some other access network topology information e.g. access topology information such as remote ID access line characteristics circuit ID may be learnt from the network links between CE and AN yet other access network topology information e.g. access topology information such as access node ID and VLAN stack may be learnt from AN and some other access network topology information e.g. access topology information such as PE port info and PE ID may be learnt from PE itself.

Collection and publication agent coupled to PE may synthesize the CE information access network topology information and local router information associated with PE into topology message and publish e.g. communicate send forward topology message to controller . The synthesizing can include aggregating the access network topology information and the local router information modeling the aggregated information in a representation independent format and encoding the representation independent formatted aggregated information in standardized machine parsable format.

In one example embodiment the access network topology information may be received according to an AN protocol e.g. Access Node Control Protocol ANCP from AN . The AN protocol may run out of band to user traffic and identify the Circuit ID the Remote ID of CE and a VLAN stack among other access network topology parameters over which user traffic can be communicated with AN .

In another example embodiment the access network topology information may be received according to a CPE protocol e.g. Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP from CPE or CE if CE has the requisite capabilities . For example the CPE protocol may carry CE info . The CPE protocol may run in band with user traffic mapped to a port and a VLAN at PE . CPE may identify itself to PE and CPE may be trusted by PE to do so. In some embodiments the CPE protocol may be intercepted and modified by AN to include addition of at least the Circuit ID and the Remote ID. An example of the modified CPE protocol is Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP .

In yet another example embodiment the access network topology information may be received at PE according to a CPE user datagram based protocol in a First Sign Of Life FSoL packet. PE may be configured to listen for FSoL packets. PE may be pre configured with sufficient information to identify CE in some embodiments. In other embodiments PE may previously learn identifying information about CE from AN or other network elements for example through ANCP DHCP etc. For example ANCP may be used to detect initial connection of a site to the network and FSoL may be used to identify various service instances carried over that connection using different VLAN IDs. In yet another example embodiment the access network topology information may be received at PE from a port up event on PE . For example CE may be directly connected to PE .

After controller has learned the access network topology from topology message controller may match the topology data with previously configured or learned information about a service instance to be provisioned. For example a service may be identified in controller using the Remote ID. When controller learns that a customer has attached to network at a point corresponding to the Remote ID controller may then provision the service at PE identified in topology message . If PE learns that a customer connection to AN has gone down PE may publish the information to controller along with the service ID if known. Controller may then take appropriate action e.g. choose to de provision the service . If a change in topology between CE and PE is learnt at PE such change can be appropriately published to controller in topology message . In some cases e.g. Remote ID to Circuit ID mapping changing PE may not learn of the change e.g. as Remote ID and Circuit ID are generally statically configured at AN . If the service is still provisioned against the old access network topology then it may first be de provisioned before it can be re provisioned against the updated access network topology.

Turning to the infrastructure of communication system the network topology can include any number of servers service nodes virtual machines switches including distributed virtual switches routers and other nodes inter connected to form a large and complex network. A node may be any electronic device client server peer service application or other object capable of sending receiving or forwarding information over communications channels in a network. Elements of may be coupled to one another through one or more interfaces employing any suitable connection wired or wireless which provides a viable pathway for electronic communications.

Additionally any one or more of these elements may be combined or removed from the architecture based on particular configuration needs. Communication system may include a configuration capable of TCP IP communications for the electronic transmission or reception of data packets in a network. Communication system may also operate in conjunction with a User Datagram Protocol Internet Protocol UDP IP or any other suitable protocol where appropriate and based on particular needs. In addition gateways routers switches and any other suitable nodes physical or virtual may be used to facilitate electronic communication between various nodes in the network.

Note that the numerical and letter designations assigned to the elements of do not connote any type of hierarchy the designations are arbitrary and have been used for purposes of teaching only. Such designations should not be construed in any way to limit their capabilities functionalities or applications in the potential environments that may benefit from the features of communication system . It should be understood that communication system shown in is simplified for ease of illustration. Communication system can include any number of servers service nodes virtual machines gateways and other network elements within the broad scope of the embodiments.

The example network environment may be configured over a physical infrastructure that may include one or more networks and further may be configured in any form including but not limited to LANs wireless local area networks WLANs VLANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs virtual private networks VPNs Intranet Extranet any other appropriate architecture or system or any combination thereof that facilitates communications in a network. In some embodiments a communication link may represent any electronic link supporting a LAN environment such as for example cable Ethernet wireless technologies e.g. IEEE 802.11x ATM fiber optics etc. or any suitable combination thereof. In other embodiments communication links may represent a remote connection through any appropriate medium e.g. digital subscriber lines DSL telephone lines T1 lines T3 lines wireless satellite fiber optics cable Ethernet etc. or any combination thereof and or through any additional networks such as a wide area networks e.g. the Internet .

In some embodiments collection and publication agent can include an application executing in at or with PE . In other embodiments collection and publication agent can include an application executing on another network element in communication with PE and controller . In some embodiments collection and publication agent may be implemented in a separate stand alone box that can be plugged into or otherwise connected to PE and controller . In some embodiments collection and publication agent may be implemented in hardware in software or in a combination of hardware and software.

In some embodiments controller can be configured according to SDN architecture. In the SDN architecture the control and data planes are decoupled network intelligence and state are logically centralized in controller and the underlying network infrastructure is abstracted from the applications. An example implementation of controller includes Cisco ONE controller. Controller may be virtualized and centralized in network enabling it to manage and control substantially all flows in network . Proprietary and or open source software may be executed in network to enable controller to perform its operations.

Note that the access network topology information examples e.g. CE access topology information and local router information e.g. hardware inventory presented in the FIGURE are merely examples and are not intended to be limitations. Virtually any number and type of network and device related information may be included in topology message sufficient to enable controller to make provisioning decisions within the broad scope of the embodiments.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of an embodiment of communication system . Collection and publication agent can include an access topology discovery module an access topology data model a local PE discovery module an access topology publishing module a processor and a memory element . Access network topology information may be received at access topology discovery module. Access network topology information may include merely as examples and not as limitations CPE protocol based data CPE user datagram based data access node based data and PE port based data among other possible data . CPE protocol based data may be communicated over CPE protocols e.g. DHCP CPE user datagram based data may include FSoL packets access node based data may be communicated over ANCP protocols and PE port based data may be received on appropriate PE ports.

Access topology data model includes mechanisms e.g. data modeling language such as YANG for representing access network topology information in a suitable representation independent format e.g. that decouples the link between data representation and patterns that can be applied to an object thus providing greater flexibility on creating deconstructing objects with relational independence clients of an abstract type behave uniformly across all relational interpretations of that type and thus cannot depend in any way on how the type is represented and standardized machine parsable format e.g. capable of being read by a computer . For example YANG is a data modeling language that can be used to model configuration data and state data of network elements. YANG can be also used to define the format of event notifications emitted by network elements. YANG can represent data structures in an XML tree format.

Local PE discovery module may receive local router information from PE . Local router information may include information related to the hardware software and firmware configurations of PE . Access topology publishing module may synthesize access network topology information and local router information into topology message . Synthesizing may include aggregating access network topology information and local router information formatting the aggregated information into representation independent format and encoding in standardized machine parsable format. For example CE may be connected to PE on port VLAN over AN and Remote ID rem Circuit ID ckt. Topology message may include the relevant information including rmt ckt AN port VLAN and PE associated with CE sufficient to permit controller to take provisioning decisions appropriately.

Processor and memory element may be used for the operations described herein. In some of example embodiments one or more memory elements e.g. memory element can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store instructions e.g. software logic code etc. in non transitory computer readable media such that the instructions are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example processors e.g. processor could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing.

In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions flash memory optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs magnetic or optical cards other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

The devices in communication system may further keep information in any suitable type of non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM field programmable gate array FPGA erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. The information being tracked sent received or stored in communication system could be provided in any database register table cache queue control list or storage structure based on particular needs and implementations all of which could be referenced in any suitable timeframe. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. 

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of an embodiment of communication system . Network includes various nodes A Z . For example nodes A and Z may represent two endpoint CEs located in one or more customer network . Nodes B and Y may represent L2 switches connecting customer network to one or more access network . L2 switch nodes B and Y may be coupled in a ring topology in access network with other L2 switch nodes C D and X W and connected to PE router nodes E and V that may communicate over a core network via routers F and U . According to an embodiment of communication system PE router nodes E and V may communicate with a central controller in core network to provision a 50 mbps line or any other appropriate service between nodes A and Z .

To provide the appropriate services to nodes A and Z knowledge of the nodes interconnecting the two endpoints may be needed. If the network topology and or connectivity between nodes A and Z changes service provisioning may need to change appropriately. One of the big challenges network access providers have is that topology and or architecture of access networks may tend to move around a lot e.g. subscribers may be re homed and end up connecting to different edge networks . PE router nodes E and V may publish access network topology information to controller each time a subscriber connects or reconnects to network . At PE nodes E and V access network topology information may be learnt in many suitable ways. Such access network topology information may be bundled up e.g. aggregated and published to controller in suitable topology message .

Turning to is a simplified sequence diagram illustrating example details and potential operations of an embodiment of communication system associated with call flow user sign up and provisioning. Communication system can include in addition to CPE CE AN PE and Controller a DHCP server and a portal . At controller may push configurations on PE using appropriate Yang data model XML or other suitable mechanisms. At PE may be initially configured with an IP address access control lists ACLs DHCP relay hyper text transfer protocol HTTP redirect etc. At a DHCP discover message may be sent by CE and intercepted by AN . At AN may relay the DHCP discover message enhancing it with CE s point of attachment using DHCP option . Option provides information about the network location of a DHCP client e.g. CE in the form of a Remote ID and Circuit ID and the DHCP server uses this information to assign IP addresses or other parameters for the client. . AN sends the modified DHCP discover message at .

At a DHCP relay agent at PE may receive the DHCP discover message relayed by AN . At the DHCP discover message may be forwarded to DHCP server . At collection and publication agent at PE may snoop e.g. inspect review etc. the DHCP discover message from AN and synthesize topology message . At PE may publish topology message to controller . Topology message may include by way of examples and not limitations PE ID CE MAC Remote ID Circuit ID AN ID depending on how the AN relays DHCP VLAN Stack and PE Interface e.g. Interface ID Speed Duplex Card Type Card Rev Card ID .

At DHCP server may assign an IP address to the DHCP client with a short lease for use during sign up. At the DHCP offer may be sent to CE by DHCP server . At a DHCP acknowledgement ACK message may be returned by CE to DHCP server . At collection and publication agent at PE may snoop the DHCP ACK message and synthesize another topology message . At the another topology message may be sent to controller . The another topology message may include the leased IP address CE IP in addition to other parameters. This IP address may subsequently be used by the controller to correlate another topology message to a new user logging into network .

Turning to is a simplified sequence diagram illustrating example details and potential operations of an embodiment of communication system associated with call flow provisioning for VLAN User Network Interface UNI . Communication system can include CPE CE AN PE and Controller . At controller may push configurations on PE using appropriate Yang data model XML or other suitable mechanisms. At PE may be initially configured with ANCP parameters for example specifying each ANCP neighboring access node to be monitored adjacency timer restart timer etc. At notification of an ANCP port up at AN may be received at PE . At collection and publication agent at PE may consume ANCP message and synthesize appropriate topology message . At PE may publish topology message to controller . Topology message may include by way of examples and not limitations PE ID Remote ID Circuit ID AN ID VLAN Stack AN Interface Parameters e.g. learned from ANCP such as DSL training rates and PE Interface parameters e.g. Interface ID Speed Duplex Card Type Card Rev Card ID .

Turning to is a simplified sequence diagram illustrating example details and potential operations of another embodiment of communication system associated with call flow provisioning for VLAN UNI. Communication system can include CPE CE AN PE and Controller . At controller may push configurations on PE using appropriate Yang data model XML or other suitable mechanisms. At PE may be initially configured to receive first sign of life FSoL packets on appropriately configured e.g. CID RID ports. Dynamic Ethernet sessions are transient in nature that is they support start and end events. The start event is marked by the receipt of a frame of interest which is called the FSoL. The end event is triggered by the expiry of a session idle timer. The FSoL trigger causes a chain of events that starts with subscriber authentication and authorization followed by service and features determination according to policy rules leading to dynamic session provisioning and feature or service enablement. 

At a frame trigger VLAN or MAC e.g. frame of interest may be received from CE at PE . At collection and publication agent at PE may consume the FSoL frame and synthesize appropriate topology message . At PE may publish topology message to controller . Topology message may include by way of examples and not limitations PE ID Remote ID Circuit ID CE MAC VLAN Stack and PE Interface parameters e.g. Interface ID Speed Duplex Card Type Card Rev Card ID .

Turning to is a simplified sequence diagram illustrating example details and potential operations of another embodiment of communication system associated with call flow provisioning for bundle VLAN UNI for example when services are delivered at PE on double tagged VLAN with a customer tag C TAG on CE . Communication system can include CPE CE AN PE and Controller . At controller may push configurations on PE using appropriate Yang data model XML or other suitable mechanisms. At PE may be initially configured for receiving ANCP packets. At PE may receive notification from AN that an ANCP port is up. At collection and publication agent at PE may consume the ANCP message and synthesize appropriate topology message . At PE may publish topology message to controller . At controller may push configuration for receiving FSoL frames to PE . At PE may receive a C TAG Frame Trigger VLAN or MAC . At collection and publication agent at PE may consume the FSoL frame and synthesize another appropriate topology message . At PE may publish topology message to controller .

Turning to is a simplified sequence diagram illustrating example details and potential operations of another embodiment of communication system associated with call flow provisioning for port UNI. PE may offer services on a physical port to which CE may be directly connected. Communication system can include CPE CE PE and Controller . At controller may push configurations on PE using appropriate Yang data model XML or other suitable mechanisms. At PE may be initially configured for port up publishing and CID RID may be configured on appropriate ports. At a port connected to CE may come up e.g. turn on light up port ready to receive data etc. . At collection and publication agent at PE may receive notification of the port up event e.g. through appropriate sensors circuit modules etc. and synthesize appropriate topology message including CID RID etc. At PE may publish topology message to controller . Topology message may include by way of examples and not limitations PE ID Remote ID Circuit ID and PE Interface parameters e.g. Interface ID Speed Duplex Card Type Card Rev Card ID .

Turning to is a simplified sequence diagram illustrating example details and potential operations of another embodiment of communication system associated with call flow provisioning for PWE UNI. PE may provide services on an MPLS tagged interface. Communication system can include CPE CE AN PE and Controller . At controller may push configurations on PE using appropriate Yang data model XML or other suitable mechanisms. At PE may be initially configured for Forwarding Equivalence Class FEC FEC is a group of packets which are forwarded in the same manner over the same path and with the same forwarding treatment . At a FEC pseudowire PWE message may be sent by AN to PE . At collection and publication agent at PE may consume the FEC message and synthesize appropriate topology message . At PE may publish topology message to controller . Topology message may include by way of examples and not limitations PE ID Remote ID Circuit ID AN ID SAI TAI PE Interface list and PE Interface parameters e.g. Interface ID Speed Duplex Card Type Card Rev Card ID .

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating other example publishing agent modules according to an embodiment of communication system . SDN controller may include JSON REST API a SAL e.g. for performing model driven transformation network data model and a Netconf YANG adaptor . Netconf YANG adaptor may push configuration settings to a corresponding Netconf YANG agent in collection and publication agent and may receive topology message from BGP LS module . An XMPP API may also be available in ONE controller .

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of data collection according to an embodiment of communication system . Flow statistics associated with a service ID e.g. bytes in bytes out QoS queue statistics etc. may be received at collection and publication agent . Collection and publication agent may publish the statistics and other data to a specific URL in binary or ASCII formats to a OSS stats database in controller in some embodiments.

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations that may be associated with collection and publication agent according to an embodiment of communication system . At collection and publication agent at PE may receive access network topology information associated with CE . At collection and publication agent at PE may receive local router information associated with PE . At collection and publication agent at PE may aggregate access network topology information and local router information. At collection and publication agent at PE may format the aggregated information into topology message . Operations and may comprise synthesizing topology message in some embodiments. At collection and publication agent at PE may publish topology message to controller .

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations that may be associated with controller according to an embodiment of communication system . At collection and publication agent at PE may receive topology message with access network topology information associated with a specific CE . At controller may determine connectivity between CE and a requested service instance provisioned at PE . At controller may appropriately provision network resources to implement connectivity between CE and the service instance.

Note that in this Specification references to various features e.g. elements structures modules components steps operations characteristics etc. included in one embodiment example embodiment an embodiment another embodiment some embodiments various embodiments other embodiments alternative embodiment and the like are intended to mean that any such features are included in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure but may or may not necessarily be combined in the same embodiments. Note also that an application as used herein this Specification can be inclusive of any executable file comprising instructions that can be understood and processed on a computer and may further include library modules loaded during execution object files system files hardware logic software logic or any other executable modules.

In example implementations at least some portions of the activities outlined herein may be implemented in software in for example collection and publication agent . In some embodiments one or more of these features may be implemented in hardware provided external to these elements or consolidated in any appropriate manner to achieve the intended functionality. The various network elements may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate in order to achieve the operations as outlined herein. In still other embodiments these elements may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

Furthermore collection and publication agent described and shown herein and or their associated structures may also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment. Additionally some of the processors and memory elements associated with the various nodes may be removed or otherwise consolidated such that a single processor and a single memory element are responsible for certain activities. In a general sense the arrangements depicted in the FIGURES may be more logical in their representations whereas a physical architecture may include various permutations combinations and or hybrids of these elements. It is imperative to note that countless possible design configurations can be used to achieve the operational objectives outlined here. Accordingly the associated infrastructure has a myriad of substitute arrangements design choices device possibilities hardware configurations software implementations equipment options etc.

It is also important to note that the operations and steps described with reference to the preceding FIGURES illustrate only some of the possible scenarios that may be executed by or within the system. Some of these operations may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the discussed concepts. In addition the timing of these operations may be altered considerably and still achieve the results taught in this disclosure. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by the system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the discussed concepts.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges involving certain network access and protocols communication system may be applicable to other exchanges or routing protocols. Moreover although communication system has been illustrated with reference to particular elements and operations that facilitate the communication process these elements and operations may be replaced by any suitable architecture or process that achieves the intended functionality of communication system .

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

