---

title: Protective clothing ensemble with two-stage evaporative cooling
abstract: A hazardous materials protective garment may use a two-stage evaporative cooling process to ease heat strain on the wearer of the garment. The garment may include an impermeable inner layer and a wicking outer layer. One or more reservoirs may be disposed interior to the inner layer for collecting condensed and/or unevaporated sweat. One or more pumps may move the sweat to the exterior of the impermeable layer for distribution in the wicking layer and evaporation from the garment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08978169&OS=08978169&RS=08978169
owner: 
number: 08978169
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130301
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 481 292 filed on May 25 2012 which is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to International Application Number PCT US11 30478 filed on Mar. 30 2011 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 319 070 filed on Mar. 30 2010 all of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

Warriors first responders and industrial workers are examples of personnel who may perform physically demanding tasks with high rates of metabolic energy expenditures and metabolic heat production. These personnel may be equipped with protective clothing for example chemical biological radiological nuclear and explosive protective clothing combat clothing or other individual protective clothing ensembles. Normal mechanisms of dissipating excess metabolic heat for example through evaporative cooling in warm and hot environments may be compromised by the insulation and resistance to water vapor permeation of known protective ensembles. Known protective clothing may increase metabolic heat production due to the metabolic cost of carrying and using the ensemble and compromise metabolic heat loss by impeding evaporative cooling and dry heat dissipation through conduction convection and radiative heat loss. Reducing the thermal burden imposed by protective ensembles has long been and continues to be an important need for designers manufacturers and users of protective clothing.

Active cooling systems for protective ensembles are known. Active microclimate cooling systems may be thermoelectric systems or compressor based systems with a coolant that is circulated in tight fitting vests or perhaps blower systems that pass filtered outside air over the body and exhaust the air outside the protective suit. Compressor based or thermoelectric systems may be power hungry may be expensive and may be heavy in weight. Air blower systems may be lighter in weight and more comfortable than compressor based systems but may be noisy may have relatively high heat signatures i.e. may be detected by infrared sensors may require intake filtering of the air and may have variable performance depending on air inlet temperature and humidity. Air blower systems may be impractical in a chemically biologically and or radiologically contaminated environment where filtering a large volume of inlet air may require a large filter capacity.

A long felt but unsolved need has existed and continues to exist for lighter weight more energy efficient methods and apparatus to help reduce the thermal load of personnel equipped with protective clothing ensembles.

One aspect of the invention is a protective garment for an animate being. The protective garment may include an impermeable inner layer. A reservoir may be disposed interior to the inner layer for collecting sweat from the animate being. The garment may include a pump for moving the sweat from the reservoir to a location external to the inner layer. The animate being may be a human.

The sweat collected in the reservoir may be unevaporated liquid sweat and or liquid sweat that has exuded or been excreted from the animate being evaporated and condensed on the inner layer. The pump may be disposed interior to the inner layer.

The garment may include a distribution system located external to the inner layer for distributing the sweat on an exterior of the garment. Inlet tubing may have one end in fluid communication with the reservoir and another end connected to an inlet of the pump. Outlet tubing may have one end connected to an outlet of the pump and another end that passes through the inner layer. The outlet tubing may be operatively connected to the distribution system.

The garment may include an external reservoir disposed exterior to the inner layer and fluidly connected to the internal reservoir. The external reservoir may supply water to the internal reservoir for distribution inside or outside of the inner layer.

The distribution system may include wicking material and or at least one fluid conduit. The distribution system may include at least one fluid conduit in fluid communication with the outlet tubing and wicking material adjacent to at least one fluid conduit. The wicking material may be an external layer of the garment.

Another aspect of the invention is a method. The method may include providing an animate being with a protective garment and collecting sweat from the animate being in a reservoir. The method may include pumping the sweat to an exterior of the garment. The collected sweat may include sweat that has condensed on an inner layer of the garment. The collected sweat may include unevaporated sweat.

The method may include after pumping distributing the sweat on an exterior of the garment. The method may include after distributing evaporating the sweat from the exterior of the garment.

Water from a reservoir that is external to the inner layer of the garment may also be collected in the reservoir that collects sweat. One or both of water and sweat may be pumped to the exterior of the garment or distributed between the inner layer and the animate being.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A two stage evaporative cooling process and protective overgarment may reduce overheating and heat illness experienced by those who wear protective garments such as hazardous material suits. The cooling process and overgarment may be suitable for animate beings in particular humans. A first stage of evaporative cooling may include evaporation of sweat from the skin of a human or evaporating sweat from an undergarment that is worn next to the skin. The undergarment may have multiple layers. The sweat vapor may condense on an interior surface of an inner impermeable layer of the loose fitting protective garment.

As used herein impermeable layer means a layer of a garment that is at least impermeable to water vapor and water. Preferably the impermeable layer may also be impermeable to a range of chemical biological and other types of hazards. Different chemical biological or other types of hazards may require the selection of varying materials for the impermeable layer. Examples of materials for impermeable layers of protective garments are well known in the field of hazardous materials protection. Such materials may include PTFE polytetrafluoroethylene e.g. TEFLON Dupont Tychem TK impermeable Dupont Nomex Gore CHEMPACK Ultra Barrier or other impermeable materials such as cotton or nylon fabric coated with polyvinyl chloride PVC polyurethane PU or rubber.

A second stage of evaporative cooling may occur on the exterior surface of the protective garment exterior of the impermeable layer. The second stage of evaporative cooling may help dissipate the heat of condensation generated on the interior surface of the impermeable layer. The second stage of evaporative cooling may include pumping condensed sweat from inside the garment to the exterior of the garment and then distributing the condensed sweat on the exterior surface of the garment for re evaporation. The second stage of evaporative cooling may include pumping unevaporated sweat from inside the garment to the exterior of the garment and then distributing the unevaporated sweat on the exterior surface of the garment for evaporation. In some embodiments the second stage may include pumping water from inside the garment to the exterior of the garment and then distributing the water on the exterior surface of the garment for re evaporation.

In the embodiment of garment includes an integral head covering . Head covering may include a transparent viewing portion . Respiration may be variously accomplished via a backpack re breather a self contained breathing apparatus or a tethered system where air is supplied via a hose not shown as in the U.S. Army s Self Contained Toxic Environment Protective Outfit STEPO . Excess pressure may be released via one or more one way exhaust vents . Or in lieu of integral head covering a gas mask with or without other head covering may be used. In some embodiments water in expired breath may be condensed captured and re evaporated.

Garment may be an overgarment that is the outermost component of a clothing ensemble. As such garment may be sized to be generally loose fitting on the wearer of the garment for example to allow freedom of movement or to provide ample space for undergarments. Undergarments are not required with garment but may be used. For example a T shirt and shorts may be worn under garment . For military use an Army Combat Uniform ACU worn with undershirt and underpants may be worn with or without armor under garment . Other types of garments may be worn under garment . In general garment may not be pre tensioned against the wearer in contrast to elasticized tight fitting garments. But in some embodiments of garment selected pre tensioning may be used for protective purposes for example elastic sleeve cuffs leg cuffs neck band etc.

Garment may include an impermeable inner layer having an inner surface contiguous with air gap . Garment may include a moisture wicking outer layer disposed opposite impermeable inner layer . Garment may have an exterior surface . Wicking outer layer may be a wicking fabric such as polyester for example. Wicking fabrics may be non absorbent. Wicking fabrics may include a system of fibers that work like capillaries to carry water. Wicking fabrics may have surface texture for example puckers in the fabric may increase the surface area and enhance evaporation. Wicking outer layer may also be a surface treatment for example a liquid or spray that may be applied to an outer surface of impermeable inner layer . The surface treatment may be a surfactant e.g. Woolite that decreases water surface tension and promotes wetting of fabric.

In some embodiments of the invention a semi impermeable layer may be substituted for impermeable layer . The semi impermeable layer may be at least impermeable to liquid water but semi impermeable to water vapor such as a GORE TEX type of material.

Human may excrete or exude liquid sweat from skin . If no undergarment is present liquid sweat may evaporate directly from skin pass through air space as sweat vapor and condense on inner surface as condensed sweat . If undergarment is present liquid sweat may pass through undergarment evaporate from undergarment pass through air space as sweat vapor and condense on inner surface as re condensed liquid sweat . In either case skin may be directly or indirectly cooled by evaporation of liquid sweat .

As will be described in more detail below condensed sweat may be collected and transported to wicking outer layer . In addition or alternatively liquid sweat that may not have evaporated may be collected and transported through impermeable inner layer to wicking outer layer . On or in wicking outer layer the transported sweat may evaporate from external surface of garment . Evaporation of transported sweat from external surface may cool wicking outer layer thereby indirectly cooling impermeable inner layer air space and human . It should be noted that in some embodiments of garment wicking outer layer may be included only in selected areas of garment . For example wicking outer layer may be included on areas of garment that are near to areas of human which exhibit the greatest increases in sweat rate when the core temperature of human increases. Such areas of higher sweat rates in human may be for example the head torso arms and upper legs.

The intermittent force of the heel of human on rear insole and reservoir may pump collected sweat from reservoir through an outlet tubing and ultimately through impermeable inner layer to wicking outer layer . A check valve or one way valve may be disposed in outlet tubing to prevent backflow into reservoir . A quick disconnect coupling may be included in outlet tubing particularly if boot is a removable type boot.

Movement of elbow joint may cause pump to transport accumulated sweat from reservoir via inlet tubing to outlet tubing and ultimately through impermeable inner layer to wicking outer layer . Check valves may be disposed in inlet tubing and outlet tubing . A quick disconnect coupling may be included in outlet tubing to facilitate set up of garment and to provide an option to use or not use pump .

Breathing movements of human may cause pump to transport sweat from reservoir through opening and inlet tubing and then to outlet tubing and ultimately through impermeable inner layer to wicking outer layer . Check valves may be disposed in inlet tubing and outlet tubing . A quick disconnect coupling may be included in outlet tubing to facilitate set up of garment and to provide an option to use or not use pump . In lieu of pump one or more downspouts in the form of tubing internal to torso portion of garment may carry contents of reservoir to bottom area of boot or to reservoir in boot .

As discussed above pumps and may be powered by the natural movements of human that may occur while performing a task. Natural body movements are not movements of human that are consciously and specifically directed to only actuating a pump. One or more of pumps may be used in various combination and numbers. For example a multiplicity of pumps may be arrayed circumferentially around elbows knees waist shoulder underarm hip and other areas such that the action of bending at these locations may result in bladder compression and fluid output and straightening at these locations may result in bladder re expansion and fluid intake. Other pumps such as battery powered pumps or hand pumps may be used. The sweat may be pumped by the pump or pumps through the outlet tubing and through impermeable inner layer to wicking outer layer . From wicking outer layer the sweat may be distributed on external surface of garment and evaporated to thereby cool garment .

Outlet tubing from each pump for example outlet tubing and may be joined together before piercing impermeable layer . Or each outlet tubing may independently pierce impermeable layer . is a schematic flow diagram of a garment having two pumps two pumps and one pump . Outlet tubing and from each of the respective pumps may join an outlet header or manifold . Header may pierce or pass through impermeable layer at an opening . Opening may be sealed around header . Check valves may be used to prevent backflow. is a schematic flow diagram of a garment having two pumps two pumps and one pump . Outlet tubing and from each of the respective pumps may independently pass through impermeable layer at multiple openings . Openings may be sealed around each outlet tubing. Check valves may be used to prevent backflow. Outlet tubing from the pumps and or outlet header may be fastened to inner surface of impermeable layer . are exemplary only. The number of pumps used may be one or more.

At opening or openings sweat flowing in the outlet tubing or outlet header may flow into a distribution system for distributing the sweat on or in the outer wicking layer . shows a distribution system that may include a plurality of tubes with holes or perforations. The holes may allow the sweat to flow into wicking layer . The cross section of the tubing that forms distribution system may be circular semi circular or some other cross section.

In outlet header may exit layer at opening shown in dashed line in the neck area and may fluidly communicate with tubing disposed around the bottom of head covering . A vertical tubing may lead to a tubing that may be arranged circularly or circumferentially partially or completely around the top of head covering . A check valve not shown may be included in vertical tubing to prevent backflow. A tubing may extend from tubing down sleeve of garment . A tubing may extend from tubing down torso portion of garment to a waist tubing . Waist tubing may be arranged circumferentially partially or completely around garment . Vertical leg tubing may extend from waist tubing to a circumferential thigh tubing . Of course tubing may be arranged in many different ways on the exterior of garment . In addition garment may include plumbing and valves configured to distribute harvested sweat to hotter surfaces where sweat evaporation may occur most effectively. Toxic environments of microbes viruses and tiny insects etc. may require check valves with enhanced sealing features. Such check valves may require higher opening pressures. Higher opening pressures may be supplied by for example a piston or pump driven by a battery operated electric motor or solenoid.

Wicking layer may receive liquid sweat that may exit openings in the network of tubing that forms distribution system . Wicking layer may be present wherever impermeable layer is present or may be selectively used. In wicking layer is shown with Xs and may be present in areas near tubing 

In some embodiments garment may include one or more external reservoirs . In the locations and sizes of external reservoirs on garment are exemplary only. External reservoir s may be of varying capacity. An example of a capacity for external reservoir is 2 liters. External reservoir may be made of any material capable of holding water for example plastic or rubber. Reservoir may be flexible or rigid. Reservoir may be attached to the outer surface of garment using for example straps or hooks. Reservoir may contain water and may include a fill opening for adding water therein. External reservoir may be disposed exterior to impermeable layer . External reservoir may be fluidly connected to one or more reservoirs located interior to layer for example internal reservoirs or . is a schematic fluid flow diagram of garment showing external reservoir connected by tubing to for example interior reservoir . Flow of water from reservoir may be controlled by for example a valve .

Thus one or more of liquid sweat condensed sweat and water from reservoir may be pumped from reservoirs internal to layer to outlet tubing. As an example in the contents which may be one or more of liquid sweat condensed sweat and water of interior reservoir may be pumped through outlet tubing . In addition to pumping the contents of reservoirs internal to layer to external distribution system some or all of the contents of the internal reservoirs may be redistributed in space or on undergarment for re evaporation which may enhance cooling. Distribution in space or on undergarment may be helpful for example when garment is initially donned when the user is under hydrated or when the user is not sweating adequately. Inadequate sweating may result from for example medications taken by the user of garment to resist the neurotoxic effects of chemical agents.

Redistribution in space or on undergarment may be accomplished by providing one or more fluid exit ports in one or more outlet tubes or headers such as outlet tubes and header . Fluid exit ports may include mini or micro nozzles for spraying one or more of liquid sweat condensed sweat and water onto undergarment and or in space . Ports may be sized such that a portion of the flow through the outlet tubes or headers is redistributed on skin and a portion of the flow is transported to external distribution system . Alternatively separate outlet tubings may be provided from the internal reservoirs for each of 1 flow to the external distribution system and 2 flow to be redistributed on undergarment and or in space .

The maximum perspiration rate for a human may be about 1.5 liters per hour. The size and capacity of the reservoirs pumps bladders inlet tubing outlet tubing outlet headers and distribution system tubing may be determined for example from the maximum perspiration rate and the number and location of pumps used.

Two stage evaporative cooling garment may be more efficient under certain temperature conditions. For example garment may be particularly effective for cooling when the ambient external to garment wet bulb temperature is less than the temperature of impermeable barrier and the temperature of impermeable barrier is less than the temperature of skin . Even when temperature and humidity conditions may be less than optimal for functioning of garment garment may nevertheless provide important advantages. For example removal of sweat condensate and or unevaporated sweat from the interior of garment reduces humidity in air space thereby enhancing first stage evaporation from skin or undergarment . Also condensed sweat and or unevaporated sweat that may accumulate inside a garment may cause skin of human to become very soft and perishable. Removal of the sweat helps reduce damage to skin .

Thermal physiological modeling of two stage evaporative cooling indicates that physiological heat strain may be reduced. A B and A B are graphs of core temperature A A and physiological strain index PSI B B versus time with and without two stage evaporative cooling. PSI reflects thermal work strain i.e. increases in both body temperature and heart rate . The graphs were created from a computer simulation of a human walking while clad in two different ensembles and breathing filtered outside air. One ensemble is a MOPP 4 Mission Oriented Protective Posture Level 4 suit without two stage evaporative cooling. A second ensemble labeled as ACP2E is a two stage evaporative cooling garment with a standard U.S. Army Combat Uniform ACU as undergarment . In B and B a physiological strain index PSI of corresponds to maximum permissible core temperature T and heart rate HR . In practice a maximum PSI of 8 is more desirable.

Tests were conducted with a stationary sweating thermal manikin wearing a commercially available chemical protection suit Blauer Multi threat Ensemble Blauer Manufacturing Company Boston Mass. 02215 . The chemical protection suit was modified for water distribution on its outer surface. The modification included a thin wicking fabric bib and related tubing to distribute water over chest abdomen and groin areas. The wicking bib system provided an evaporating water surface over about 27 of the suit area. In a climate chamber environment of 95 F. and 40 RH the wicking bib system increased cooling by 119 watts compared to cooling without the bib. With 80 of the suit wet the potential cooling increase is estimated to be about 340 watts. The manikin tests further demonstrate the cooling capability of the two stage evaporative cooling apparatus and method.

The simulation results of B and B and the manikin test results indicate that at least for the test conditions the ACP2E garment enables unlimited safe exposure times compared to safe exposure times of about 180 minutes 130 minutes and 110 minutes for the MOPP 4 ensemble.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

