---

title: Multi-directional content capture on mobile devices
abstract: Systems and methods for facilitating content capturing on a mobile device are provided. The current position of a mobile device is identified during a content capturing preparation stage. The current position of the mobile device can correspond to a first position or a second position. The first position is a preferred position for capturing content as compared to the second position. When the current position of the mobile device corresponds to the second position, a prompt can be provided on the mobile device to instruct a user of the mobile device to move the mobile device to the first position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407824&OS=09407824&RS=09407824
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09407824
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 721 428 filed Nov. 1 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to capturing content and more particularly for facilitating multi directional content capture on a mobile device.

Recent advancements in technology have led to consolidating many different functions into a single mobile device. Users no longer need to carry a different device for performing different functions. To give a few examples mobile devices can perform functions similar to those of phones cameras calculators calendars maps contact lists and alarm clocks etc. However mobile devices can often record videos that have suboptimal characteristics when played back on a television. Mobile devices are conducive to being held vertically and thus users often record video while holding mobile devices vertically. Televisions however typically produce the best results when playing videos that were recorded by devices in a horizontal position. Additionally although conventional mobile devices can offer a wide range of functionality actually performing the functions can sometimes be time intensive and can involve unnecessary operations.

In some implementations a computer implemented method for facilitating multi directional content capture on a mobile device is presented. The method includes identifying a current position of a mobile device during a content capturing preparation stage. The method also includes determining whether the current position of the mobile device corresponds to a first position or a second position. The first position is a preferred position for capturing content as compared to the second position. The method further includes providing by the mobile device a prompt to instruct a user of the mobile device to move the mobile device to the first position when the current position of the mobile device corresponds to the second position. The method includes refraining from providing the prompt when the current position of the mobile device corresponds to the first position.

In another implementation a method includes automatically initiating the capturing of content. The content is at least one of audio video or an image. In a further implementation a method includes causing content capturing capability on the mobile device to be blocked when the current position of the mobile device corresponds to the second position.

In yet another implementation the method includes identifying a change in the current position of the mobile device from the second position to the first position and causing a content capturing capability on the mobile device to be unblocked.

In aspects the change in the current position of the mobile device is a rotation from the second position to the first position.

In a further implementation when identifying the change in the current position of the mobile device the method includes identifying a reference point for the current position of the mobile device using a content capture component of the mobile device monitoring the reference point using the content capture component of the mobile device and identifying a deviation from the reference point.

In another implementation when identifying the change in the current position of the mobile device from the second position to the first position the method includes detecting a rate of change in the current position of the mobile device and when the rate of change is above a threshold the method includes modifying a predefined content capturing property.

In yet a further implementation the method further includes modifying an aspect ratio of the content when the content is captured by the mobile device in the second position.

In some implementations an apparatus includes means for identifying a current position of a mobile device during a content capturing preparation stage. The apparatus also includes means for determining whether the current position of the mobile device corresponds to a first position or a second position. The first position is a preferred position for capturing content as compared to the second position. The apparatus further includes means for providing by the mobile device a prompt to instruct a user of the mobile device to move the mobile device to the first position when the current position of the mobile device corresponds to the second position. The apparatus also includes means for refraining from providing the prompt when the current position of the mobile device corresponds to the first position.

In another implementation the apparatus includes means for automatically initiating the capturing of content. In a further implementation the apparatus includes means for causing content capturing capability on the mobile device to be blocked when the current position of the mobile device corresponds to the second position.

In yet another implementation the apparatus includes means for identifying a change in the current position of the mobile device from the second position to the first position and causing a content capturing capability on the mobile device to be unblocked.

In a further implementation when identifying the change in the current position of the mobile device the apparatus includes means for identifying a reference point for the current position of the mobile device using a content capture component of the mobile device means for monitoring the reference point using the content capture component of the mobile device and means for identifying a deviation from the reference point.

In another implementation when identifying the change in the current position of the mobile device from the second position to the first position the apparatus includes means for detecting a rate of change in the current position of the mobile device and when the rate of change is above a threshold the apparatus includes means for modifying a predefined content capturing property.

In yet a further implementation the apparatus includes means for modifying an aspect ratio of the content when the content is captured by the mobile device in the second position.

In additional implementations computing devices for performing the operations described above are also implemented. Further in some implementations a computer readable storage medium is provided to store instructions causing a processing device to perform the operations described above.

Described herein is a mechanism for facilitating multi directional content capture on a mobile device. Many people use their mobile devices to capture content e.g. record video record audio take pictures . Since mobile devices are typically operated in a portrait orientation i.e. with the shorter sides of a rectangular device being at the top and bottom many people record video or take pictures on their mobile devices while holding the device in portrait orientation. Common display devices e.g. TVs computer monitors etc. however have landscape screens meaning the longer sides of the rectangular device are at the top and bottom. When a portrait video is played on a landscape screen black bars with no video content occupy substantial amounts of the screen space to the left and right of the vertical portrait video content. This is sometimes referred to as vertical video syndrome. 

Further initiating the content capturing process on a conventional mobile device can be slow and can take many operations. An example sequence of operations can include 1 turn on the mobile device 2 find a content capturing application 3 open the content capturing application 4 navigate one or more menus to find the record mode 5 adjust a user grip on device 6 find the begin record button and 7 begin recording.

Aspects of the present disclosure address the above deficiencies of conventional mobile devices by prompting users to change a current position of a mobile device when the current position is not a preferred position for content capturing. The content can be for example audio video images etc. In some implementation a mobile device identifies a current position of the mobile device during a content capturing preparation stage of the mobile device. The mobile device determines whether the current position of the mobile device corresponds to a preferred position for capturing content. When the current position of the mobile device does not correspond to the preferred position the mobile device provides a prompt to instruct a user of the mobile device to move the mobile device to the preferred position. When the current position of the mobile device corresponds to the preferred position the mobile device refrains from providing the prompt. As a result content capturing capability and functionality of mobile devices are improved.

In the following description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

One or more position sensors can detect spatial and motion characteristics of the mobile device . Spatial characteristics that the position sensor can detect include those of the position of the mobile device . In one implementation the position sensor detects the orientation of the device by detecting an angle from a horizontal plane. For example the position sensor can detect when the mobile device is in landscape or portrait orientation. Motion characteristics that the position sensor can detect include movement speed and acceleration of the mobile device as it changes position or orientation. In one implementation the position sensor can detect linear velocities and accelerations e.g. translational movement and angular velocities and accelerations e.g. rotational movement . The position sensor may include an accelerometer and or a gyroscope that detects the spatial and motion characteristics of the mobile device . Gyroscopes use principals of angular momentum to detect changes in orientation e.g. changes in pitch roll and twist . Accelerometers measure accelerations along one or more axes e.g. translational changes . The gyroscope and accelerometer may be separate sensors or may be combined into a single sensor . The position sensor in one implementation is a micro electromechanical systems MEMS sensor.

In one implementation the position sensor outputs fully processed signals to the device position manager . The signals can correspond to spatial and motion characteristics of the mobile device . For example the position sensor may output a distance a detected not detected signal etc. using a single line interface or a multi line interface. Similarly position sensor may output an acceleration value e.g. in Gs . In another implementation the position sensor outputs for example positional data e.g. an orientation of the mobile device and or motion data e.g. a change or a rate of change in position or orientation of the mobile device to the device position manager without first processing the data. Similarly position sensor may output for example voltage values that can be interpreted by the device position manger as positional or acceleration values.

The device position manager can use the spatial characteristics of the mobile device to cause the mobile device to perform or omit different functions. Device position manager can use spatial data or signals received from position sensor to control or block operations of the mobile device e.g. operations of the content capture component .

The device position manager can interpret data or signals received from the position sensor to identify a position e.g. orientation of the mobile device . Using the received signals the device position manager can determine whether the mobile device is in the preferred position for capturing content. When the mobile device is in a first position e.g. a preferred position for capturing content as compared to a second position the device position manager can permit the content capture component to capture content e.g. record a video take a picture record audio . When the mobile device is in the second position the device position manager can block the content capture component from capturing content. For example content capturing capability on the mobile device can be blocked when the mobile device is in portrait orientation and enabled when the mobile device is in landscape orientation.

In one implementation depending on the detected position of the mobile device the device position manager can provide a prompt to instruct a user of the mobile device to move the mobile device to another position. For example when in the mobile device is in portrait orientation the prompt can instruct the user to move or rotate the mobile device to landscape orientation.

In addition the device position manager can also identify motion characteristics of the mobile device e.g. movement from one position to another linear and angular acceleration using the motion data or signals received from the position sensor . The device position manager can use the motion characteristics of the mobile device to cause the mobile device to perform different functions such as enabling or blocking features or components of the mobile device . For example when the mobile device is rotated from portrait to landscape orientation the device position manager can automatically initiate content capturing such as by a camera microphone and the like. This can speed up and simplify content capturing initialization operation to be performed by a user to two operations open an application for content capturing on the mobile device and rotate the mobile device from portrait to landscape orientation to begin recording content. Additional examples of functions of the device position manager are described in conjunction with .

The device position manager may include sensor circuitry e.g. sensor device drivers that enables the device position manager to interpret signals received from the position sensor . The device position manager may use the sensor circuitry to process and or interpret the received data. If data is received from multiple position sensors processing the data may include averaging the data identifying a maximum from the data or otherwise combining the data from the multiple sensors.

Content capture component can be responsible for capturing content e.g. video image audio and can be for example an image sensor camera video camera microphone or a combination thereof.

In one implementation the content capture component e.g. an image sensor camera of the mobile device can be used to detect spatial and motion characteristics of the mobile device and a separate position sensor may not be needed. The image sensor or camera can identify a reference point e.g. a horizontal plane for a current position of the mobile device and monitor the reference point for any deviations. When the image sensor or camera detects a deviation it can notify the device position manager .

GUI can be an interface that permits a user to interact with a mobile device and can be provided by a mobile application. A user can view information presented by GUI and can provide input via GUI . GUI can display text images or icons and can include one or more user interface tools. As the term is used herein a user interface tool refers to any single graphical instrument or combination of graphics controls that permit a user to input information to a computer system. Common conventional user interface tools include visual output for one or more buttons text boxes scroll bars pictures spin dials list boxes search boxes select options etc.

GUI can be an interface for content capturing activities on a mobile device such as for capturing video. A user can interact with a record button for example to initiate a content capture process. GUI can also provide a prompt to the user of the mobile device based on position or orientation of the mobile device. The prompt for example can instruct the user to move the mobile device from one position to a preferred position at the time of a content capture event when the user is less likely to ignore or forget the prompt. The prompt may be via a visual means an audible means or a combination of the above. In one implementation when the mobile device is moved from a non preferred position to a preferred position the GUI can refrain from providing the prompt. For example when the mobile device is in the portrait orientation GUI can provide a prompt to instruct the user to move the mobile device in any direction that results in the mobile device being substantially in a landscape orientation e.g. a position in which the mobile device does not deviate from landscape orientation by more than a threshold value such as ten percent . When the mobile device is moved to the preferred position GUI can refrain from providing the prompt or can stop providing the prompt if the prompt was provided before. Examples of additional aspects of GUI are described in further detail below in conjunction with .

Position detector can determine the current position and subsequent changes in the position or orientation of the mobile device . To determine the current position of the mobile device position detector can receive signals that correspond to spatial and motion characteristics of the mobile device e.g. a position an orientation a change in position a velocity a rotation an acceleration etc. from one or more position sensors . In one implementation position detector receives a fully processed signal from position sensor . In another implementation position detector receives an unprocessed or a partially processed signal from position sensor and then processes the signal to determine a position or orientation of the mobile device . For example position detector can determine whether the mobile device is in a portrait orientation or in a landscape orientation. Position detector can also determine the acceleration of the mobile device that occurs during a change from one position to another. The position detector can determine the current position of the mobile device at any time including at the time the user opens a content capture application on the mobile device .

Once the position or orientation of the mobile device is determined the position detector can inform other components of the device position manager of positional characteristics of the mobile device . For example position detector can inform GUI of the position of the mobile device such that GUI can display a prompt to the user based on the position. In another example position detector informs the capturing component interface of the position of the mobile device .

Capturing component interface can control content capture component of the mobile device . To control the content capture component capturing component interface can use information about the position or motion of the mobile device received from the position detector . If the mobile device is in a first position e.g. landscape orientation capturing component interface can signal to the content capture component to start capturing content e.g. record a video take a picture record audio . Similarly when the mobile device is in a second position e.g. portrait orientation capturing component interface can cause content capturing capability on the mobile device to be blocked. When position detector identifies a change in position of the mobile device from the second position to the first e.g. from portrait to landscape orientation capturing component interface can cause content capturing capability on the mobile device to be unblocked. In one implementation if the device is in landscape orientation at the time a video capture application is opened the device automatically initiates a content capturing process.

In one implementation if GUI receives an indication from the position detector that the mobile device has changed positions while the mobile device is capturing content then the GUI can provide the prompt to the user. The prompt can instruct a user of the mobile device to move the mobile device to another position. Further if capturing component interface receives an indication from the position detector that the mobile device has changed positions away from the preferred position while the mobile device is capturing content then the capturing component interface can block the mobile device from further capturing content.

In one implementation device position manager includes a content editor . The content editor can modify content e.g. video image audio according to the position or orientation of the mobile device as determined by orientation detector . Content captured while the device is in one position can be modified such that the modification gives the appearance that the content was captured in a different position. For example when landscape is the desired content capture orientation the content editor can modify video capture when the mobile device is in portrait orientation. In this example the content editor can modify an aspect ratio of the video where the aspect ratio is a proportional relationship between the height and width of the video. When capturing video by a device that is in portrait orientation the native video input can be cropped to a desired aspect ratio. Desired aspect ratios include for example 4 3 16 9 1.85 1 2.39 1 etc.

The device position manager can be communicably connected to a data store that stores orientation rules . The data store can be a persistent storage that is capable of storing data and can be part of the mobile device . A persistent storage unit can be a local storage unit or a remote storage unit. Persistent storage units can be a magnetic storage unit optical storage unit solid state storage unit electronic storage units main memory or similar storage unit. Persistent storage units can be a monolithic device or a distributed set of devices. A set as used herein refers to any positive whole number of items. Orientation rules define what actions should take place in response to current characteristics of the mobile device or content being captured by the mobile device. For example orientation rules may specify what operations e.g. allow or block content capturing provide a prompt stop providing a prompt etc. should be performed in response to a certain position of the mobile device or in response to a specific movement of the mobile device . Another example operation may be modification of predefined content capturing properties when certain device positions or movements are identified. The predefined content capturing property can be for example camera capturing state turning on off a flash enabling disabling a content feature e.g. red eye correction image or video filter etc. starting stopping an audio recording etc. For example the orientation rules may specify that upon detecting a rate of change in the current position of the mobile device exceeding a specified threshold the capturing component interface should modify a predefined content capturing property of the camera from a non capturing state to a capturing state.

Other orientation rules permit different operations depending on the specific detected motion. These orientation rules can also define different operations that depend on the speed or acceleration of detected movements of the mobile device. A fast rotation for example can correspond to one action while a slow rotation can correspond to another. In another example when rotated counter clockwise the mobile device records video. When rotated the mobile device can record video turns on a flash. The motion can also activate devices or modules connected via a wired or wireless connection such as a cable a Wi Fi SMS Bluetooth infrared and the like.

Orientation rules can also require certain operations based on either the initial or final position of the device after a rotation. For example when a device is rotated a total of ninety degrees regardless of the start and end position the mobile device should perform a specified operation. In another example when the final position of the mobile device is ninety degrees from the horizontal position the mobile device should perform a first operation and when the final position of the mobile device is at two hundred seventy degrees from the horizontal position the mobile device should perform a second operation etc. Alternatively the operation to be performed should depend on the direction of the movement. For example when the mobile device is rotated clockwise the mobile device should begin recording video and when the mobile device is rotated counter clockwise the mobile device should stop recording video.

Orientation rules can also be used to control content playback. Detected movement can correspond to different playback operations. For example orientation rules can specify whether to start playing video or audio when a rotation is detected. Similarly orientation rule can specify whether to stop fast forward rewind or pause content playback when a rotation is detected.

In one implementation GUI A includes a record button that a user toggles to record and stop capturing content. The record button can visually indicate when recording is available or not available to the user depending on the position of the mobile device. For example the record button can be greyed out when the mobile device is in a portrait orientation to indicate to the user that recording is not available in the current mobile device position. GUI A can include a setting menu button that when activated by the user causes the GUI A to present a settings menu as illustrated in .

At block processing logic identifies a current position of a mobile device during a content capturing preparation stage. The content capturing preparation stage can refer to a content capturing application e.g. video or audio recorder camera being open but not capturing content. At block processing logic determines whether the current position of the mobile device corresponds to a first position. The first position is a preferred position for capturing content as compared to a second position and in one implementation the first position can be a landscape orientation. If the mobile device is in the first position at block processing logic can initiate capturing of content e.g. automatically or at the request of a user and can refrain from providing a prompt to the user of the mobile device.

If at block the mobile device is not in the first position processing logic at block can provide a prompt to instruct a user of the mobile device to move the mobile device to the first position. In one implementation after or simultaneous to providing the prompt processing logic can initiate capturing of content at block . Alternatively in addition to providing the prompt processing logic causes content capturing capability on the mobile device to be blocked. At block processing logic determines if the position of the mobile device has changed. If not method ends. If processing logic identifies a change e.g. a rotation in the current position of the mobile device from a second position to the first position processing logic causes content capturing capability on the mobile device to be unblocked. Processing logic can then initiate capturing of content at block .

In one implementation when processing logic identifies the change in the current position of the mobile device at block it identifies a reference point for the current position of the mobile device using a content capture component of the mobile device. Processing logic monitors the reference point using the image sensor of the mobile device and identifies a deviation from the reference point.

The example computing system includes a processing device a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processing device may be complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computer RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. Processing device can be configured to execute the device position manager for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

Computing system may further include a network interface device . Computing system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

Additionally the machine may include an image sensing module an image capture device a hardware media encoder decoder and or a graphics processor GPU . The image sensing module can include an image sensor. An image sensor is a device that converts an optical image or images into an electronic signal. The image sensor can be a camera CMOS CCD. The image sensor can capture still images or motion pictures video .

Data storage device may include a machine readable storage medium or more specifically a computer readable storage medium having one or more sets of instructions e.g. device position manager embodying any one or more of the methodologies of functions described herein. The device position manager may also reside completely or at least partially within main memory and or within processing device during execution thereof by computing system main memory and processing device also constituting machine readable storage media.

Machine readable storage medium may also be used to store the device queue manager logic persistently. While machine readable storage medium is shown in an example implementation to be a single medium the term machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instruction for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term machine readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

The components and other features described herein can be implemented as discrete hardware components or integrated in the functionality of hardware components such as ASICs FPGAs DSPs or similar devices. In addition these components can be implemented as firmware or functional circuitry within hardware devices. Further these components can be implemented in any combination of hardware devices and software components.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as capturing performing causing encoding storing receiving assigning generating presenting transmitting obtaining displaying or the like may refer to the actions and processes of a machine a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the machine s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the machine memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

For simplicity of explanation the methods have been depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methods could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methods disclosed in this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture e.g. a computer readable storage medium to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or storage media.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other implementations will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Although the operations of the methods herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another implementation instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

Reference throughout this disclosure to one implementation or an implementation means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the implementation is included in at least one implementation. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one implementation or in an implementation in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more implementations.

Implementations also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory devices including universal serial bus USB storage devices e.g. USB key devices or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each of which may be coupled to a computing system bus.

The methods and systems described herein can be used in a wide variety of implementations including as part of a mobile application app and can be part of photo or video related software including a mobile operating system. Apps installed on the mobile device can access the systems and methods via one or more application programming interface API .

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computing system or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent from the description above. In addition the present disclosure is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the disclosure as described herein.

As used herein media content media item digital media and a digital media item can include an electronic file that can be executed or loaded using software firmware or hardware configured to present the digital media item to a user. A digital media item may include a single work or a collection of works. For example a digital media item may include a video clip or an entire video. In another example a digital media item may include a single song or an entire album. In another example a digital media item may include a single book or an anthology. Additionally a single digital media item may include for example an audio portion e.g. a music album and a written word portion e.g. an electronic publication .

