---

title: Mechanism for facilitating dynamic and segment-based monitoring of cellular network performance in an on-demand services environment
abstract: In accordance with embodiments, there are provided mechanisms and methods for facilitating dynamic and segment-based monitoring of cellular network performance. In one embodiment and by way of example, a method includes dividing a cellular network path of a cellular network into a plurality of network segments, and monitoring performance of the cellular network at a first network segment of the plurality of network segments. The first network segment is associated with a first segment point includes a first computing device. The method may further includes generating first metrics based on first monitoring data relating to the first network segment, and forwarding the first metrics to a second segment point coupled with the first segment point over the first network segment. The second segment point includes a second computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09154985&OS=09154985&RS=09154985
owner: salesforce.com, inc.
number: 09154985
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130118
---
This application is a Continuation Application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 345 496 entitled Mechanism for Facilitating Dynamic and Segment Based Monitoring of Cellular Network Performance In An On Demand Services Environment by Richard Schilling filed Jan. 6 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 528 859 entitled Systems and Methods for Cellular Network Performance Tagging by Richard Schilling filed Aug. 30 2011 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference and priority is claimed thereof.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

One or more implementations relate generally to data management and more specifically to a mechanism for facilitating dynamic and segment based monitoring of cellular network performance.

Collecting useful information in a cellular network environment is a well known challenge. Conventional techniques for collecting such information are known to overload the cellular network and are regarded as complex expensive and inefficient.

The subject matter discussed in the background section should not be assumed to be prior art merely as a result of its mention in the background section. Similarly a problem mentioned in the background section or associated with the subject matter of the background section should not be assumed to have been previously recognized in the prior art. The subject matter in the background section merely represents different approaches which in and of themselves may also be inventions.

In accordance with embodiments there are provided mechanisms and methods for facilitating dynamic and segment based monitoring of cellular network performance. In one embodiment and by way of example a method includes dividing a cellular network path of a cellular network into a plurality of network segments and monitoring performance of the cellular network at a first network segment of the plurality of network segments. The first network segment is associated with a first segment point includes a first computing device. The method may further includes generating first metrics based on first monitoring data relating to the first network segment and forwarding the first metrics to a second segment point coupled with the first segment point over the first network segment. The second segment point includes a second computing device. In one embodiment the mechanisms and methods are provided through an on demand services environment.

While the present invention is described with reference to an embodiment in which techniques for facilitating management of data are implemented in a system having an application server providing a front end for an on demand database service capable of supporting multiple tenants the present invention is not limited to multi tenant databases nor deployment on application servers. Embodiments may be practiced using other networking and or database architectures without departing from the scope of the embodiments claimed.

Any of the above embodiments may be used alone or together with one another in any combination. Inventions encompassed within this specification may also include embodiments that are only partially mentioned or alluded to or are not mentioned or alluded to at all in this brief summary or in the abstract. Although various embodiments of the invention may have been motivated by various deficiencies with the prior art which may be discussed or alluded to in one or more places in the specification the embodiments of the invention do not necessarily address any of these deficiencies. In other words different embodiments of the invention may address different deficiencies that may be discussed in the specification. Some embodiments may only partially address some deficiencies or just one deficiency that may be discussed in the specification and some embodiments may not address any of these deficiencies.

Methods and systems are provided for facilitating dynamic and segment based monitoring of cellular network performance. The facilitating and monitoring in one embodiment are provided in an on demand services environment. In one embodiment and by way of example a method includes dividing a cellular network path of a cellular network into a plurality of network segments and initiating monitoring of performance of the cellular network at a first network segment of the plurality of network segments. The first network segment is associated with a first segment point includes a first computing device. The method may further includes generating first metrics based on first monitoring data relating to the first network segment and forwarding the first metrics to a second segment point coupled with the first segment point over the first network segment. The second segment point includes a second computing device.

Next mechanisms and methods for dynamic and segment based monitoring of cellular network performance will be described with reference to example embodiments.

Computing device includes an operating system serving as an interface between any hardware or physical resources of the computer device and a user. Computing device further includes one or more processors memory devices network devices drivers or the like as well as input output I O sources such as touchscreens touch panels touch pads virtual or regular keyboards virtual or regular mice etc. It is to be noted that terms like node computing node client client device server server device machine host machine device computing device computer computing system multi tenant on demand data system and the like are used interchangeably throughout this document to illustrate various environments that may implement one or more aspects of the invention. It is to be further noted that terms like application software application program software program package and software package are used interchangeably throughout this document to illustrate various environments that may implement one or more aspects of the invention.

In one embodiment a dynamic cellular network performance monitoring mechanism performs monitoring of performance of a cellular network divided into multiple segments from the perspective of a user computing device e.g. a mobile device such as a smartphone . This can be accomplished for example by measuring the data speed during for example Application Programming Interface API calls which forms the application layer performance data. For example a simple token identifier may be generated at the application layer such as using the Cyclic Redundancy Check CRC code of the data collected to this segment point in the cellular network. Further the application layer performance may be tagged with hardware generated data which can uniquely identify the user computing device s data without any user intervention. This for example may include coarse grained GPS data e.g. network data etc. fine grained GPS data atomic clock reading from GPS etc. The data may also be identified with unique information about the user computing device such as the mobile device s unique identifier e.g. an Employer Identification Number EIN number etc. may also be collected. Other information such geo tagging revealing geographic or physical locations e.g. longitude latitude etc. of the user computing device may be added to the data to provide and associate additional information with the monitoring data. Similar steps may be taken at other network segments and segment points e.g. cellular tower sever computer etc. to gather segment based monitoring data relating to performance of the cellular network and provided to a database within a cloud network to be access and analyzed. This and other aspects of embodiments will be further described with reference to the subsequent figures.

The monitoring unit in one embodiment includes a network segment recognition module to recognize multiple segments of a cellular network and further to divide the cellular network into those multiple segments so that each segment can be individually and independently monitored without having to require the monitoring of the entire cellular network. This novel technique of dynamic segment based monitoring provides clear and efficient monitoring that is particular to issues relating to each segment which prevents the monitoring data from getting convoluted and without having to overload the entire cellular network. For example and in one embodiment a typical cellular network may be divided into 1 a radio link segment first segment between a user computing device e.g. a mobile device such as a smartphone a tablet computer etc. and a network or cellular tower 2 a network segment second segment between the cellular tower and a network or cellular gateway e.g. a gateway computer and 3 another network segment third segment between the network gateway and a network computer e.g. server computer over a network e.g. Internet or the like. Further a continuing segment may include a communication link between the server computer of the cellular network and a database associated with a computer system e.g. server computer in a cloud e.g. via cloud computing to maintain and provide access to the monitoring data collected from the various network segments.

A data collection module is used to facilitate collection of monitoring data including that which is collected automatically by the segment point based device e.g. a user computing device or manually entered by a user e.g. a user of a mobile device a system administrator at any of the segment points such as at a cellular tower a software developer an employee such as of a telecommunication company an independent or industry based analyst to analyze the collected monitoring data for potential improvements etc. . In one embodiment this monitoring data may be collected and gathered at the network segments e.g. at the user mobile computing device itself at the first segment . For example a mobile device s network connection may be lost and this connection loss may be automatically performed by the data collection module which then gathers any information relating to the connection loss. Further for example the user of the mobile device notices the connection loss and manually enters information or monitoring data relating to the connection loss. Similarly in one embodiment various network issues e.g. data speed voice clarity network clock etc. at multiple segments and segment points may be automatically detected by the data collection module which then automatically gathers relevant monitoring data relating to the detected issues.

A metrics generator then generates metrics using the gathered or collected monitoring data and using its conversion module performs any necessary conversion e.g. converting monitoring data entered in English into software code or machine language adding metrics to a network package etc. . A network package or other digital data propagated across a link e.g. a radio microwave packet refers to an arbitrary format and or data frame. For example and in other words a networking protocol may not matter and that each controlling node or segment point e.g. cellular tower cellular gateway etc. in the communication link can add data to the network package by inserting new monitoring data into a single existing network packet or by generating additional network packets having the new monitoring data. Examples of network protocols include but limited to packet radios digital microwave network transmission protocols IPv4 networking protocols IPv6 networking protocols etc. Further each subsequent node or point such as cellular tower cellular gateway network server computer etc. in the communication link may transmit its metrics with an entirely different protocol than the network protocol initially used to transmit the metric from the first node or end user s node such as mobile device . For example although the mobile device may use IPv4 as a network protocol but a metric may be transmitted using User Datagram Protocol UDP . In this case there are multiple communication channels open between various network segments .

A metric refers to a unit of monitoring data also referred to as data unit monitoring data unit monitoring unit that relates to a particular network monitoring observation such as a particular network issue e.g. data speed connection loss etc. . It is contemplated that a metric may be broadened such as relating to all issues relating to a segment of the cellular network etc. or narrowed such as relating to a particular aspect of a particular issue associated with a particular segment or segment point of the cellular network etc. as desired or necessitated. Although monitoring data may be stored at memory or data storage connected with any of the segment points it is then converted into metrics and embedded into a network package also by the conversion module. In other words the metric generator using its conversion module generates a metric based on monitoring data gathered at a user computing device and then inserts the metric into a network package which then forwarded on to other segments and segment points of the cellular network. Having these metrics generated at each segment point embedded into the same network package preserves the monitoring data contained within these metrics. Moreover in one embodiment at each segment point new metrics representing new or supplemental monitoring data can be added to the existing metrics and then added to the same network package so the previously as well as the newly generated monitoring data can be protected against accidental or unwanted changes so it remains preserved protected and trusted.

A forwarding module of the cellular monitoring mechanism is responsible for navigating the network package having metrics representing monitoring data within the cellular network such as forwarding it from one segment or segment point to another segment or segment point . For example a network package having metrics generated at a user computing device e.g. smartphone is forwarded on to the next segment point such as a cellular network tower where new metrics may be added to the network package. These new metrics may include new monitoring data relating to new issues relating to the cellular tower or segments of network surrounding it or contain supplement monitoring data to supplement the existing monitoring data collected at previous segment point and contained within the existing metrics of the network package. Examples of monitoring data gathered at cellular towers may include tower identification tower location data speed geo tagging timestamp and performance issues e.g. signal strength etc. particular to the cellular tower etc.

Similarly the forwarding module forwards the network packaging now having user computing device metrics and cellular tower metrics to the next segment point such as a network gateway computer. A network gateway computing device may include a server computer that serves as gateway to the network e.g. the Internet intranet cloud computing Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN Metropolitan Area Network MAN Personal Area Network PAN etc. . As with the previous segment points e.g. user device cellular tower new gateway related metrics may be added to the network package. For example certain network performance related monitoring data e.g. network speed signal strength etc. as well as certain supplemental data e.g. atomic clock reading timestamp GPS location data speed server computer identification and location etc. may be added as new gateway metrics to the network package. Similarly in one embodiment the network package may be forwarded on to other subsequent network segments e.g. a network server computer etc. to adopt additional metrics.

Once the network package has gone through the cellular network path the forwarding module forwards the network package on to a database and or a computer device associated with the database for storage of the network package. This database may be cloud based and accessed via a cloud network. In one embodiment the network package may be deciphered and or interpreted so that the monitoring data contained within its metrics may be provided to users who wish to access review and analyze issues relating to the cellular network. For example the interpreted monitoring data may be provided as a monitoring report such as in English Chinese etc. and any user may be able to read and understand. Examples of such user may include a system administrator a software developer a marketing executive etc. at one or more service providers e.g. telecommunication companies Internet service providers etc. software companies e.g. software application providers operating system providers etc. hardware companies e.g. makers of smartphone tablet computers laptop computers GPS navigation systems etc. who reviews and analyzes the monitoring report to for example fix any network related problems e.g. drop calls slow data speed better operating system enhanced keyboard touchpad etc. for their future versions to be sold to their customers e.g. the user of a mobile device .

The cellular monitoring mechanism further includes a compatibility module that allows the cellular monitoring mechanism to be dynamically and automatically compatible with any type of computer devices e.g. computer device of software applications cellular e.g. phone data etc. services and service providers software development platforms application servers interfaces e.g. Graphical User Interface GUI based interfaces etc. Internet or hotspot service providers e.g. telecommunication companies etc. and the like. It is to be noted that embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the metrics the monitoring data the mobile computing device the segments the segment points etc. described herein with reference to or elsewhere throughout this document.

It is contemplated that any number and type of components may be added to and removed from the cellular monitoring mechanism to facilitate dynamic and segment based performance monitoring of cellular networks. For brevity clarity ease of understanding and to stay focused on the cellular monitoring mechanism many of the standard or known components such as those of a computing device are not shown or discussed here. It is contemplated that embodiments of the invention are not limited to any particular technology or standard and is dynamic enough to adopt and adapt to the changing technology and standards.

As aforementioned in one embodiment using the cellular monitoring mechanism cellular network performance data is collected and provided as data units referred to as metrics that are added to a network package at the user mobile device . The network package is then forwarded onto the cellular tower over the first segment where additional metrics may be added to the network package. Then the network package is forwarded on to the cellular gateway where more metrics may be added to the network package before it is forwarded on to the network server while further metrics may be added. The next destination for the network package is a database that is accessible over a cloud network and where the network package is deciphered and provided in a simple form to the users for analysis.

In one embodiment the cellular monitoring mechanism of may be employed at a single computing system such as at the host machine of which may represent a host server computer system in the cloud such as associated with the database or the network server computer of or the like and provide an interface e.g. a GUI based interface at each of the other participating machines such as the network gateway the cellular tower the user computing device etc. to facilitate dynamic and segment based monitoring of cellular network performance. In another embodiment the cellular monitoring mechanism of may be employed at a single host machine such as the cloud based host machine of or the network server computer while certain components e.g. monitoring unit forwarding module etc. of the cellular monitoring mechanism may be employed at the aforementioned other machines at segment points . In yet another embodiment each computing system at each segment point may include an entire version of the cellular monitoring mechanism of . It is contemplated that the host machine of may be any one of the segment point machines illustrated here or a cloud based machine such as host machine of in communicated with the participating machines .

Method begins at block with initiation at a user computing device e.g. smartphone tablet computer laptop computer GPS navigation system etc. of dynamic and segment based monitoring of cellular network performance. The user computing device may be part of and serve as the first segment point of the cellular network performance. At block monitoring data is gathered at the user computing device and then user metrics are generated based on the gathered monitoring data. At block these user metric are inserted or embedded into or added to a network package of the cellular network and then this network package is forwarded onto the cellular network s next segment point such as a network cellular tower that is in communication with the user computing device over a first segment of the cellular network.

At block as with the user computing device monitoring data is gathered at the network cellular tower and then tower metrics are generated based on the gathered tower monitoring data. At block these tower metrics are inserted into the network package and then the network package is forwarded on to the next segment point such as a network cellular gateway computer that is in communication with the cellular tower over a second segment of the cellular network. At block as with the first two segment points monitoring data is gathered at the network cellular gateway and then gateway metrics are generated based on the gathered gateway monitoring data. At block these gateway metrics are inserted into the network package and then this network package is sent on to the next cellular network segment such as a network cellular server computer which is in communication with the network cellular gateway computer over a third segment of cellular network.

At block monitoring data is gathered at the network cellular server computer and then server metrics are generated based on the gathered server monitoring data. At block the server metrics are inserted into the network package which is then forwarded onto a cloud based database or a computing system associated with the database for storage of the network package. Further at block this network package is not only stored at the database but also deciphered or interpreted so that it can be provided in a version e.g. in the form of a report that is acceptable to those users who wish to access review and analyze the interpreted version of the findings of the dynamic and segment based monitoring of cellular network performance.

The exemplary computer system includes a processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. static memory such as flash memory static random access memory SRAM volatile but high data rate RAM etc. and a secondary memory e.g. a persistent storage device including hard disk drives and persistent multi tenant data base implementations which communicate with each other via a bus . Main memory includes emitted execution data e.g. data emitted by a logging framework and one or more trace preferences which operate in conjunction with processing logic and processor to perform the methodologies discussed herein.

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. Processor is configured to execute the processing logic for performing the operations and functionality of dynamic visual workflow mechanism as described with reference to and other figures discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface card . The computer system also may include a user interface such as a video display unit a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. an integrated speaker . The computer system may further include peripheral device e.g. wireless or wired communication devices memory devices storage devices audio processing devices video processing devices etc. The computer system may further include a Hardware based API logging framework capable of executing incoming requests for services and emitting execution data responsive to the fulfillment of such incoming requests.

The secondary memory may include a machine readable storage medium or more specifically a machine accessible storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions of dynamic visual workflow mechanism as described with reference to and other figures described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable storage media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface card . The machine readable storage medium may include transitory or non transitory machine readable storage media.

Portions of various embodiments of the present invention may be provided as a computer program product which may include a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer program instructions which may be used to program a computer or other electronic devices to perform a process according to the embodiments of the present invention. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks compact disk read only memory CD ROM and magneto optical disks ROM RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically EPROM EEPROM magnet or optical cards flash memory or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

The techniques shown in the figures can be implemented using code and data stored and executed on one or more electronic devices e.g. an end station a network element . Such electronic devices store and communicate internally and or with other electronic devices over a network code and data using computer readable media such as non transitory computer readable storage media e.g. magnetic disks optical disks random access memory read only memory flash memory devices phase change memory and transitory computer readable transmission media e.g. electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals . In addition such electronic devices typically include a set of one or more processors coupled to one or more other components such as one or more storage devices non transitory machine readable storage media user input output devices e.g. a keyboard a touchscreen and or a display and network connections. The coupling of the set of processors and other components is typically through one or more busses and bridges also termed as bus controllers . Thus the storage device of a given electronic device typically stores code and or data for execution on the set of one or more processors of that electronic device. Of course one or more parts of an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using different combinations of software firmware and or hardware.

