---

title: Systems and methods for biometric data management using relational database management systems (RDBMS)
abstract: A structured query language (SQL) relational database management system (SQL RDBMS) may integrate a biometric subsystem to process and manage biometric data separately from the demographic data stored in normalized SQL tables of the SQL RDBMS. The SQL RDBMS may be operatively connected to the biometric subsystem by means of SQL extensions. The SQL RDBMS may execute queries with demographic and/or biometric constraints, wherein the demographic data is retrieved directly from normalized SQL tables on the RDBMS, while the biometric data is retrieved in the form of scores or probabilities from the biometric subsystem. The SQL RDBMS may return a query result set containing demographic data associated with corresponding biometric data, allowing the authentication of biometric clients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09268904&OS=09268904&RS=09268904
owner: ImageWare Systems, Inc.
number: 09268904
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131002
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 708 897 filed Oct. 2 2012 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR BIOMETRIC DATA MANAGEMENT USING RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS RDBMS the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure is related to biometric authentication and more specifically to a relational database management system that may perform biometric authentication.

The need to establish personal identity occurs for most individuals many times a day. For example a person may have to establish identity in order to gain access to physical spaces computers bank accounts personal records restricted areas reservations and the like. Identity is typically established by something we have e.g. a key driver license bank card credit card etc. something we know e.g. computer password PIN number etc. or some unique and measurable biological feature e.g. our face recognized by a bank teller or security guard etc. . The most secure means of identity is a biological or behavioral feature that can be objectively and automatically measured and is resistant to impersonation theft or other fraud. The use of biometrics which are measurements derived from human biological features to identify individuals is a rapidly emerging science.

Biometrics is a generic term for characteristics that can be used to distinguish one individual from another particularly through the use of digital equipment. An example of a biometric is a fingerprint. Trained analysts have long been able to match fingerprints in order to identify individuals. More recently computer systems have been developed to match fingerprints automatically. Examples of biometrics used to identify or authenticate the identity of individuals include 2D face 3D face hand geometry single fingerprint ten finger live scan iris palm full hand signature ear finger vein retina DNA and voice. Other biometric may include characteristic gaits lip movements and the like. New biometric are being developed or discovered continually.

It is common to employ a relational database management systems RDBMS to manage biometric data. Such relational database management systems are not designed specifically for the processing of biometric data and may often impose resource intensive processes thereby utilizing a high number of computing resources e.g. power processor storage memory and or network capacity . The resource utilization may incur a significant delay in performing the biometric analysis and matching requests.

In justice and law enforcement biometrics technology may be applicable for analyzing crime scenes and suspects. Biometric databases for law enforcement applications may contain thousands or millions of records and the identification of a criminal or suspect may need to be determined in a fast and accurate way before they may cause harm to someone. Thus there exists the need for an effective database architecture model for managing biometric data in a RDBMS.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 689 005 issued to Wang et al. discloses a method and system for constructing a database management system for managing biometric data. The disclosed system in Wang receives data from another database or from and enrollment process encodes the data with an encoding plug in and stores the encoded data in a biometric data storage. The data may be enhanced before being stored. Incoming target data likewise is encoded using an encoding plug in and may be pre processed and is sent to a matching algorithm that is either built in or a plug in algorithm.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 949 156 issued to Willis et al. discloses a method for analyzing a dataset comprising biographic data and biometric data. In one step a biographic record is read that is normally meant for unique description of an individual. A biometric associated with the biographic record is also read. The biometric is correlated with a plurality of biometrics associated with other biographic records. The uniqueness of the biometric is assessed with respect to the plurality of biometrics for example to find duplicate biographic records with biometric matching.

However the prior art falls short because it does not convert biometric data into a biometric template that can be compared to a plurality of stored biometric templates to see if there is a match and does not process biometric data separately from demographic data allowing a faster and more accurate execution of queries including both demographic and biometric constraints.

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure the capabilities of the structured query language SQL of a RDBMS may be extended through the integration of a real time biometric subsystem. Said biometric subsystem may be operatively coupled to the SQL RDBMS via SQL extensions. In addition the SQL RDBMS may include normalized tables separated from the biometric subsystem where demographic data may be stored.

The biometric subsystem may comprise proprietary biometric management functions a template data manager and a non normalized biometric data cache. The biometric management functions in concert with the template data manager may process and convert biometric data into biometric templates which are subsequently stored in the non normalized biometric data cache. The operation of the biometric subsystem may allow the SQL RDBMS to process biometric data separately from the demographic data stored in normal SQL tables allowing a faster and more accurate execution of queries that may include a combination of demographic and biometric constraints.

According to an embodiment the SQL RDBMS may receive a query with demographic and or biometric constraints wherein the demographic data may be retrieved directly from the normal SQL tables of the SQL RDBMS according to the demographic restraint of the query. In a separate process that occurs in the biometric subsystem the biometric restraint of the query may be processed and analyzed by the biometric management functions and the template data manager to match against stored biometric templates in the non normalized biometric data cache. The results of the biometric matching may then be returned in the form of biometric scores or probabilities which can then be associated with the demographic results from the normal SQL tables. As such the returned data set from the SQL RDBMS to the corresponding biometric clients or users may contain demographic data associated with biometric data allowing authentication of biometric users.

In another embodiment the SQL RDBMS may receive a query with a plurality of biometric constraints wherein the biometric subsystem may analyze said biometric constraints to return a plurality of biometric scores or probabilities corresponding to each query biometric restraint. In addition the SQL RBDMS may receive also a query with a plurality of different types of biometrics constraints such as iris face and or fingerprint wherein the biometric subsystem may process and analyze the different types of biometric constraints to return a fusion biometric score or probability.

The SQL RDBMS may execute queries including SELECT statements with demographic and or biometric constraints to authenticate biometric users along with other SQL statements such as INSERT DELETE and UPDATE to manage demographic data and biometric data in the normal SQL tables and the biometric subsystem respectively.

In another embodiment the SQL RDBMS may contain relational database views created using user defined functions including demographic and or biometric data that may be used in conjunction with a client application to limit client access and therefore increase system security.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may further include a web interface that may provide connection of a plurality of biometric clients to the SQL RDBMS over a network such as the internet.

In one embodiment a system comprises a biometric management function configured to receive and analyze biometric data a template data manager coupled to the biometric management function the template data manager configured to create a biometric template by converting the biometric data and a biometric data cache coupled to the template data manager the biometric data cache configured to store a plurality of stored biometric templates wherein the template data manager compares the created biometric template with the plurality of stored biometric templates to form a biometric score.

The biometric score may comprise a probability of an enrolled biometric user and the biometric data representing the same identity or may result in a biometric authentication of a biometric user when the biometric score exceeds a threshold. The biometric data may comprise a plurality of biometric data such as an iris a face or a fingerprint. The system may further comprise a structured query language extension coupled to the biometric management function. The structured query language extension may be configured to couple to a structured query language in a relationship database management system. The structured query language may comprise a select statement an insert statement a delete statement or an update statement. The biometric data may be provided through a biometric user through a web interface. The web interface may provide the biometric data over a network such as the Internet. The biometric data cache may comprise a non normalized biometric data cache.

In another embodiment a method comprises the steps of receiving and analyzing biometric data using a biometric management function creating a biometric template using a template data manager by converting the biometric data and storing a plurality of stored biometric templates using a biometric data cache wherein the template data manager compares the created biometric template with the plurality of stored biometric templates to form a biometric score. The biometric score may comprise a probability of an enrolled biometric user and the biometric data representing the same identity or may result in a biometric authentication of a biometric user when the biometric score exceeds a threshold. The biometric data may comprise a plurality of biometric data.

In a further embodiment a system comprises a relationship database management system comprising a structured query language extension a biometric subsystem coupled to the structured query language extension wherein the biometric subsystem comprising a biometric management function configured to receive and analyze biometric data a template data manager coupled to the biometric management function the template data manager configured to create a biometric template by converting the biometric data and a biometric data cache coupled to the template data manager the biometric data cache configured to store a plurality of stored biometric templates wherein the template data manager compares the created biometric template with the plurality of stored biometric templates to form a biometric score. The biometric score may comprise a probability of an enrolled biometric user and the biometric data representing the same identity or may result in a biometric authentication of a biometric user when the biometric score exceeds a threshold. The biometric data may comprise a plurality of biometric data.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings which are not to scale or to proportion similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and examples are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be used and or other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure.

As used herein Biometric Authentication may consist of methods for uniquely recognizing humans based upon one or more intrinsic physical or behavioral traits.

As used herein Biometric Verification may consist of using biometric authentication to verify the identity of a person.

As used herein Biometric Identification may consist of using biometric authentication to identify a person among a biometrically enrolled population.

As used herein Biometric Enrollment may refer to the act of creating and storing biometric data templates from captured biometric images or other biometric data for the purpose of biometric authentication i.e. verification and or identification .

As used herein Biometric Probe may be a captured biometric that is used to compare and match against a prior biometric enrollment.

As used herein Biometric Score or Match Score may be a probability score that a given biometric enrollment and a given biometric probe represent the same identity.

As used herein Biometric Fusion Score may be a probability score that multiple biometric enrollments of one or more biometric modalities match multiple biometric probes of the same modalities. The scores of each modality have been normalized and combined i.e. fused to create a single probability score.

As used herein Biometric Capture may refer to the act of using a biometric input device or system to capture biometric probe in the form of images templates or other form.

As used herein Biometric Data may refer to data that is used to verify or identify a person based on physical traits or behaviors. Examples of biometric data include images of fingerprints faces irises and binary data generated by biometric algorithms that are used for biometric enrollment identity verification and identification.

As used herein Biometric Template may be a piece of binary data generated by a biometric algorithm that is used to compare one biometric against another.

As used herein Demographic Data may refer to non biometric data that intrinsically identifies a person. Examples of demographic data may include name s height weight birth date race color hair color current location location of origin among others.

As used herein Query Engine may refer to a system capable of comparing biometric templates and may return a biometric score or a biometric fusion score.

As used herein Biometric Management Functions may refer to a set of intrinsic or user defined functions developed to extend the functionality of a relational database management system to be able to execute queries with biometric constraints.

As used herein Query Parameter may refer to data provided in a query in order to limit or process query returned results.

As used herein Transaction may refer to a sequence of operations performed as a single logical unit of work.

Referring first to a block diagram of a biometrically enabled database infrastructure is shown. Included in database infrastructure are a biometric client a relational database management system SQL RDBMS a normalized demographic database and a biometric subsystem .

According to an embodiment SQL RDBMS may be operatively connected to a biometric client which may comprise a computer having installed a suitable device for capturing biometric probes as well as a suitable input device for text input. SQL RDBMS may comprise a conventional relational database management system such as Microsoft SQL Server Oracle MySql and or other suitable relational database management systems.

Demographic database is a normalized relational database containing demographic data wherein said demographic data may be managed in normalized SQL tables using the standard RDBMS SQL language . The information stored in demographic database may include name address phone number email address identification number s date of birth citizenship and or other demographic information. Additionally there may be application specific information stored in demographic database . For example an accounting department may store information related to payroll accounts payable accounts receivable inventory cost revenues and or other application specific information in demographic database . In another example a customs database may contain information about crossing time and declarations from various border crossings. Demographic database may comprise a plurality of tables containing different data and each table may contain a field that uniquely identifies each record.

SQL RDBMS may be operatively connected to biometric subsystem through SQL extensions . A non normalized biometric data cache may be added to SQL RDBMS to store biometric data specifically in the form of biometric templates. Biometric data cache may be a real time high performance database in a biometric data cache format. Biometric data cache may not contain any demographic data wherein all demographic data is instead contained in demographic database in the form of normal SQL tables. Biometric templates stored in biometric data cache may include 2D face 3D face Iris retina finger vein palm vein single fingerprint fingerprints scans of the flat of a palm writers palm hand geometry dental records signature voice nuclear DNA mitochondrial DNA keystroke gait smell and or any other biometric feature that can be digitally analyzed. Biometric data cache may also have a unique non intrinsic identifier to associate a biometric template with their corresponding identity defined in normal SQL tables within demographic database .

Biometric subsystem may also include a set of intrinsic or user defined biometric management functions . Biometric management functions may be created and configured using SQL extensions wherein the structured query language SQL of SQL RDBMS may be extended providing SQL RDBMS with the capability of executing SQL statements against biometric data cache . For instance in an embodiment wherein Microsoft SQL Server may be used as SQL RDBMS extended stored procedures packaged over dynamic link libraries DLLs may extend Microsoft SQL Server functionality through functions developed by using C C or any other compatible programing language the Open Data Services API and the Microsoft Win32 API. These functions can send result sets and output parameters back to a client from a plurality of external data sources. Many commercial and open source RDBMS have similar or comparable functionality.

According to an embodiment biometric subsystem may also include a template data manager to work in conjunction with biometric management functions and biometric data cache . Template data manager may create new biometric templates accordingly to biometric probes received from biometric client and match said created biometric templates against previously stored biometric templates in biometric data cache based on matching parameters provided by biometric management functions . For instance when a fingerprint type biometric probe is captured from biometric client and analyzed by biometric management functions template data manager may create a biometric template and compare it against biometric templates stored in biometric data cache . The result of the comparison is a biometric score which may represent a probability that the biometric probe captured corresponds to the same individual as the biometric template it s being compared against. The biometric subsystem may return the biometric score to the SQL RDBMS wherein said biometric score may be associated with the corresponding identity s stored in normal SQL tables of demographic database and subsequently merged into a single result set containing demographic data and respective biometric score.

Database infrastructure may be able to process SELECT INSERT DELETE UPDATE and or any other SQL statements with biometric and demographic query constraints or parameters.

Subsequently at block biometric management functions and template data manager within biometric subsystem may analyze and convert biometric probe into a biometric template to match against previously stored biometric templates in biometric data cache . From said matching process biometric scores may be generated and returned to SQL RDBMS at block . Following the process at block SQL RDBMS may analyze non biometric data from the normal SQL tables in the normalized demographic database generating a result set. At block SQL RDBMS may then merge the results set generated at block and the biometric scores generated at block into a single result set wherein said single result set can then be returned to the biometric client application at block .

In another embodiment a SQL SELECT statement may be used for a biometric identification process. For instance a SQL SELECT statement may include a fingerprint image as a biometric probe along with a biometric score threshold. In biometric subsystem the fingerprint type biometric probe may then be converted into a biometric template using biometric management functions and template data manager and subsequently compared against stored biometric templates in biometric data cache . The matching process may be performed until a list of candidates that meet the minimum biometric score threshold is generated. The biometric subsystem may then return said list of matches to the SQL RDBMS to be associated with a first name and last name contained in the normal SQL tables of the demographic database . As such SQL RDBMS may return to the biometric client a list of potential candidates that match the biometric constraints in the SQL SELECT statement. In other embodiments the SQL SELECT statement may return demographic data with no associated biometric scores or biometric scores with no associated demographic data.

In another embodiment an SQL INSERT statement may be used for the enrollment process of new biometric clients . For instance an SQL INSERT statement may include a fingerprint image as biometric probe and the name and last name associated with said fingerprint. The SQL INSERT statement may then be processed by SQL RDBMS wherein name and last name may be stored in the normal SQL tables within demographic database while in the biometric subsystem the fingerprint biometric probe may be analyzed and converted into a biometric template to be stored in biometric data cache .

Following the process in SQL RDBMS may generate a transaction and delete biometric demographic data from the normal SQL tables within demographic database at block . Subsequently biometric subsystem may erase the biometric templates from biometric data cache associated with biometric probes at block . Biometric subsystem may return a success or failure message to the SQL RDBMS at block . SQL RDBMS may then analyze the success failure message and may either commit the transaction or roll back the transaction at block . Finally biometric client may retrieve a success failure message from the SQL RDBMS at block .

In other embodiments a SQL DELETE statement may be executed in database infrastructure to remove demographic data and biometric templates from demographic database and biometric data cache respectively for different purposes such as but not limited to elimination of corrupted data or data no longer required and database optimization.

At block SQL RDBMS may then generate a transaction and update the demographic biographic data stored in the normal SQL tables within demographic database . Subsequently biometric subsystem may update the biometric templates from biometric data cache associated with biometric probes at block . Biometric subsystem may return a success or failure message to the SQL RDBMS at block . SQL RDBMS may then analyze the success failure message and may either commit the transaction or roll back the transaction at block . Finally biometric client may retrieve a success failure message from the SQL RDBMS at block .

According to an embodiment SQL UPDATE statement may be executed in database infrastructure to update either demographic data or biometric templates that may have changed in time or that may have not been saved properly in database infrastructure during a previous enrollment process.

Referring now to a high level block diagram of a multimodal biometric client is depicted according to an embodiment. Biometric client may include commercially available biometric input and capture devices such as a digital camera for capturing facial images a fingerprint scanner and an iris image capture device . Biometric client may also include a client SDK that collects and formats biometric data captured by the capture device for transmission to SQL RDBMS and presents information returned from SQL RDBMS . Biometric client may include a display and a user input device such as a keypad keyboard mouse or the like.

The embodiment of a multimodal biometric client shown in may operate in database infrastructure during a query execution process . When a multimodal biometric client includes different modalities of biometric probes such as face fingerprint iris among others biometric management functions in conjunction with template data manager may analyze and convert each of the biometric probes into corresponding biometric templates for matching against stored biometric templates in biometric data cache at block . Matching may result in individual scores for each type of biometric template being compared. The biometric scores generated for the different modalities of biometric probes may be combined into a single fusion biometric score and biometric subsystem may then return said fusion biometric score to SQL RDBMS at block . All other steps before and after block may be executed as depicted in .

In another embodiment the security for accessing information from demographic database and biometric data cache in SQL RDBMS may be enhanced by the use of relational database views. During a query execution in database infrastructure database views may limit the access to demographic data in the normal SQL tables and biometric templates wherein database views may contain tabular data structure about specific sections of demographic database and biometric data cache . Biometric client may then execute SQL statements against said relational database views instead of directly against demographic database and or biometric data cache .

Example 1 is an embodiment wherein a police law enforcement application is configured to use database infrastructure . The law enforcement application or biometric client may need to identify a possible suspect using fingerprints. The law enforcement application provides at least one biometric probe from said individual and executes the following query against SQL RDBMS 

SQL RDBMS may then execute this statement wherein BiometricScore is executed against biometric data cache in biometric subsystem where BiometricScore may be intrinsic functions or a user defined functions created by extending the SQL language of SQL RDBMS . FirstName and LastName fields may be processed against normalized demographic database . Identities may be a SQL table in normalized demographic database . The SQL statement may then return a result set containing the first name and the last name plus a biometric score that meets the biometric restraint 0.90 of the query statement.

Example 2 is an embodiment wherein a police law enforcement application or biometric client may need to enroll a person in database infrastructure . The law enforcement application provides first name and last name along with at least one biometric probe from said individual and executes the following query against SQL RDBMS 

SQL RDBMS may then execute this statement wherein BIO FPrint is executed against biometric data cache in biometric subsystem where BIO FPrint may be intrinsic function or a user defined function created by extending the SQL language of SQL RDBMS . FirstName and LastName fields may be processed and stored over normalized demographic database . Identities may be a SQL table in normalized demographic database . The SQL statement may insert the ExName and ExLastName into the demographic database while the fprint.jpeg in the form of a biometric template may be inserted in the biometric data cache .

Example 3 is an embodiment wherein a police law enforcement application or biometric client may need to update biometric data on a person due to an error during enrollment in database infrastructure . The law enforcement application provides first name and last name along with at least one biometric probe from said individual and executes the following query against SQL RDBMS 

SQL RDBMS may then execute this statement wherein Fingerprint is executed against biometric data cache in biometric subsystem where FingerPrint may be an intrinsic function or a user defined function created by extending the SQL language of SQL RDBMS . FirstName and LastName fields may be processed and stored over normalized demographic database . Identities may be a SQL table in the normalized demographic database . The SQL statement may update the ExName and ExLastName into demographic database wherever the UserId is equal to 12345 and may also update the corresponding biometric template fprint.jpeg in biometric data cache .

Example 4 is an embodiment wherein a police law enforcement application or biometric client may require deleting demographic and biometric data related to a person due to an error that occurred during enrollment in database infrastructure . The law enforcement application provides first name and last name along with at least one biometric probe from said individual and executes the following query against SQL RDBMS 

SQL RDBMS may then execute this statement wherein BiometricData is executed against biometric data cache in biometric subsystem where BiometricData may be intrinsic function or a user defined function created by extending the SQL language of SQL RDBMS . Identities may be a SQL table in normalized demographic database . The SQL statement may then delete all records and associated biometric templates wherever UserId 12345.

Example 5 is an embodiment wherein a police law enforcement application is configured to use database infrastructure . The law enforcement application or biometric client may need to identify a possible suspect using fingerprints and iris. The law enforcement application provides one or more biometric probes from said individual and executes the following query against SQL RDBMS 

SELECT FirstName Lastname Score1 BiometricScore Fingerprint fprint.jpeg Score2 BiometricScore RIris RIris.jpeg FROM Identities

SQL RDBMS may then execute this statement wherein BiometricS core is executed against biometric data cache in biometric subsystem where BiometricScore may be intrinsic functions or a user defined functions created by extending the SQL language of SQL RDBMS . FirstName and LastName fields may be processed against normalized demographic database . Identities may be a SQL table in normalized demographic database . The SQL statement may then return a result set containing the first name and the last name associated with the biometric scores for each of the biometric probes that meet the biometric constraints 0.90 and 0.80 of the query statement.

Example 6 is an embodiment wherein a police law enforcement application is configured to use database infrastructure . The law enforcement application or biometric client may need to identify a possible suspect using fingerprints and iris. The law enforcement application provides one or more biometric probes from said individual and executes the following query against SQL RDBMS 

SELECT FirstName Lastname Score1 BiometricFusedScore Fingerprint fprint.jpeg RIris RIris.jpeg FROM Identities

SQL RDBMS may then execute this statement wherein BiometricFusedScore is executed against biometric data cache in biometric subsystem where BiometricFusedScore may be intrinsic functions or a user defined functions created by extending the SQL language of SQL RDBMS . FirstName and LastName fields may be processed against normalized demographic database . Identities may be a SQL table in normalized demographic database . The SQL statement may then return a result set containing the first name and the last name associated with a biometric fusion score that meet the biometric restraint 0.90 of the query statement.

