---

title: Systems and methods of redactive messaging
abstract: The technology disclosed relates to embedding private comments in public messages. In particular, it relates to customizing public messages by including private comments that are directed to specific recipients. The private comments are included in the context of the public messages sent to their intended recipients but excluded from the public message when it is sent to other recipients. The private comments can be viewable only to their intended recipients and in the context of the public response. The public response as seen by recipients not intended to receive private comments does not include the private comments. This enables a sender of a private comment to efficiently communicate selected information to specific recipients without burdening all recipients with information which may not be relevant for them. Furthermore, it preserves the overall context of the original message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09634977&OS=09634977&RS=09634977
owner: salesforce.com, inc.
number: 09634977
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20130830
---
The application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional Patent Application No. 61 708 385 entitled System and Method for Message Management System filed on Oct. 1 2012. The provisional application is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

The subject matter discussed in the background section should not be assumed to be prior art merely as a result of its mention in the background section. Similarly a problem mentioned in the background section or associated with the subject matter of the background section should not be assumed to have been previously recognized in the prior art. The subject matter in the background section merely represents different approaches which in and of themselves may also correspond to implementations of the claimed inventions.

The technology disclosed relates to embedding private comments in public messages. In particular it relates to customizing public messages by including private comments that are directed to specific recipients. The private comments are included in the context of the public messages sent to their intended recipients but excluded from the public message when it is sent to other recipients. The private comments can be viewable only to their intended recipients and in the context of the public response. The public response as seen by recipients not intended to receive private comments does not include the private comments. This enables a sender of a private comment to efficiently communicate selected information to specific recipients without burdening all recipients with information which may not be relevant for them. Furthermore it preserves the overall context of the original message.

Traditional email services and online social environments display messages posts and responses to all their addressees and subscribers. In this sense a user s responses are public in that they are seen in total by all recipients. However a user may wish to send a general response to all of the original recipients but include comments directed only to specific recipients.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide systems and methods that allow a user to embed private comments into public responses. Improved communication and user experience may result.

The technology disclosed relates to embedding private comments in public messages. In particular it relates to customizing public messages by including private comments that are directed to specific recipients. The private comments are included in the context of the public messages sent to their intended recipients but excluded from the public message when it is sent to other recipients. The private comments can be viewable only to their intended recipients and in the context of the public response. The public response as seen by recipients not intended to receive private comments does not include the private comments. This enables a sender of a private comment to efficiently communicate selected information to specific recipients without burdening all recipients with information which may not be relevant for them. Furthermore it preserves the overall context of the original message.

The following detailed description is made with reference to the figures. Sample implementations are described to illustrate the technology disclosed not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a variety of equivalent variations on the description that follows.

The technology disclosed relates to redactive messaging i.e. redacting messages in the sense of editing and preparing them for publication and distribution in a computer implemented system. The technology disclosed can be implemented in the context of any computer implemented system including a database system a multi tenant environment or the like. Moreover this technology can be implemented using two or more separate and distinct computer implemented systems that cooperate and communicate with one another. This technology may be implemented in numerous ways including as a process a method an apparatus a system a device a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium that stores computer readable instructions or computer program code or as a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein.

The technology disclosed relates to editing and preparing messages for publication and distribution in networked systems. In particular it relates to customizing public messages by allowing an author to add comments directed specifically to one or more individual recipients. This is done in a private manner so as not to burden all recipients with the comments which may not apply or be of interest to them. The term redactive messaging is used to describe this capability.

The technology disclosed relates to selecting and identifying specific user desired text within a larger text message selecting and identifying desired message recipients of the specific user desired text and sending the specific user desired text in the context of the larger text message to the desired message recipients while sending only the larger text message without the specific user desired text to other message recipients. The specific user desired text is effectively redacted from the public message.

Advantages that may accrue include reducing content in public messages that may be relevant for only a small number of recipients calling attention to specific information in a public message that is of particular interest to a subset of recipients posing questions to specific recipients about selected items and information in a public message reducing the number of additional messages that may be required to communicate about specific content in a public message that applies only to a subset of recipients creating separate message threads within the context of a public message thread etc.

In some implementations the engines can be of varying types including workstations servers computing clusters blade servers server farms or any other data processing systems or computing devices. In other implementations the data stores can be relational database management systems RDBMSs object oriented database management systems OODBMSs distributed file systems DFS or any other data storing systems or computing devices.

In some implementations environment may not have the same elements as those listed above and or may have other different elements instead of or in addition to those listed above. The different elements can be combined into single software modules and multiple software modules can run on the same hardware.

The public message store can include messages being sent to members of a group also called recipients. A public message can also be one that is sent to a public website for viewing by anyone who may access that site. The messages can include text created by a user and other data as well. Examples of messages include posts status updates likes replies shares mentions and comments.

The private comment store can include comments which are sent to a specific subset of recipients in a group as opposed to public comments which are sent to all members of the group. Private comments can be used to avoid burdening unintended recipients with information that may not be relevant to them. Private comments can also be used to coordinate actions among a subset of a group for instance if a project involves multiple sub projects then it can be more efficient to send specific private comments to members of the sub projects as part of an overall public message. This retains the overall context of the public message while informing selected recipients of information targeted specifically to them. In some implementations the public message store and private comments store can be part of a single database or message store with private comments specifically marked.

The thread management store can be used to track message threads and the private comments associated with them. A message thread can be a continuous collection of messages related to one topic question post and or comment. The messages can be collected and stored in the public message store . Private comments which can also be messages can be stored in the private comment store . Thread tracking can be done using a schema such as the one shown in . This allows threads to be associated with their respective messages comments authors and recipients. Threads can be presented in a chronological order. In some implementations a timestamp can also be associated with a thread. In some implementations the public message store private comments store and thread management store can be part of a single database.

The recipient and identifier store can include a unique identifier for each user. The identifier can be used to associate a user with messages threads and comments. Entries in the recipient and identifier store can include a display name for the corresponding user as well as their email addresses and online social handles or usernames. This information can enable a user interface to display a convenient user name while routing messages and comments to users via their email addresses and online social handles.

The social data store can include social media content like social media sources social accounts social personas social profiles social handles content shared feed items posts and the like. It can also include a user profile that includes data about the user of a database system. The data can include general information such as title phone number a photo and biographical summary. The data can include messages created by other users.

Social data store can include a feed that is a combination e.g. a list of feed items. A feed item or feed element can include information about a user of the database referred to as a profile feed or about a record referred to as record feed. A user following the user or record can receive the associated feed items. The feed items from all of the followed users and records can be combined into a single feed for the user.

An information feed in the context of a social network is a collection of information selected from the social network for presentation in a user interface. The information presented in the information feed can include entries posted to a user s wall or any other type of information accessible within the social network. For example a user s news feed can include text inputs such as comments e.g. statements questions emotional expressions responses to comments e.g. answers reactionary emotional expressions indications of personal preferences status updates and hyperlinks. As another example a news feed can include file uploads such as presentations documents multimedia files and the like.

A feed item can be a message post update stream and or a story also called a feed tracked change . A feed can be a combination of messages and stories. Messages can include text created by a user and other data as well. Examples of messages include posts status updates likes replies shares and comments. Messages can be created for a user s profile or for a record. Posts can be created by various users potentially any user although some restrictions can be applied. As an example posts can be made to a wall section of a user s profile which can include a number of recent posts or a section of a record that includes multiple posts. The posts can be organized in chronological order. A comment can be made on any feed item. In one implementation comments can be organized as a list explicitly tied to a particular story post or status update.

Social data store can include a group which is a collection of users. The group can be defined as users with a same or similar attribute or by membership. In one implementation a group feed can include any feed item about any user in a group. In another implementation a group feed can include feed items that are about the group as a whole. In one implementation the feed items for a group are only posts and comments.

Social data store can include an entity feed or record feed that refers to a feed of feed items about a particular record in the database such as stories about changes to the record and posts made by users about the record. An entity feed can be composed of any type of feed item. Such a feed can be displayed on a page e.g. a web page associated with the record e.g. a home page of the record . In other implementations a profile feed is a feed of feed items about a particular user.

In one implementation the feed items for a profile feed can be posts and comments that other users make about or send to the particular user and status updates made by the user. Such a profile feed can be displayed on a page associated with the particular user. In another implementation feed items in a profile feed can include posts made by the particular user and feed tracked changes stories initiated based on actions of the particular user.

In one implementation a user can make a comment within a user s news feed. Such a comment can propagate to the appropriate profile feed or record feed and then to the news feeds of the following users. Thus feeds can include what people are saying as well as what they are doing. In another implementation feeds are a way to stay up to date e.g. on users opportunities etc. as well as an opportunity to reach out to co workers partners and engage them around common goals.

The message processing engine can be used to send and receive messages and comments. Messages can be formatted using the formatting engine . For instance if a public message includes private comments then the message processing engine can remove these and use the formatting engine to omit any blank space or processing artifacts so that it is not apparent to viewers that private comments were present.

In one implementation the message processing engine can be used with the embedding engine and forwarding engine to send messages including private comments to their intended recipients. In one implementation a public message is retrieved from the public message store and a related private comment is retrieved from the private comment store . The embedding engine embeds the private comment into the public message and the forwarding engine send this version of the message to its intended recipients.

The user computing device can include an application that provides a user interface for a user to interact with the other components of the redactive messaging environment . For example the application can include software to communicate with the message processing engine and with an email service such as Outlook Gmail or Hotmail or an online social environment like Facebook Twitter or Chatter.

In one implementation social interface A C can take one of a number of forms including a dashboard interface engagement console and other interface such as a mobile interface or summary interface. Social interface A C can be hosted on a web based or cloud based application running on a computing device such as a personal computer laptop computer mobile device and or any other hand held computing device. It can also be hosted on a non social local application running in an on premise environment. In one implementation social interface A C can be accessed from a browser running on a computing device. The browser can be Chrome Internet Explorer Firefox Safari etc. In another implementation social interface A C as can run an engagement console on a computer desktop application primarily used for sending redactive messages.

In this example user named Ben Jacob who was not a recipient of a private comment responded with post that he is In the office today. Another user named Ken Brown responded to the public message with the post including text Visiting First St. Financial today and with the private comment Seeing Second St. Financial tomorrow. Finally user named Jillian Nemaen responded with the post to both the public message and private comment.

Responses to the private comments are identified using identifier BPC and each response is delimited by square brackets according to one implementation. Other identifiers can be used in some implementations including different text strings such as PRIVATE to identify a private comment and using parentheses or other special characters to delimit the private comment. In other implementations private comments can be identified using different colors or fonts.

In one implementation business interface can take one of a number of forms including a dashboard interface engagement console and other interface such as a mobile interface or summary interface. Business interface can be hosted on a web based or cloud based application running on a computing device such as a personal computer laptop computer mobile device and or any other hand held computing device. It can also be hosted on a non social local application running in an on premise environment. In one implementation business interface can be accessed from a browser running on a computing device. The browser can be Chrome Internet Explorer Firefox Safari etc. In another implementation business interface can run as an engagement console on a computer desktop application primarily used for sending redactive messages.

Public message objects can provide a list of public messages being sent and received among many authors and recipients. It can include columns that specify a thread ID for a related collection of public messages a message ID for each individual message a time stamp for each message an author ID for each message and the actual content of the public message.

Public message objects can have one or more of the following variables with certain attributes ThreadID being CHAR 15 BYTE MessageID being CHAR 15 BYTE Timestamp being CHAR 15 BYTE AuthorlD being CHAR 15 BYTE and PublicMessage being TEXT 65535 BYTE .

New entries can be added chronologically with a new record ID which can be incremented in order. The thread ID variable can provide a unique ID for each message thread. The message ID variable can provide a unique ID for each message within a thread. The timestamp variable can provide the time at which a message is sent. The author ID can provide a link to the name of the message author. The public message can store the actual message content.

Private message objects can provide a list of private comments with links to their corresponding public message objects. For instance row links a specific private comment to its parent public message. In particular the corresponding public message is given by a compound key including a thread ID and message ID 0123 and 0054 respectively which map to row in the public message objects . The BPC ID column in the private message objects shown in the example is used to uniquely identify a private comment. In the example of row the BPC ID is 0001. Likewise row maps the private comment identified having BPC ID equal to 0002 to the same row in the public message objects .

Private message objects can have one or more of the following variables with certain attributes ThreadID being CHAR 15 BYTE MessageID being CHAR 15 BYTE BPC ID being CHAR 15 BYTE and PrivateComments being TEXT 65535 BYTE .

Recipient objects can provide a list of recipients with their corresponding private message objects by using a compound key including a thread ID plus a message ID plus a BPC ID. This mapping allows all private comments to be tracked to each of their intended recipients. As can be seen in this example the first row maps recipient ID 1002 Ken Brown to row of the user objects and to the private comment in row of the private message objects . Rows and map respectively to rows and in the user objects . Likewise rows and map respectively to rows and in the private message objects .

Recipient objects can have one or more of the following variables with certain attributes ThreadID being CHAR 15 BYTE MessageID being CHAR 15 BYTE BPC ID being CHAR 15 BYTE and RecipientlD CHAR 15 BYTE .

User objects can provide a list of the recipients with their corresponding user IDs display names email addresses Chatter name Facebook name and Twitter name. These names and email addresses can be used to send public messages and private comments to users. The user IDs provide a concise way to link users to specific private message objects as described above for the recipient objects .

User objects can have one or more of the following variables with certain attributes UserID being CHAR 15 BYTE DisplayName being CHAR 80 BYTE EmailAddress being CHAR 80 BYTE ChatterName being CHAR 80 BYTE FB Name being CHAR 80 BYTE and TW Name being CHAR 80 BYTE .

New entries can be added chronologically with a new record ID which can be incremented in order. The UserID variable can provide a unique ID for each recipient and can be synonymous with the RecipientlD variable in the recipient objects and AuthorID in the public message objects . Furthermore the UserID variable can be used to relate all of the other variables being names and email addresses to entries in the public message objects and the recipient objects .

Input that represents private comments is received at action . The input can include any type of input used in the messaging environment. For instance in a Chatter environment the input may consist of text like that shown in BPC Ken Brown Al Smith Let me know if you are seeing Second St. Financial . In this case the private comment includes an identifier BPC which identifies it as a blind private comment similar to BCC generally interpreted as blind complete copy. A single key menu entry or action can be used to initiate private comment entry in according to one implementation.

At action private comments and intended recipients embedded within the public message are identified. The use of the symbol helps to make private comments unique and easily recognized by both humans and machines. There is also specific syntax used in this example as shown below 

PCID is the private comment identifier BPC in this example. RIDs are the recipient identifiers Ken Brown and Al Smith in this example.

The recipients are given as a list Ken Brown Al Smith. The start and end delimiters that surround the private comment are open and close brackets. The message content is included between the delimiters. Other syntax arrangements are possible for instance using a different identifier for the PCID and different start and end delimiters. In some implementations different fonts and colors may be used. In yet other implementations the delimiters may be made more implicit by automatically setting the end of a comment at the end of a line or paragraph.

At action the private comments can be linked with their intended recipients. Recipients can be identified using their display names as in the above example by their handles in an environment which provides ongoing comment and information feeds by their email addresses by usernames by tags and by social handles etc. Private comments that correspond to particular recipients can be associated with these recipients by using delimiters that follow the recipient identifiers as in the above example. In another implementation this can be done by using additional identifiers that link recipients to their corresponding comments. This allows specific private comments to be restricted to specific recipients. The identifiers can direct the private comments to restricted recipients via active hyper links allowing the restricted recipients to access additional private information. In some implementations selecting the active hyper links can immediately open a website document image or video.

At action private comments can be directed privately to their corresponding recipients. This can be done by removing private comments from a public message and sending that version of the public message to all recipients who are not restricted recipients of the private comments. Then the private comments for restricted recipients can be embedded or left in place in the message as sent to particular recipients. Thus there can be many versions of a public message with embedded private comments. Each version can be sent to only those recipients for whom it is intended based on the links created between the private comments and restricted recipients in action .

At action a user interface application that visually distinguishes private comments can be provided. This can be done by using font enhancements like italics or bold lettering or increasing font size or using a font color that differs from the surrounding text.

At action the public message can be formatted to remove the blank spaces resulting from excising the private comments. This can result in rendering the public message such that it is not apparent to a viewer that private comments were inserted for other viewers.

Electronic messaging systems can be passive in nature. While online social environments are more interactive and instantaneous in terms of responses or reaction times. The system is not necessarily part of the method. shows use of private comments in online social environments like Chatter Facebook Twitter and the like as opposed to their use in electronic messaging systems like Outlook Gmail Roundcube Hotmail etc. illustrated in .

At action a request to post a feed item is received. This request can take many forms and can be specific to the online social environment. For instance in a web based environment it can be received as an HTTP request.

At action private comments and intended recipients embedded within the feed item are identified. This can be done as described in action above using the symbol and specific syntax as used in this example as shown below 

PCID is the private comment identifier BPC in this example. RIDs are the recipient identifiers Ken Brown and Al Smith in this example.

The recipients are given as a list Ken Brown Al Smith. The start and end delimiters that surround the private comment are open and close brackets. The message content is contained between the delimiters. Other syntax arrangements are possible for instance using a different identifier for the PCID and different start and end delimiters. In some implementations different fonts and colors may be used. In yet other implementations the delimiters may be made more implicit by automatically setting the end of a comment at the end of a line or paragraph. Yet other alternatives for are possible and will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

At action the private comments can be linked with their intended recipients. Recipients can be identified using their display names as in the above example by their handles in an environment which provides ongoing comment and information feeds by their email addresses by usernames by tags etc. Private comments that correspond to particular recipients can be associated with these recipients by using delimiters that follow the recipient identifiers as in the above example. In another implementation this can be done by using additional identifiers that link recipients to their corresponding comments. This allows specific private comments to be restricted to specific recipients.

At action private comments can be directed privately to their corresponding recipients. This can be done by removing all private comments from a public message and sending that version of the public message to all recipients who have no associated private comments. Then private comments for restricted recipients can be embedded or left in place in the message as sent to particular recipients. Thus there may be many versions of a public message with embedded private comments. Each version can be sent to only those recipients for whom it is intended based on the links created between the private comments and intended recipients in action .

At action the private comments can be embedded in a profile feed. This can be done by noting that the profile is that of a recipient intended to receive a private comment and inserting the private comment in that recipient s profile feed. Similarly recipients not intended to receive a specific private comment may not have that comment embedded into their profile feed.

At action a similar approach can be used as in action private comments intended for specific recipients can be embedded into their individual versions of the feeds and omitted from versions sent to other recipients.

At action a version of a public feed without private comments can be reformatted to remove blank spaces that could remain after removing the private comments.

At action authoring of private comments in a first online social environment can be supported. This can be accomplished by using an application programming interface provided by the online environment or by providing a custom application that interfaces with the first online social environment.

At action a feed item posted in a first online social environment can be cross posted in a second online environment. This can be done by linking the two social environments. For instance Twitter offers an interface that can automatically forward any Twitter posts to Facebook. Conversely cross posting can be done manually. For proprietary online social environments cross posting can be done using custom scripts or interfaces.

At action threaded private conversations can be supported among intended recipients of private comments. For instance in the example given in Ashwini Govindaraman sends a private comment to Al Smith and Ken Brown. Thus whenever Al or Ken responds a threaded private conversation can be instantiated. This private conversation can take place among these three people. If Al responds his message can be sent to Ken and Ashwini. Likewise if Ken responds his message can be sent to Al and Ashwini. Furthermore the message can be associated with the thread corresponding to the original public message so that the threaded private conversation retains its original context. The details of threaded private conversations can be maintained as part of a schema as described for .

At action a request to post a feed item that appreciates content is received. This request can take many forms and is specific to the environment. For instance in a web based environment it may arrive as an HTTP request. Another implementation can use an application as in running on a user computing device to receive a request from a user.

At action the feed item and its intended viewers are identified. This can be done by simply allowing the viewers to be given as a list that precedes the feed item content as in the TO line of an email or it can be entered into a text box intended for this purpose. Viewers can be identified by using their display names by their handles in an environment which provides information feeds by their email addresses by usernames by tags etc. Thus the feed item and its viewers are readily identified and linked with each other.

At action the feed item that appreciates content can be privately posted to the intended viewer s profile on which the content was originally posted. This can be done by noting that the profile is that of a recipient intended to receive the private appreciation and inserting the private appreciation in that recipient s profile feed. Similarly recipients not intended to receive a specific private appreciation may not have that appreciation embedded into their profile feed.

At action the feed item can be created in a second online social environment via using an interface provided specifically for that purpose by the second online social environment. Twitter and Facebook provide interfaces for this purpose and for use in cross posting.

At action the feed item from the first online social environment can be cross posted in a second online social environment. Again environments like Twitter and Facebook provide interfaces for this purpose.

User interface input devices can include a keyboard pointing devices such as a mouse trackball touchpad or graphics tablet a scanner a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems and microphones and other types of input devices. In general use of the term input device is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to input information into computer system .

User interface output devices can include a display subsystem a printer a fax machine or non visual displays such as audio output devices. The display subsystem can include a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display LCD a projection device or some other mechanism for creating a visible image. The display subsystem can also provide a non visual display such as audio output devices. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to output information from computer system to the user or to another machine or computer system.

Storage subsystem stores programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of some or all of the modules and methods described herein. These software modules are generally executed by processor alone or in combination with other processors.

The memory subsystem used in the storage subsystem can include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. A file storage subsystem can provide persistent storage for program and data files and can include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media a CD ROM drive an optical drive or removable media cartridges. The modules implementing the functionality of certain implementations can be stored by file storage subsystem in the storage subsystem or in other machines accessible by the processor.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computer system communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative implementations of the bus subsystem can use multiple busses.

Computer system can be of varying types including a workstation server computing cluster blade server server farm or any other data processing system or computing device. Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in is intended only as one example. Many other configurations of computer system are possible having more or fewer components than the computer system depicted in .

In one implementation a method is described from the perspective of a system receiving messages from user software. The method includes addressing private comments to restricted recipients in a context of a public message. It includes receiving input that represents private comments embedded in a public message during authoring of the public message. It also includes identifying the private comments and restricted recipients of the private comments using identifiers that link the private comments with the restricted recipients. It further includes directing the private comments privately to the restricted recipients when the public message is dispatched.

This method and other implementations of the technology disclosed can include one or more of the following features and or features described in connection with additional methods disclosed. In the interest of conciseness the combinations of features disclosed in this application are not individually enumerated and are not repeated with each base set of features. The reader will understand how features identified in this section can readily be combined with sets of base features identified as implementations such as redactive messaging environment social interface business interface redactive messaging schema etc.

The method further includes providing a user interface application that visually distinguishes the private comments embedded in the public message from public comments which can include a user interface application that displays the private comments and any private responses as one or more supplemental threads. These identifiers when displayed in a user interface application can actively hyper link the private comments to the restricted recipients at various electronic messaging systems. The method further includes using identifiers that include at least tags usernames and handles.

The method further includes formatting the public message without blank spaces where a private comment has been removed whereby it is not apparent to viewers who are not the restricted receipts of the private comments where the private comments were embedded. It also includes forwarding of the public message by the restricted recipients without forwarding the private comments unless an addressee of forwarded public message was also one of the restricted recipients.

Other implementations may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to perform any of the methods described above. Yet another implementation may include a system including memory and one or more processors operable to execute instructions stored in the memory to perform any of the methods described above.

In another implementation a method is described from the perspective of a system receiving messages from user software. The method includes privately commenting on a public feed item posted in an online social environment. The method includes receiving a request to post a feed item that includes private comments authored in response to a public feed item posted in an online social environment. It includes identifying private comments and intended recipients of the private comments using identifiers that link the private comments with their intended recipients. It also includes directing the private comments privately to the intended recipients when the feed item is posted in the online social environment.

This method and other implementations of the technology disclosed can include one or more of the following features and or features described in connection with additional methods disclosed.

The method further includes supporting authoring of the private comments in a first online social environment and cross posting the feed item that includes the private comments in a second online social environment by using identifiers that are specific to the second online social environment. It also includes supporting threaded private conversations with the intended recipients when they respond to the private comments.

The method further includes embedding private content in a profile feed of a user by receiving a feed item that holds private content addressed to a user with a profile feed in the online social environment. It includes that the profile feed is a stream of feed items posted on a user s profile at the online social environment. It also includes linking the private content with the user s profile using identifiers that identify the private content and the user. It further includes privately posting the feed item in the profile feed of the user so that the feed item is viewable only to the user.

The method further includes supporting creation of the feed item that holds the private content in a first online social environment and cross posting the feed item in a user s profile at a second online social environment by using identifiers that are specific to the second online social environment.

The method further includes embedding private comments in the public feed item by receiving input that represents private comments embedded in a public feed item during authoring of the public feed item. It includes identifying the private comments and intended recipients of the private comments by using identifiers that link the private comments with their intended recipients. It also includes directing the private comments privately to the intended recipients when the public feed item is dispatched. It further includes formatting text of the public feed item without blank spaces where a private comment has been removed whereby it is not apparent to viewers who are not the restricted receipts of the private comments where the private comments were embedded.

The method further includes forwarding of the public feed item by the intended recipients of the private comments does not forward the private comments unless an address of forwarded public feed item was also that of an intended recipient of the private comments. It includes identifiers including at least tags usernames and handles. It also includes identifiers that are links to accounts that represent the intended recipients at various online social environments.

Other implementations may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to perform any of the methods described above. Yet another implementation may include a system including memory and one or more processors operable to execute instructions stored in the memory to perform any of the methods described above.

In yet another implementation a method is described from the perspective of a system receiving messages from user software. The method includes privately appreciating content posted in an online social environment. It includes receiving a request to post a feed item that appreciates content posted in an online social environment. It also includes identifying the feed item and intended viewers of the feed item using identifiers that link the feed item with its intended recipients and privately posting the feed item in profile feeds of the intended recipients so that the feed item is viewable only to the intended recipients. It further includes identifiers including at least tags usernames and handles.

This method and other implementations of the technology disclosed can include one or more of the following features and or features described in connection with additional methods disclosed.

This method further includes supporting creation of the feed item in a second online social environment that appreciates content originally posted in a first online social environment and cross posting the feed item in the first online social environment by using identifiers that are specific to the first online social environment. It also includes identifiers including at least tags usernames and handles.

Other implementations may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to perform any of the methods described above. Yet another implementation may include a system including memory and one or more processors operable to execute instructions stored in the memory to perform any of the methods described above.

While the present technology is disclosed by reference to the preferred implementations and examples detailed above it is to be understood that these examples are intended in an illustrative rather than in a limiting sense. It is contemplated that modifications and combinations will readily occur to those skilled in the art which modifications and combinations will be within the spirit of the invention and the scope of the following claims.

