---

title: Custom host errors definition service
abstract: A custom host errors definition service is provided. The custom host errors definition service can create separate endpoints through which different customers can define custom host errors for one or more host computing systems, which might operate in a distributed execution environment. A custom host error definition can specify one or more host computing systems, one or more system components of the one or more host computing systems, one or more attributes, one or more error conditions for the one or more attributes, and one or more actions to perform as a result of the error conditions being satisfied. The error conditions can be, but are not limited to, threshold conditions, component failure conditions, missing hardware conditions, degraded hardware conditions, system firmware failures, incorrect firmware conditions, and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223673&OS=09223673&RS=09223673
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09223673
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130408
---
Services exist that allow customers to receive periodic status updates from computing systems. A given status update might include a snapshot of the current status of one or more computing systems and their components e.g. processors hard drives memory and or fans . These services might expose status update information to customers and additionally tag error conditions such as a fan not spinning fast enough to maintain a specified temperature of a hardware component. In this way a customer can identify problems with computing systems and take steps to resolve the problems.

The definition of an error condition changes frequently at the request of multiple customers such that what one customer considers an error another customer might not. For instance one customer might have a very high tolerance for hard drive sector reallocations while another customer might have a very low tolerance for hard drive sector reallocations. As a result one customer might deem a certain status value as being within normal operating limits whereas another customer might deem the same status value as being indicative of an error condition.

The following detailed description is directed to providing a custom host errors definition service. The custom host errors definition service can create separate endpoints through which different customers can define custom host errors for one or more host computing systems which might operate in a distributed execution environment. A custom host error definition can specify one or more host computing systems one or more system components of the one or more host computing systems one or more attributes one or more error conditions for the one or more attributes and one or more actions to perform as a result of the error conditions being satisfied. The error conditions can be but are not limited to threshold conditions component failure conditions missing hardware conditions degraded hardware conditions system firmware failures incorrect firmware conditions and the like.

It should be appreciated that the subject matter presented herein may be implemented as a computer process a computer controlled apparatus a computing system or an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute on one or more computing devices those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that aspects of the subject matter described herein may be practiced on or in conjunction with other computer system configurations beyond those described herein including multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers handheld computers personal digital assistants e readers cellular telephone devices special purposed hardware devices network appliances and the like. The embodiments described herein may be practiced in distributed execution environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed execution environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and that show by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. The drawings herein are not drawn to scale. Like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures.

The operating environment shown in includes customer computing systems A N which may be referred to herein singularly as the customer computing system or in the plural as the customer computing systems . The customer computing systems may be desktop or laptop personal computers tablet computers smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs e readers game consoles set top boxes server computers or any other computing device capable of accessing the custom host errors definition service . The customer computing systems might access the custom host errors definition service over a suitable data communications network network which may be a wide area network WAN local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN other area network a combination thereof or the like.

The operating environment also includes host computing systems A N which may be referred to herein singularly as the host computing system or in the plural as the host computing systems . The host computing systems may be desktop or laptop personal computers tablet computers smartphones PDAs e readers game consoles set top boxes server computers or any other computing device capable of hosting one or more host applications A N which may be referred to herein singularly as the host application or in the plural as the host applications executing on the host computing systems . The host computing systems also include one or more host components A N which may be referred to herein singularly as the host component or in the plural as the host components . The host components may include hardware components such as but not limited to processors memory optical drives solid state drives hard drives tape drives system boards motherboards backplanes fans video cards power supplies heat sinks cabling chassis peripherals monitors speakers microphones and the like.

The host computing systems are configured to provide information regarding the operational status of one or more of the host components to the custom host errors definition service in the form of host statuses A N which may be referred to herein singularly as the host status or in the plural as the host statuses . The host computing systems may provide the host statuses to the custom host errors definition service on a periodic basis or upon request for example from one or more of the customer computing systems .

The host statuses may provide snapshots of the current statuses of the host computing systems and the associated host components . For example the host status A A might provide the operational status of one or more fans operating within the host computing system A A. The custom host errors definition service can utilize the host status A A to determine whether the operational status of the fans is within specification or if not to flag the fans as being in an error state such as a failed or degraded state. What constitutes an error state for one or more of the host components can be specified in one or more custom host error definitions provided by one or more customers of the custom host errors definition service as will be described in greater detail below.

In some embodiments the host computing systems are provided in a distributed execution environment shown in . A distributed execution environment allows customers to purchase and utilize instances of computing resources such as virtual machine instances on a permanent or as needed basis. A distributed execution environment may offer instances of computing resources for purchase in various configurations. For example a distributed execution environment might offer the virtual machine instances for purchase and use in many different configurations of processor capabilities main memory disk storage operating system other hardware and other software. The distributed execution environment might also offer instances of other types of resources for purchase and use by customers. One or more instances may execute on each of the host computing systems . Additional details regarding an illustrative distributed execution environment will be described in greater detail below with regard to .

As described above customers may have different concerns regarding the operation of one or more of the host computing systems the applications and or the host components . As a result different customers might have different preferences with regard to what constitutes and what does not constitute an error in the operation of one or more of the host computing systems the applications and or the host components . The custom host errors definition service is configured to create and expose endpoints A N which may be referred to herein singularly as the endpoint or in the plural as the endpoints for use by customers to define their own rules for what they consider to be an error.

As used herein an endpoint can be used to indicate a specific network location through which one or more customers can access the custom host errors definition service to define errors to modify previously defined errors to monitor the operational status of one or more of the host computing systems and or to perform other tasks. In some embodiments each of the endpoints is identified and accessible by way of a uniform resource indicator URI . The endpoints may be exposed by the custom host errors definition service operating as a web service using hypertext transfer protocol HTTP HTTP Secure HTTPS and or some other protocol. Moreover the endpoints may be created controlled and modified via one or more application programming interfaces APIs or Web APIs exposed by or for the custom host errors definition service . In the illustrated embodiment the custom host errors definition service exposes the endpoints so that customers can provide error definitions A N which may be referred to herein singularly as the error definition or in the plural as the endpoints for use by the custom host errors definition service to monitor the host statuses for errors.

As used herein an error can be a discrepancy between a computed observed or measured value or condition and a known accepted value or condition. The known accepted value or condition may be an accepted value or condition of a set of accepted values or conditions or a single accepted value or condition. The error conditions can be for example threshold conditions component failure conditions missing hardware conditions degraded hardware conditions system firmware failures incorrect firmware conditions and the like.

In some embodiments the custom host errors service provides one or more default error definitions. The default error definitions can be applied to one or more of the host computing systems if a customer has not provided an error definition or at the request of the customer to utilize the default error definition. A default error definition can be created to meet some desired operation of one or more of the host computing systems . For example a default error definition might be configured so as to achieve best performance most reliability or some other desired operation.

In some embodiments the custom host errors service provides one or more error definition templates. The error definition templates can be utilized by a customer as a starting point from which to create a custom host error definition. Templates may be provided based on certain components to be monitored the desired strictness for monitoring and other criteria.

In response to determining that an error exists based upon an error definition the custom host errors definition service can flag the error. In some embodiments the custom host errors definition service also notifies the customer s that provided the error definition . A notification might be an email text message telephone call or other notification provided by a notification service. It is contemplated that the protocol e.g. hypertext transfer protocol email short message service or the like to be used for notification may be identified via the error definition or by other means. The notification service may be provided as a push service to the customer computing systems and or other devices available to the customer s .

In some embodiments the custom host errors definition service can provide corrective actions to eliminate a detected error to mitigate the error or to otherwise take action in response to detection of the error such a shutting down the host computing system that caused the error. The corrective actions can be defined for example in the error definition or by other means.

The custom host errors definition service can be operated by one or more computing systems not shown that are configured to execute one or more application programs. In the illustrated embodiment the custom host errors definition service can be operated by one or more computing systems that are configured to execute an error definition service application an error detection application and an error response action application .

The error definition service application can provide a web service to create the endpoints and facilitate the input of the error definitions among other tasks such as allowing a previously submitted error definition to be modified. In some embodiments the error definition service application provides a user interface through which the error definitions can be provided. An illustrative example of such an interface is described below with reference to . The error definition service application may cause the error definitions to be stored in an error definition database which may store the error definitions in association with the customer s that provided the error definitions .

The error detection application can access the error definition database to apply the error definitions to the host statuses received from one or more of the host computing systems in order to detect errors in accordance with the error definitions . In response to detecting an error the error detection application can instruct the error response action application to perform a corrective action to eliminate the error to mitigate the error or to otherwise take action in response to detection of the error.

The error definition service application the error detection application the error response action application and the error definition database are each illustrated as separate components of the custom host errors definition service although other implementations that combine one or more of these components are contemplated. The error definition service application the error detection application the error response action application and the error definition database can execute on top of one or more operating systems not shown .

The customer computing systems each can execute an operating system and one or more application programs such as for example a web browser application and an error definition client application . The operating systems are computer programs for controlling the operation of the customer computing systems . According to one embodiment the operating systems include the LINUX operating system. According to another embodiment the operating systems include the WINDOWS operating system from MICROSOFT Corporation. According to further embodiments the operating systems may include the UNIX or SOLARIS operating systems. It should be appreciated that other operating systems may also be utilized by the customer computing systems including mobile operating systems for smartphones and or tablet computer implementations of the customer computing systems . The application programs are executable programs configured to execute on top of the operating systems to provide various functions.

The web browser applications are application programs through which a user customer can access information resources on the web via a network such as the network . In some embodiments the web browser applications allow a user to access a website hosted by or for the customer host errors definition service and accessible via one or more of the endpoints . The website may provide a web based graphical user interface through which a user can create error definitions modify existing error definitions and otherwise interact with the custom host errors definition . An example of such an interface is described below with reference to .

The error definition client applications are application programs through which the customer computing systems can connect to the custom host errors definition service to create and manage error definitions. As such the error definition client applications may be native applications configured to connect to the endpoints as an alternative to a customer using a web interface provided through the web browsers . The error definition client applications might also facilitate account creation account management and or other tasks to be performed via the custom host errors definition service .

The distributed execution environment can provide instances of computing resources on a permanent or an as needed basis. The instances of computing resources provided by the distributed execution environment may include various types of resources such as data processing resources data storage resources data communication resources and the like. The resources may be provided at least in part by the host computing systems . Each type of computing resource may be general purpose or may be available in a number of specific configurations. Each type or configuration of an instance of a computing resource may be available in different sizes such as large resources consisting of many processors large amounts of memory and or large storage capacity and small resources consisting of fewer processors smaller amounts of memory and or smaller storage capacity.

Instances of data processing resources may be available as virtual machine instances in a number of different configurations. The virtual machine instances may be configured to execute applications including Web servers application servers media servers database servers and other types of applications. Instances of data storage resources may include file storage devices block storage devices and the like. Instances of remote desktop sessions might also be utilized in various embodiments presented herein. A remote desktop session may be established utilizing the remote desktop protocol RDP or another similar protocol for viewing and interacting with a graphical user interface provided by another computer. It should be understood that an instance may include any combination of the various types of resources described above.

The instances of computing resources provided by the distributed execution environment are enabled in one implementation by one or more data centers A N which may be referred herein singularly as a data center or in the plural as the data centers . The data centers are facilities utilized to house and operate computer systems and associated components. The data centers typically include redundant and backup power communications cooling and security systems. The data centers might also be located in geographically disparate locations. One illustrative configuration for a data center that implements the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for providing the custom host errors definition service will be described below with regard to .

The customers and other consumers of the distributed execution environment may access the computing resources provided by the data centers over a network such as the network the Internet or any other networking topology known in the art that connects the data centers to remote customers and or other users may be utilized. It should also be appreciated that combinations of such networks might also be utilized.

In one embodiment the instances A N which may be referred herein singularly as the instance or in the plural as the instances are virtual machine instances. As known in the art a virtual machine instance is an instance of a software implementation of a machine e.g. a computer that executes programs like a physical machine. Each of the servers may be configured to execute an instance manager capable of instantiating and managing instances of computing resources. In the case of virtual machine instances for example the instance manager might be a hypervisor or another type of program configured to enable the execution of multiple virtual machine instances on a single server computer for example. It should be appreciated that although the embodiments shown in are described primarily in the context of virtual machine instances other types of instances of computing resources can be utilized with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The data center also includes a server computer F reserved for executing software components for managing the operation of the data center the server computers and the instances . In particular the server computer F might execute the instance launch manager to receive instance launch requests from one or more of the customer computing systems and to instantiate one or more of the instances in response to the requests.

In the example data center an appropriate LAN is utilized to interconnect the server computers A E and the server computer F. The LAN is also connected to the network which was introduced in . It should be appreciated that the network topology illustrated in has been greatly simplified and that many more networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. Appropriate load balancing devices or software modules might also be utilized for balancing a load between each of the data centers A N between each of the server computers A F in each data center and between instances of computing resources purchased by each customer of the distributed execution environment .

It should be appreciated that the data center described in is merely illustrative and that other implementations might be utilized. In particular functionality described herein as being performed by the instance launch manager might be performed by one or more other components. Additionally it should be appreciated that the functionality provided by these components might be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Other implementations should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The host computing systems described in might be implemented as part of the server computers within the data center . The host applications also described in might include the instance manager the instance launch manager and or other applications executing on virtual instances within the distributed computing environment .

Turning now to aspects of a method for providing a custom host errors definition service such as the custom host errors definition service described above with regard to will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein with respect to are implemented as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation of the various components described herein is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in and described herein. These operations may also be performed in parallel or in a different order than those described herein.

For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure the methods disclosed herein are described as being performed by one of more computing systems configured to provide the custom host errors service via execution of one or more software modules such as for example the error definition service application the error detection application and or the error response action application . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software including but not limited to the error definition service application the error detection application and the error response action application . Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation where the custom host errors definition service creates an endpoint such as one of the endpoints for a customer. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the custom host errors definition service receives login credentials for the customer. The login credentials might include a username and password combination and or any other authentication credential so as to provide the customer secure access to the custom host errors definition service via the endpoint. In some embodiments the login credentials are associated with an account established by or on behalf of the customer to access the custom host errors definition service . The account also might be associated with other services such as one or more services provided at least in part by the distributed execution environment .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the custom host errors definition service receives a custom error definition such as one of the error definitions via the endpoint created at operation . The custom error definition can be provided by one or more customers via a web interface provided by the endpoint. An illustrative custom host error definition interface is illustrated in which will now be described.

The custom host error definition interface is provided as merely one example of an interface that might be utilized to facilitate receipt of custom host error definitions by the custom host errors definition service such as described at operation of the method illustrated in . It is contemplated however that other interface types using any user interface elements might be utilized to provide an interface for use by one or more customers to define one or more custom host errors for the custom host errors definition service . As such the illustrated custom host error definition interface is merely provided as an example and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The custom host error definition interface provides multiple drop down menus for use by customers to provide custom error definitions. The illustrated custom host error definition interface has a system selection menu a component selection menu an attribute selection menu an action selection menu and an error condition code entry element . Although the menus are shown as drop down menus other user interface elements such as for example text boxes buttons lists check boxes radio buttons tabs icons and the like may be utilized in alternative implementations.

The system selection menu provides a number of host computing systems that may be selected as the system s for which the custom error definition should be applied. In the illustrated example HOST COMPUTING SYSTEM A has been selected to identify that the host computing system A A is the host computing system for which the custom error definition should be applied.

The component selection menu provides a number of components that may be selected as the component s for which the custom error definition should be applied. In the illustrated example DRIVE A has been selected to identify that a drive component such as a hard drive is the component of the host components A A of the host computing system A A for which the custom error definition should be applied.

The attribute selection menu provides a number of attributes that may be selected as the attribute s for use in creating the custom error condition. The attributes provided in the attribute selection menu may be particular to the selected component. In the illustrated example the attribute selection menu includes a plurality of attributes that are particular to the operation of DRIVE A and more generally to hard drive components. The example attributes include reallocation count uncorrectable sector count throughput performance read error rate write error rate and temperature. These examples are merely illustrative of some types of attributes that may be monitored for a hard drive component. Other components might have different attributes. A processor for example might have attributes relating to clock speed temperature and the like. A solid state drive on the other hand might have attributes similar to a hard drive for read error rates write error rates and temperature for example.

The error condition for an attribute selected via the attribute selection menu can be defined via the error condition code entry element . In some embodiments the error condition code entry element can be a text box configured to receive code for programming the error condition for the selected attribute. The language utilized to code the error condition for the selected attribute might be any existing programming language a proprietary programming language or rules defined through the use of symbols such as a less than sign a less than or equal to sign a greater than or equal to sign and an equal to sign . For example the error condition code for the selected REALLOCATION COUNT attribute might include REALLOCATION COUNT 10 to define any reallocation count that is greater than or equal to the value 10 for DRIVE A on HOST COMPUTING SYSTEM A as being indicative of an error and flag the error accordingly.

The action selection menu provides a number of actions that can be taken by the custom host errors definition service in response to detecting the error defined through the other selection menus and the error condition code entry element . In the illustrated example the action selection menu includes an email notification a text message notification a call notification an auto correct action and a shutdown system action. The notification actions can be used to notify one or more customers that created the custom error definition of the error. The auto correct action can cause the custom host errors definition service to auto correct the error. This might entail having one or more individuals manually replace a defective part such as DRIVE A run one or more diagnostic tests run one or more applications in an attempt to resolve the error and or take other action on behalf of the customer s . The shutdown system action has been selected in the illustrated example and as a result the custom host errors definition service can cause the HOST COMPUTING SYSTEM A to be shutdown. Additional actions may then be taken by or on behalf of the customer s to resolve the error and as such the examples provided above should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning back to after a custom error definition is received such as via the custom host error definition interface the method proceeds from operation to operation where the custom host errors definition service applies the custom error definition for the selected system s . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the custom host errors definition service receives a host status e.g. the host status from the selected system s .

At operation the custom host errors definition service analyses the host status to determine whether an error condition provided in the custom error definition has been met. If not the method proceeds back to operation where the custom host errors definition service receives another host status. If so the method proceeds to operation where the custom host errors definition service processes the error in accordance with the custom error definition. The custom host errors definition service may process the error by taking one or more actions defined in the custom error definition. A default action such as to notify the customer may be taken in lieu of a customer defined action to take in response to the error.

The computer includes a baseboard or motherboard which is a printed circuit board to which a multitude of components or devices may be connected by way of a system bus or other electrical communication paths. In one illustrative embodiment one or more central processing units CPUs operate in conjunction with a chipset . The CPUs may be standard programmable processors that perform arithmetic and logical operations necessary for the operation of the computer .

The CPUs perform operations by transitioning from one discrete physical state to the next through the manipulation of switching elements that differentiate between and change these states. Switching elements may generally include electronic circuits that maintain one of two binary states such as flip flops and electronic circuits that provide an output state based on the logical combination of the states of one or more other switching elements such as logic gates. These basic switching elements may be combined to create more complex logic circuits including registers adders subtractors arithmetic logic units floating point units and the like.

The chipset provides an interface between the CPUs and the remainder of the components and devices on the baseboard . The chipset may provide an interface to a random access memory RAM used as the main memory in the computer . The chipset may further provide an interface to a computer readable storage medium such as a read only memory ROM or non volatile RAM NVRAM for storing basic routines that help to startup the computer and to transfer information between the various components and devices. The ROM or NVRAM may also store other software components necessary for the operation of the computer in accordance with the embodiments described herein.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computing devices and computer systems through a network such as the network or the local area network . The chipset may include functionality for providing network connectivity through a network interface controller NIC such as a gigabit Ethernet adapter. The NIC is capable of connecting the computer to other computing devices over the network . It should be appreciated that multiple NICs may be present in the computer connecting the computer to other types of networks and remote computer systems.

The computer may be connected to a mass storage device that provides non volatile storage for the computer. The mass storage device may store system programs application programs other program modules and data which have been described in greater detail herein. The mass storage device may be connected to the computer through a storage controller connected to the chipset . The mass storage device may consist of one or more physical storage units. The storage controller may interface with the physical storage units through a serial attached SCSI SAS interface a serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface a fiber channel FC interface or other type of interface for physically connecting and transferring data between computers and physical storage units.

The computer may store data on the mass storage device by transforming the physical state of the physical storage units to reflect the information being stored. The specific transformation of physical state may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the physical storage units whether the mass storage device is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like.

For example the computer may store information to the mass storage device by issuing instructions through the storage controller to alter the magnetic characteristics of a particular location within a magnetic disk drive unit the reflective or refractive characteristics of a particular location in an optical storage unit or the electrical characteristics of a particular capacitor transistor or other discrete component in a solid state storage unit. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this description. The computer may further read information from the mass storage device by detecting the physical states or characteristics of one or more particular locations within the physical storage units.

In addition to the mass storage device described above the computer may have access to other computer readable storage media to store and retrieve information such as program modules data structures or other data. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable storage media can be any available media that provides for the storage of non transitory data and that may be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology compact disc ROM CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD high definition DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information in a non transitory fashion.

The mass storage device may store an operating system such as the operating system utilized to control the operation of the computer . According to one embodiment the operating system comprises the LINUX operating system. According to another embodiment the operating system comprises the WINDOWS SERVER operating system from MICROSOFT Corporation. According to further embodiments the operating system may comprise the UNIX or SOLARIS operating systems. It should be appreciated that other operating systems may also be utilized. The mass storage device may store other system or application programs and data utilized by the computer such as the error definition client application the web browser the error response action application the error detection application the error definition service application the error definition database and or any of the other software components and data described herein above. The mass storage device might also store other programs and data not specifically identified herein.

In one embodiment the mass storage device or other computer readable storage media is encoded with computer executable instructions which when loaded into the computer transforms the computer from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computer capable of implementing the embodiments described herein. These computer executable instructions transform the computer by specifying how the CPUs transition between states as described above. According to one embodiment the computer has access to computer readable storage media storing computer executable instructions which when executed by the computer perform the method described above with regard to and to present a user interface such as the custom host error definition interface described above with regard to .

The computer may also include one or more input output controllers for receiving and processing input from a number of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a touchpad a touch screen an electronic stylus or other type of input device. Similarly the input output controller may provide output to a display such as a computer monitor a flat panel display a digital projector a printer a plotter or other type of output device. It will be appreciated that the computer may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for providing a custom host errors definition service have been presented herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

