---

title: Device operations based on configurable input sequences
abstract: An electronic device may be configured to identify configuration information associated with input sequences. In some examples, the configuration information may enable an association between the input sequences and operations capable of being performed by the electronic device. Additionally, in some aspects, the electronic device may be configured to receive biometric inputs and determine an operation to be performed based at least in part on the received biometric inputs and the association. Further, the electronic device may enable performance of the determined operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646438&OS=09646438&RS=09646438
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09646438
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130923
---
User devices can operate in various operating modes. Users who wish to interact with such devices may do so from these various operating modes of the device including but not limited to a lock screen a home screen with no application active and or an active application. It is often the case that users execute the same sequences of actions repetitively throughout the day. For instance a user who often utilizes a particular application may typically have to unlock the mobile device navigate through the mobile device to find the application and launch the application each time he wishes to interact with the application. The delay in access and repetitive nature of this method can be frustrating for the user. Additionally with mobile devices being shared between multiple users the actions or sequences of actions most often repeated can change with each user. Conventional attempts to solve these problems have been ineffective and or have undesirable side effects or other drawbacks.

In the following description various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Some or all of the process described may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with specific computer executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program including a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

Techniques described herein are directed to systems and methods to enable a user of an electronic device to utilize biometric input to perform various user actions. Such user actions may include but are not limited to launching an application performing an action within the operating system of the electronic device and performing an action within an application running on the electronic device to name a few. More specifically user actions include but are not limited to calling a contact composing an email turning the volume of the device up or down muting the device opening a new document increasing or decreasing font size launching a social media website or application and posting the location of the user to a social media web site to name a few. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art any suitable action or series of actions that may be taken by the user may be utilized by a biometric recognition service.

As used herein a lock screen is a graphical user interface mode used by various operating systems to regulate immediate access to a device by requiring that the user perform a certain action in order to receive access. The home screen and application screen are further examples of graphical user interface modes. An operating system as used herein refers to a collection of software that manages computer hardware resources and provides common service for computer programs. An application as used herein is a software program that requires an operating system to function. Typically the operating system acts as an intermediary between the application and the computer hardware.

As used herein the term biometric input includes but is not limited to fingerprint scans retina scans or any suitable biometric data which enables a user to be uniquely identified within a degree of confidence. Though fingerprints are used herein as an illustrative example any suitable biometric input may be used including but not limited to data corresponding to a retina iris face or hand. Additionally biometric input may correspond to data generated by transducer sampling of biological phenomena and or to a characterizing biometric signature based on such data.

Though a fingerprint scanner is used herein for illustrative purposes any suitable biometric input device capable of communicating biometric information to an electronic device may be utilized. These biometric input devices may include but are not limited to capacitive sensors optical sensors thermal sensors pressure sensors RF sensors and ultrasonic sensors to name a few. The fingerprint scanner used in following examples may be a static or swiping fingerprint scanner. Additionally the fingerprint scanner may be an internal component of the device or an external component communicating with the device. Fingerprint inputs as used herein refer to data generated by a biometric scanner corresponding to a human fingerprint.

As part of a system or method for utilizing a biometric recognition service to perform user actions a user may first access configuration settings to create associations between biometric inputs and a user action. For instance the user may be presented with an interface for which the user may scan each of his fingers and assign a unique biometric identifier to the each fingerprint. Alternatively the user may scan each finger and allow the biometric recognition service to automatically assign unique biometric identifiers to each fingerprint scan. As an example perhaps the user scans in each finger of his right hand. The user may specify or the system may automatically assign the numbers one through five sequentially with the user s thumb assigned the number 1 and the pinkie finger assigned the number 5. The unique biometric identifier assignments and fingerprint scans may be stored for future use.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the user may be presented with the ability to enter in a combination of fingerprint scans and an associated action. For instance perhaps the user may be prompted for a fingerprint combination. The user may sequentially enter a scan of each his thumb index and middle fingers. The biometric recognition service receiving the fingerprint combination compares each scan to the previously stored scans. Through these comparisons the biometric recognition service is able to ascertain the proper biometric identifier for each scan and thus the corresponding numerical combination. In accordance with the example assignment above the user s input may be determined to correspond to the combination 1 2 3. 

In accordance with at least one embodiment the user having entered a combination of fingerprints may be presented with the ability to specify a user action to associate with the combination. For instance the user may select from a drop down menu an action from predefined user actions. Additionally the user may be presented with the ability to select a recording mode via the electronic device. While recording the user may perform the desired action or sequence of actions while the biometric recognition service records the one or more user actions. Once the one or more user actions are recorded the biometric recognition service may convert the recorded actions into computer commands. The corresponding computer commands may then be associated with the fingerprint combination and stored in a mapping or association. In one example a table may be used for the mapping also referred to herein as an association though the mapping may be stored in any suitable container or database capable of storing relationships between a sequence of biometric identifiers and a sequence of one or more of commands.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the user may enter a fingerprint combination by sequentially scanning the fingers. Upon receipt of the sequence the biometric recognition service may convert the received fingerprint scans into the appropriate numerical combination by matching the received fingerprint scans to stored fingerprint scans associated with particular biometric identifiers as described above. The fingerprint service may then retrieve the appropriate one or more computer commands by using the numerical combination to perform a search on the mapping. Once the appropriate command is retrieved the biometric recognition service may then cause the electronic device to perform the determined commands. Thus in accordance with embodiments systems and methods are provided for enabling a user to perform user actions utilizing fingerprint scan combinations.

Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numerals represent like parts illustrates an environment for implementing features of an example biometric recognition service in accordance with at least one embodiment. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art any suitable device capable of receiving biometric input may be utilized. In this example a cell phone laptop and a tablet PC are used for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure. In the embodiment shown in a user may scan individual fingers of his hand . The individual fingers may each be assigned a biometric identifier. In the example shown the number one through five may be sequentially assigned from thumb to pinkie.

In at least one example the user may utilize the cell phone to enter the combination 1 2 4 3 by scanning the corresponding fingerprints using a fingerprint scanner a component of the cell phone . Upon receipt of the combination the command associated with calling a contact associated with the name Mom may be retrieved and the phone call may be initiated.

In a further example the user may utilize the laptop to enter the combination 1 2 using a fingerprint scanner a component of the laptop . The combination 1 2 may be determined to be associated with the action of composing an email . Once the action is determined the biometric recognition service may cause the operating system of the laptop to execute commands causing the operating system to launch the email application and subsequently launch a window within the application for composing an email .

In another example the electronic device utilized may be a tablet PC . The user may utilize a fingerprint scanner a component of the tablet PC to input a combination of fingerprint scans. In the example depicted in the user may enter the combination 1 3 2 by scanning the appropriate fingers. The biometric recognition service may determine that the action corresponding to the combination 1 3 2 is an interaction with an application the application running on the tablet PC . One such interaction may be a buy now feature of an online shopping application.

Though a cell phone a laptop and a tablet PC are used for illustrative purposes the user may enter various combinations of his fingerprints utilizing any suitable device capable of receiving fingerprint inputs.

As an example depicts aspects of elements that may be present in a computer device and or system configured to implement a method and or process in accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure. The subsystems shown in are interconnected via a system bus . Additional subsystems include a printer a keyboard a fingerprint scanner and a monitor which is coupled to a display adapter . Peripherals and input output I O devices which couple to an I O controller can be connected to the computer system by any suitable number of means known in the art such as a serial port . The computer system may be made up of one or many computers. The serial port or an external interface can be utilized to connect the computer device to further devices and or systems not shown in including a wide area network such as the Internet a mouse input device and or a scanner.

The interconnection via the system bus allows one or more processors to communicate with each subsystem and to control the execution of instructions that may be stored in a system memory and or a fixed disk as well as the exchange of information between subsystems. The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. The system memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of computing device the system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The computing device may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to a fixed disk including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the system memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a method is enabled for executing user actions utilizing fingerprint scans inputs. For example the biometric recognition service may be a component of one of the electronic devices discussed above in connection with . User selections may be input by the user via one of the aforementioned various biometric input devices. The user may register with the biometric recognition service via an application programming interface . The registration manager a component of the biometric recognition service may be configured to receive such registration information. The registration manager may be responsible for creating and maintaining user profiles that are stored in the user profile data store or any other data store appropriate for the storage of such information. Additionally the registration service may be responsible for receiving registration information from various applications further discussed below in .

In accordance with at least one embodiment configuration information may be received by the biometric recognition service via an application programming interface . Configuration information may include individual fingerprint scans used as baseline fingerprint scans. For instance a user may scan each finger on his right hand from thumb to pinkie Additionally the user may manually assign an identifier to each finger. In one example the user may assign the number 1 to his thumb continuing sequentially until all five fingers are associated with a corresponding number. The configuration module may be configured to receive such information. On receipt of the baseline scans if the user has not manually assigned identifiers to the baseline fingerprint scans the configuration module may automatically assign such identifiers. The configuration module may store the baseline fingerprint scans in the user profile associated with the user and stored in the user profile data store a configuration data store or any other data store internal or external to the biometric recognition service capable of storing such information.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the user may enter command configuration information by manually assigning a command offered say from a drop down menu for example to a combination of one or more biometric identifiers. For instance the drop down menu may enable the user to select launch a web browser. The user may select this command and enter in the combination 1 2 3 indicating that the user wishes to scan his thumb index and middle fingers in sequence to launch a web browser on the electronic device. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art various commands may be offered via the drop down menu and would depend on the electronic device and the applications available on the electronic device. Once a command is selected and a combination entered an association request may be sent to the biometric recognition service and subsequently received by the configuration manager . The association request may contain at least the combination and selected command. The configuration manager may communicate the selected command to the input conversion module a component of the biometric recognition service . The input conversion module may be responsible for converting a selected command into corresponding one or more device commands to be used by the electronic device to execute the action.

In accordance with at least one embodiment subsequent to entering a combination the user may enter a recording mode via the electronic device. The initiation of the recording mode may send an indication to the biometric recognition service via an application programming interface . The recording module a component of the biometric recognition service may be configured to document user actions taken while the user is in recording mode. For instance the user may select the recording mode. The recording module receiving the indication of the initiation of record mode may begin monitoring various actions taken by the user via the electronic device. In one example the user may launch his contacts application on his smart phone navigate to a contact named Bob Sanders and initiate a phone call to Bob. The corresponding actions may be documented by the recording module . The user may make a selection to indicate the completion of recording mode. This selection may cause an indication that recording is complete to be received by the recording module causing the recording module to cease its monitoring of user actions. Additionally the selection may cause an association request to be received by the configuration module . Upon completion of the recording the recording module may communicate the user actions to the input conversion module . The input conversion module may convert the recorded user actions into corresponding device commands to be executed on the electronic device.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the input conversion module upon completion of command conversion may communicate the device commands to the configuration module . The configuration module upon reception of the converted commands may cause an association to be created mapping the combination received via the corresponding association request to the converted commands. This mapping may be stored in the user profile associated with the user the configuration data store or any other suitable data store.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a user entering a series of fingerprint scans as a combination may enter each scan within a configurable threshold of time. For instance when the user commences the first scan the scan may cause an indication to be sent to the timing module a component of the biometric recognition service . The timing module may be responsible for determining the completion of a user input if the user does not make another input within a threshold period of time. For instance consider the case in which the threshold time is set to 3 seconds. The user upon scanning a first finger may need to scan a second finger within 3 seconds in order for the second finger scan to be included in the combination. If the 3 second threshold elapses then the scan of the first finger may be determined to be the whole of the combination. The timing threshold may be configured by the user via selection of preferences. These preferences may be communicated to the biometric recognition service and received by the configuration manager to be stored in the user profile associated with the user. Future combination entries may be restrained by the timing module by utilizing the current timing threshold stored in the user profile.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a user may enter in a configured combination of fingerprint scans. Subsequently a command execution request may be sent to the biometric recognition service via an application programming interface and received by the command execution manager a component of the biometric recognition service . The command execution manager may be responsible for querying the configuration module or searching the mapping to determine what corresponding commands to execute on the electronic device. Upon retrieving the device commands associated with the combination indicated in the command execution request the command execution module may cause the device commands to be executed on the electronic device.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the user may indicate a focus for the command. For instance when making selections for configuration options associated with combinations of fingerprint inputs and various user actions the user may further indicate a particular focus to associate with the combination. In other words the user may define the focus as being operating system lock screen or a particular application available on the electronic device. As a result the user may intentionally assign the same combination to more than one corresponding action. For instance a combination of 1 may launch a window to compose an email if initiated from the lock screen. The same combination may launch a social media application if initiated from the operating system of the device. Lastly the same combination may initiate a purchase process if initiated via a shopping application. The corresponding focus associated with the combination may be received by the configuration manager as a part of the association request and associated with the combination and corresponding device commands as described above. Additionally the focus of the user may be indicated in the command execution request received by the command execution manager and utilized in determining what device commands to execute.

In this example if the input does not correspond to a configured command then biometric recognition service may cause the user to be prompted for biometric input at . Steps may be repeated until the input is determined to be a recognized command at .

Following a determination that the input is a recognized command at the biometric recognition service may notify the application of the received input at . The biometric recognition service may then send the application the corresponding input information at .

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the disclosure to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood within the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to each be present.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the disclosure. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

