---

title: Self-defense ornamental bracelet
abstract: An arm bracelet is provided for containing a retrievable blade around a forearm between wrist and elbow. The bracelet includes first and second bands, a network, bridges and a housing. The bands wrap around and attach to the forearm. The first band is disposed adjacent the wrist. The second band is disposed adjacent the elbow. The network connects the first and second bands together along the forearm. The bridges detachably extend from the first and second band. Each bridge includes a plurality of shapes. Each shape is able to form a grip. The housing for contains a sheath that holds a knife with a handle and the blade. The handle superficially resembles the shape to aid concealment of the knife.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08955726&OS=08955726&RS=08955726
owner: 
number: 08955726
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130211
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to ornamental bracelets that include self defense attachments. In particular this invention relates to arm bracelets that incorporate concealed daggers for defending against attackers.

In an effort to manage criminal activity municipal administrators of metropolitan areas often impose restrictions on civilians that reside and or labor in such crowded urban environments. Such regulations can include firearms e.g. pistols chemical aerosols e.g. pepper spray and electroshock discharge instruments e.g. stun guns in an effort frequently vain to curtail human violence. In addition such devices can be clumsy to carry and or conceal and may require maintenance or non intuitive instruction to operate successfully for disabling or warding off an attacker.

Conventional self defense devices yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular exemplary embodiments provide an arm bracelet for containing a retrievable blade around a forearm between wrist and elbow. The bracelet includes first and second bands a network bridges and a housing. The bands wrap around and attach to the forearm. The first band is disposed adjacent the wrist. The second band is disposed adjacent the elbow. The network connects the first and second bands together along the forearm.

The bridges detachably extend from the first and second band. Each bridge includes a plurality of shapes. Each shape is able to form a grip. The housing contains a sheath that holds a knife with a handle and the blade. The handle superficially resembles the shape to aid concealment of the knife. Various exemplary embodiments provide uniform shapes that have a regular profile with alternating orientations.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

An exemplary dimension for arm length distance can be provided as about eight inches 8 for purposes of description. The thickness of the arm of a typical wearer of the exemplary bracelet varies based on physical build and other physiological factors. The arc length of the wrist band can be described as extending between five inches and seven inches 5 7 . Similarly the arc length of the elbow band can be estimated as between six and ten inches 6 10 .

The bands and can be formed from a thick flexible material such as leather or vinyl. The cords can be elastic or non elastic string type material or else can constitute a web such as fishnet fabric or decorative cloth. The cords can be attached to the bands and either by detachable fasteners such as snap buttons or permanently affixed thereto. The button snaps for connecting together the ends of the bands and can be metal or rigid plastic and multiple sets of these can be arranged for sundry extents of overlap depending on arm thickness.

A plurality of regular i.e. uniform pattern shapes extend from the wrist band to the elbow band . The shapes which are depicted as rounded rectangles connect to each other by chain links . The shapes can comprise carbon fiber composite or a rigid plastic. The rectangles are arranged in the displayed embodiment as alternating width and length along the distance between the bands and . These alternations relate to longitudinal and transverse directions relative to the forearm. The chains can incorporate twist link configuration to reduce overall thickness and can be composed of metal or rigid plastic.

A set of these shapes extending along the arm represent a bridge . The shapes at the extremities of the bridge can include mechanisms for removable attachment to their respective bands and such as Velcro strips not shown with appropriate counterpart strips on those bands secured by adhesive e.g. glue to their respective surfaces.

Alternative mechanisms for such attachment between the shapes and their bands can be contemplated without departing from the scope of the claims such as button snaps latches and other techniques. Some of the bridges can be substituted by first and second braces and in which one of the shapes at the extremities remains unconnected by chain to the remainder but rather represents a grip or handle. The braces preferably include a pike or dagger or alternative thrust edge as described subsequently in greater particularity.

The second brace constitutes a housing with an opening and a wrist drawn pike having a narrowed hilt . The housing includes a scabbard that mounts to a concatenation of shapes terminating at the wrist end with the opening . The dagger includes a handle that closely resembles one of the shapes and a blade which can be inserted into the scabbard through the opening . The scabbard can have an interior cavity contoured to conform to the blade . The hilt incorporates a relatively smooth i.e. unsharpened perimeter to enable being held between the middle and ring fingers at the knuckles.

A detail elevation view reveals an A A section of the dirk with the handle and the blade with wedge contour and having a double edge rhombus cross section having quadrilateral symmetry for this example. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the blades and can taper in linear form or alternate shape such as ogive depending on preference. An ogive shape resembles a truncated parabola. Moreover the cross section can constitute a variety of forms. Knife blades can assume commonly available forms such as pen knife salmon knife punch blade and clip point blade.

The handles and as well as the shapes can include indentations to reduce weight and or provide decorative distraction. As shown the handles and can constitute the same general contour as the shapes with alternating orientations such as on the bridges .

Alternatively the indentations can penetrate through the handle and to render the interior hollow inside the outer perimeter or outline of the handle and . Either of these visual and geometric configurations can be similarly extended to the shapes for greater symmetry and uniformity of the bridges to the handles and . The shapes can have alternating aspect ratios between the longitudinal and transverse directions.

The sheaths handles and blades can be composed of carbon fiber composite or rigid plastic e.g. acetals amino resins phenolics polyamids to reduce detection by registering instruments for reflected magnetic pulse. Carbon fiber has a density of 1.76 g cm. Assuming a brace of about seven inches 7 in length and a scabbard of about one half inch in width and of three eighths inch in thickness such an instrument could be expected to have a mass of 35 grams to 40 grams roughly 1 oz 1.5 oz . Alternatively the blade can comprise a comparatively rigid metal such as steel assuming detection by dynamic electromagnetic fields is not of concern.

The left image depicts the palm of the right hand with the second brace visible. The right image depicts the back of the right hand with the first brace visible. The handle has a length parallel to the longitudinal direction along the forearm . The handle has a length parallel to the transverse direction around the forearm .

The left hand not shown can retrieve the elbow drawn dagger from the first brace by reaching around the body and grabbing the handle resembling one of the shapes from the scabbard and pulling upward towards the shoulder with the blade extending from the heel of the left hand. Alternatively with both palms facing each other the left hand can retrieve the wrist drawn pike from the second brace by grabbing the handle from the scabbard by pulling away from the wrist with the blade extending from between the middle and ring fingers near the knuckles. In this manner depending on posture and hand position either blade can be retrieved for surprise self defense. The pikes on both left and right forearms near the wrists can be retrieved concurrently by their opposite hands.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

