---

title: Methods and apparatus to measure an audience of an online media service
abstract: Methods, apparatus, systems and articles of manufacture are disclosed to measure an audience of an online media service. An example method includes requesting an access history associated with a subscriber of an online media service using a programming interface for the online media service; and determining ratings information using the access history and demographic information corresponding to the subscriber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451323&OS=09451323&RS=09451323
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 09451323
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131224
---
This disclosure relates generally to audience measurement and more particularly to measuring an audience of an online media service.

Subscribers to a particular media provider or online media service may access media through any of a plurality of electronic devices e.g. televisions smartphones tablets computers radios etc. . Traditionally subscribers have accessed media on media renderers e.g. televisions via broadcast and or subscriptions to a particular media provider e.g. cable television satellite television etc. . Recently web services e.g. Netflix Hulu YouTube etc. have enabled access to media on demand through application programming interfaces API stored on electronic devices e.g. televisions set top boxes smartphones game consoles etc. and or web APIs via the Internet.

Wherever appropriate the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawing s and accompanying written description to refer to the same or like parts.

Media providers are increasingly using web services as a vehicle for distributing media to subscribers. An online media service e.g. Netflix YouTube etc. typically includes an application programming interface API or Web API that is accessed via Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and executed on a remote system hosting the requested services. Subscribers to an online media service may access the online media service via API s and or server s to view media on demand. The online media service may monitor and or store a subscriber s access history in a server operated by the online media service. As used herein a subscriber may be any person having access to an account associated with an online media service.

Example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein involve requesting an access history associated with a subscriber of an online media service using a programming interface for the online media service and determining ratings information using the access history. Examples disclosed herein further involve obtaining an identification of a subscriber corresponding to an online media service and obtaining permission from the subscriber to access the access history.

The example online media monitor of monitors media requested via online media services associated with the media distributor s . An audience measurement entity e.g. The Nielsen Company LLC US may be a proprietor of the example online media monitor . The monitored media may be presented in an example environment . The example media environment may be a home e.g. a panelist home or a business e.g. a restaurant a bar a break room etc. . The example media environment of includes an example media presentation device e.g. a television a smart television etc. an example set top box e.g. a digital video record DVR a service provider receiver etc. an example game console e.g. Microsoft Xbox Sony PlayStation Nintendo WHO etc. an example electronic device e.g. a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a smartphone etc. and an example site meter e.g. a personal people meter a portable meter an on device meter ODM etc. . The example site meter identifies media presented via the example media presentation device and or the example electronic device e.g. via a media application . The example devices and or of the example media environment of facilitate presentation of media. In some examples media is downloaded and or streamed via the example network e.g. the Internet and or a network in communication with the Internet . In some examples media is ordered from the media distributor s via requests from the example devices and or and physically delivered to a subscriber e.g. on a DVD on a Blu Ray disc on flash memory or on any other type of physical storage device capable of storing media .

In the illustrated example of a subscriber requests media from the media distributor s via corresponding media applications e.g. a Netflix application a YouTube application a Hulu application etc. executing on one of the example devices and or . The example media application sends a request to a corresponding media distributor via the network requesting the media distributor to provide specified media data to the one or more device s and or and or a physical address of the media environment .

The example media distributor e.g. a proprietor of an online media service such as Netflix YouTube Hulu etc. of include an example media delivery API an example subscriber information API and an example media distribution server . In response to receiving a request to electronically send media to one or more of the example devices and or the media delivery API facilitates transmission of media file s including the requested media from the media distribution server to the one or more device s and or . In some such examples the subscriber information API confirms that the requesting device s and or are authorized to receive and or present the requested media e.g. confirms username and or password entered via the requesting device services payment e.g. charges a credit card and or performs other subscriber verification and or billing processes prior to sending the media files. In examples disclosed herein the subscriber information API facilitates access to subscriber information e.g. name age and or other demographics access history information etc. that is stored and or maintained by the media distribution server . For example a subscriber or other entity may access a subscriber profile an access history etc. stored on the media distribution server via the subscriber information API . An example access history may include information associated with media identified by title episode season etc. that was requested by a subscriber identified by a username given name etc. via one or more the devices and or . In some examples the access history information includes information associated with physical media e.g. a DVD video a Blu ray video an audio CD etc. that was provided e.g. shipped by mail by courier or by other physical transportation from the media distributor s to a physical location associated with the media environment e.g. a location identified by a street address .

In the illustrated example of the online media monitor determines ratings of media presented via the media distributor s . The example online media monitor of retrieves access history information via the subscriber information API to determine the ratings. For example the online media monitor may determine a number of subscriber accounts indicating that media was presented via one or more of the media distributor s during a particular period of time e.g. during a calendar month week day etc. . In some examples the online media monitor requests permission from subscribers to access the access history of the subscriber s account. In some examples the online media monitor retrieves subscriber information e.g. name demographics location information etc. via the subscriber information API . In some examples the online media monitor determines ratings based on physical media in addition to or as an alternative to determining ratings based on media electronically transmitted to the devices and or via the network .

In some examples the site meter of detects media by capturing and or detecting media identification information e.g. watermarks signatures codes etc. associated with the presented media and embedded in audio and or video of the media. Audio watermarking is a technique used to identify media such as television broadcasts radio broadcasts advertisements television and or radio downloaded media streaming media prepackaged media etc. Existing audio watermarking techniques identify media by embedding one or more audio codes e.g. one or more watermarks such as media identifying information and or an identifier that may be mapped to media identifying information into an audio and or video component. In some examples the audio or video component is selected to have a signal characteristic sufficient to hide the watermark. As used herein the terms code or watermark are used interchangeably and are defined to mean any identification information e.g. an identifier that may be inserted or embedded in the audio or video of media e.g. a program or advertisement for the purpose of identifying the media or for another purpose such as tuning e.g. a packet identifying header . As used herein media refers to audio and or visual still or moving content and or advertisements. To identify watermarked media the watermark s are extracted and used to access a table of reference watermarks that are mapped to media identifying information.

In some examples upon detection of media from an online media service e.g. via a watermark signature and or code identifying the online media service the example site meter sends a notification to the online media monitor . For example the site meter may capture media identification information from an image e.g. a trademark or logo video and or audio corresponding to a particular online media service that is presented via the device s and or e.g. the site meter identifies a red Netflix logo when a Netflix application is presented via the media presentation device and communicate with the online media monitor via the network to indicate the device s and or are accessing media from one or more of the media distributor s . In some examples the site meter determines that captured media identification information is associated with an online media service if the site meter determines that the media identification information is not associated with media received from another type of service e.g. broadcast service and or satellite service .

The example information retriever of retrieves information from APIs of media distributor s . In the illustrated example of the information retriever communicates with the media delivery API s and or the subscriber information API s of one or more of the media distributor s via the network of . In some examples the information retriever communicates e.g. via online media service applications with one or more media presentation devices e.g. the devices and or of . In some examples the information retriever communicates with one or more site meter s e.g. the site meter of in one or more media presentation environment s .

In some examples the example information retriever of requests panelist permission for subscribers via an online media service application executing on a device e.g. any of the device s etc. . In the illustrated example panelist registration data may be received from a subscriber via a user interface of the media device. For example in response to determining that an online media service is providing a subscriber with media e.g. via a notification from the media delivery API the information retriever of the illustrated example requests the subscriber to authorize access to the corresponding subscriber information e.g. demographics etc. and or access history information via the subscriber information API . In some examples if access history information received from the subscriber information API is associated with a subscriber that is not in the credential database e.g. a subscriber that has not already authorized access for the data the credential manager instructs the information retriever to request and or retrieve subscriber permission to access the subscriber information. In some examples the subscriber information API of the media distributor facilitates requesting and or receiving subscriber permission to access and or collect subscriber information and access history information in response to instructions or requests from the online media monitor . In some examples when a subscriber requests and or installs a site meter e.g. the site meter the subscriber may provide the appropriate permissions to monitor and or access media access history of the online media service. In some examples the information retriever retrieves demographics information of a subscriber from a panelist database of an audience measurement entity that identifies the subscriber and their demographics. Additionally or alternatively the demographic information may be obtained from the user in any other way e.g. via a telephone interview by having the user complete an online survey etc. . Additionally or alternatively panelists may be contacted and or enlisted using any desired methodology e.g. random selection statistical selection phone solicitations Internet advertisements surveys advertisements in shopping malls product packaging etc. .

The example information retriever of facilitates retrieval of information that is to be used to generate ratings associated with media presented via online media services. In some examples the credential manager of provides the information retriever with subscriber identification information e.g. a username a last name a subscriber identifier ID etc. stored in the credential database to request information for a particular subscriber. For example the credential database may store subscriber IDs for particular online media services and or information indicating whether a subscriber has authorized permission to access their subscriber information e.g. profile information demographics access history etc. . In some examples the information retriever retrieves information from a subscriber information API in response to receiving instructions from a user of the online media monitor and or based on settings of the online media monitor to periodically or aperiodically retrieve information for particular subscribers. In some examples the information retriever of retrieves information e.g. an access history from a subscriber information API in response to receiving a notification from a site monitor e.g. the site monitor associated with a particular subscriber ID. In some such examples the site meter notifies the online media monitor that media from an online media service is being presented in a media environment. In some examples the information retriever requests information from the subscriber information API using a randomly selected subscriber ID.

The example credential manager of manages credentials e.g. subscriber IDs usernames first and last names etc. of subscribers in the credential database . In the illustrated example the credential manager tracks subscriber IDs demographics authorizations permissions etc. In some examples the credential database stores subscriber information associated with subscribers that have authorized the online media monitor to access the subscriber information and or access history information of the subscribers. Accordingly in the illustrated example the credential manager adds new subscriber information to the credential database when authorized subscriber information is not already included in the credential database .

In some examples the credential database stores information from a subscriber information file such as the subscriber information file of that is retrieved by the information retriever from the subscriber information API . The example subscriber information file of includes a subscriber ID a subscriber s first name and last name a username e.g. nickname subscriber settings e.g. can instant watch subscriber preferences e.g. preferred format etc. In the illustrated example of the example subscriber information file includes a first link to a subscriber access queue that identifies media that the subscriber has selected for access and a second link to a subscriber access history that identifies media that the subscriber has requested and or viewed. In some examples the subscriber information file includes demographic information such as age race sex residence address etc.

The example media access history manager of manages access history information retrieved by the information retriever . The example media access history manager of the illustrated example manages the access history information using the media access history database . The example media access history database stores access history information retrieved by the information retriever . In some examples the media access history manager sorts and or organizes the media access history database based on media online media service e.g. Netflix Hulu YouTube etc. chronological order subscriber location demographics media delivery type e.g. physical electronic etc. etc.

In the example of the information retriever retrieves access history files such as the access history file of from the subscriber information API . In some examples the information retriever uses an access history link e.g. the second link of from a subscriber information file. The example media access history manager manages the media access history database using the information from the access history file . The example access history file includes an example universal resource locator URL an example number results 404 example settings e.g. start index results per page etc. and example access history item s . In some examples a most recent media item requested and or viewed e.g. the media item 408 is provided. In some examples the access history information includes playback information of an example media item e.g. the media item 408 . In some examples the playback information includes a resume location indicating a point of the media file at which the media presentation is to resume upon execution of the media file. In some examples the access history information file identifies a media delivery type indicating whether the media was electronically provided to subscribers provided as physical media to subscribers and or provided via another delivery vehicle or technology. In some examples the access history information file includes a device identifier that identifies which device e.g. which of the device s and or requested and or presented the media.

In some examples the media access history manager instructs the information retriever to retrieve access history information of one or more subscribers from the subscriber information API . In some such examples the media access history manager instructs the information retriever based on settings of the online media monitor . For example the media access history manager may identify media data representative of media that has not yet been stored in the media access history database e.g. a particular movie such as Justice League Crisis on Two Earths was identified for the first time . In such examples the media access history manager may instruct the information retriever to request access history information to identify whether other subscribers e.g. subscribers identified in the credential database have requested and or viewed the same media.

The example ratings generator of determines ratings information based on the access history information stored in the media access history database using any suitable technique. In some examples the ratings generator determines ratings for media based on access history from a specific time period. In some examples the ratings generator determines ratings for media based on a total number of media accesses requests downloads etc. In some examples the ratings information is based on demographics location etc. of corresponding subscribers associated with the access history information stored in the media access history database . Accordingly the ratings generator may determine ratings information by combining access history information from a plurality of subscribers identified in the access history database. Statistical methods may be used to project the characteristics of the panelist audience e.g. subscribers who authorized access to their access history to one or more populations of interest.

While an example manner of implementing the online media monitor of is illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example information retriever the example credential manager the example credential database the example media access history manager the example media access history database the example ratings generator and or more generally the example online media monitor of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example information retriever the example credential manager the example credential database the example media access history manager the example media access history database the example ratings generator and or more generally the example online media monitor of could be implemented by one or more analog or digital circuit s logic circuits programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s . When reading any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example information retriever the example credential manager the example credential database the example media access history manager the example media access history database and or the example ratings generator is are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable storage device or storage disk such as a memory a digital versatile disk DVD a compact disk CD a Blu ray disk etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example online media monitor of may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

A flowchart representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the online media monitor of is shown in . In this example the machine readable instructions comprise a program for execution by a processor such as the processor shown in the example processor platform discussed below in connection with . The program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu ray disk or a memory associated with the processor but the entire program and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example program is described with reference to the flowchart illustrated in many other methods of implementing the example online media monitor may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and to exclude transmission media. As used herein tangible computer readable storage medium and tangible machine readable storage medium are used interchangeably. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer and or machine readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and to exclude transmission media. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended.

The program of begins with an initiation of the example online media monitor of e.g. in response to a measurement entity requesting ratings for media provided via an online media service . At block the example information retriever obtains an identification e.g. a subscriber ID a username etc. of a subscriber of an online media service e.g. one of the media distributor s such as Netflix Hulu YouTube etc. associated with one of the media distributors . In some examples the information retriever obtains the identification of the subscriber via the credential manager and or credential database . In some examples the information retriever obtains the identification of the subscriber from a user of the online media monitor . At block of the information retriever requests permission from the subscriber to access subscriber information and or access history information of the subscriber of the online media service. In some examples the information retriever requests subscriber permission using an online media service application e.g. a Netflix application a Hulu application a YouTube application etc. executing on a media presentation device e.g. one or more of the device s and or . In some examples the information retriever requests an API e.g. the subscriber information API of of the online media service to request subscriber permission to access the information. In some examples when a subscriber has already authorized permission prior to block the information retriever may identify the permission in the media access history database . At block of the illustrated example the information retriever determines whether permission was received. If permission was not received control advances to block . If permission was received control advances to block . In some examples blocks and are not executed when the obtained identification of the subscriber is associated with a subscriber that has already granted permission to access history information of the subscriber e.g. the subscriber information is already stored in the credential database . In such examples control advances directly from block to block .

At block of the illustrated example of the information retriever requests subscriber information and or access history information of the subscriber of the online media service via an API e.g. the subscriber information API of of the online media service. At block of the credential manager receives subscriber information and the media access history manager receives access history information via the API of the online media service. At block the credential manager stores the subscriber information in the credential database and the media access history manager stores the access history information in the media access history database .

In the illustrated example of at block the online media monitor determines whether the information retriever is to retrieve subscriber information and or access history information from additional subscribers. In some examples the online media monitor uses the credential manager to determine whether information has been retrieved from all subscribers identified in the credential database . In some examples the online media monitor determines via an API e.g. the subscriber information API of of an online media service whether there are additional subscribers that can be queried for permission to access subscriber information and or access history information of the additional subscribers. If the online media monitor determines that there are additional subscribers block control returns to block . If the online media monitor determines that there are not additional subscribers control advances to block .

At block of the illustrated example of the ratings generator determines media ratings information using the subscriber information and or the access history information from the credential database and or media access history database respectively. After block the program ends.

The processor platform of the illustrated example includes a processor . The processor of the illustrated example is hardware. For example the processor can be implemented by one or more integrated circuits logic circuits microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.

The processor of the illustrated example includes a local memory e.g. a cache . The processor of the illustrated example is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory is controlled by a memory controller.

The processor platform of the illustrated example also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

In the illustrated example one or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit s a subscriber to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example an audio sensor a microphone a camera still or video a keyboard a button a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit of the illustrated example. The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a light emitting diode LED an organic light emitting diode OLED a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT a touchscreen a tactile output device a light emitting diode LED a printer and or speakers . The interface circuit of the illustrated example thus typically includes a graphics driver card a graphics driver chip or a graphics driver processor.

The interface circuit of the illustrated example also includes a communication device such as a transmitter a receiver a transceiver a modem and or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external machines e.g. computing devices of any kind via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The processor platform of the illustrated example also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and or data. Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives Blu ray disk drives RAID systems and digital versatile disk DVD drives.

The coded instructions of may be stored in the mass storage device in the volatile memory in the non volatile memory and or on a removable tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD or DVD.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that the above disclosed methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been disclosed to determine ratings for online media services using subscriber information and access history. In examples disclosed herein an audience measurement entity can measure an audience of media presented using online media services using application programming interfaces APIs of the online media service.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been disclosed herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

