---

title: Enabling delayed interactions with content items presented by a social networking system
abstract: When a user sees a content item presented by a social networking system, the user may select an option to save the content item. The saved content item may be reinserted in a newsfeed presented to the user, integrated into collections, archived, used for notifications to the user, or otherwise subsequently presented to the user. A plug-in may be used to save content items accessed through websites external to the social networking system. As privacy settings associated with a saved content item are modified, the modified privacy settings are applied to the saved content item, which may prevent the user saving the content item from subsequently viewing the saved content item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396502&OS=09396502&RS=09396502
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09396502
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130123
---
This invention relates generally to interacting with content via a social networking system and more particularly to encouraging users to interact with previously presented content stored by a social networking system user.

Social networking systems present large amounts of content to their users. Examples of content presented by a social networking system include status updates descriptions of actions performed by social networking system users audio and video posts new associations advertisements offers activities and other types of content. As social networking systems have an increasing number of users there is an increasing amount of content for presentation to social networking system users making it difficult for a user to review or interact with the amount of content presented by the social networking system. For example when a user sees interesting content the user be unable interact with the content when it is initially viewed e.g. viewing a link at work to a video that the user wants to view at home or may desire to view future updates to presented content item.

However social networking systems frequently present content to users as a chronologically organized newsfeed. Typically a social networking system presents a user with the most recent content item at the top of a page including the newsfeed and presents older content item at lower locations of the page. Thus to interact with content previously presented by the social networking system a user typically navigates through newly presented content. As an increasing amount of new content is received it becomes more difficult to navigate through the new content to identify a desired previously presented content item making it difficult for users to subsequently interact with previously presented content.

Users of social networking system may save a content item presented by the social networking system allowing the users to more easily retrieve the content item from the social networking system. When the social networking system prevents a content item to a user an input option is presented and accessing the input option allows the user to save the content item to the social networking for subsequent interaction. The social networking system presents a saved content item to the user at a later time allowing the user to more easily retrieve and interact with the saved content item after its initial presentation. Saved content items may be presented to the user via any suitable channels. Examples of channels for presenting a saved content item include sending a notification of the saved content item to the user including the saved content item into a newsfeed at a later time maintaining a page of the social networking system including saved content items or any other suitable communication channel.

A content item saved by a user may be presented to the user based on information about the user or about the saved content item. For example if the social networking system receives location information associated with the user that is within a threshold distance of a location associated with the saved content item the social networking system includes the saved content item in the user s newsfeed at a more recent time or otherwise presents the saved content item to the user. As another example the user is presented with a saved content item based on the amount of time between a current time and the user s most recent interaction with the social networking system or based on an expected amount of interaction between the user and the social networking system.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The social networking system receives content items from users and allows users to establish connections to other users. Content items received from users are presented to other users via the social networking system such as users connected to a user from which the content item was received. The social networking system exchanges data with one or more user devices and one or more user devices through the network . shows one embodiment of a social networking system including a web server a content store an action logger an action log a content saving module and a user profile store . However in other embodiments the social networking system may include different and or additional components than those shown in .

The web server exchanges data between the social networking system and one or more user devices and or one or more external websites . For example the web server receives requests from the user devices and provides interfaces and content items to the user devices . Content items provided by the web server may be selected by the social networking system based on information associated with a user requesting the content items by the social networking system . This increases the likelihood of the user interacting with the provided content items. In one embodiment the web server provides a newsfeed to the user device requesting the content items. The newsfeed presents the content items or stories describing the content items in a chronological order.

In one embodiment the newsfeed provided to the user device includes one or more inputs allowing a user to save one or more of the presented content items via the social networking system . For example an input is included in each story including a content item allowing the user to access the input to save the story or the content item described by the story. As further described below when a user stores a presented item via the social networking system the social networking system subsequently retrieves the saved content item for presentation to the user at a later time.

The web server may also exchange data with one or more external websites . For example a social plug in included on pages provided by an external website exchanges data with the web server allowing the external website to include information from the social networking system along with the content from the external website on the pages. Hence a social plug in presented on a page from an external website may allow a user to save the page to the social networking system as if the user were saving content presented via the social networking system .

The content store stores objects representing various types of content items for presentation by the social networking system . Examples of content items represented by objects include a page post a status update a photo a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a brand page or any other type of content. Objects may be created by users of the social networking system such as status updates photos events groups or applications users may restrict or grant access to content items. In some embodiments content items stored as objects are received from third party applications which may be separate from the social networking system . As used herein a content item represents a single piece of content presented to social networking system users. Presenting content items to users increases user interaction with the social networking system by encouraging users to post content items for presentation increasing the interaction of users with each other and increasing the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system .

The action logger receives communications about user actions on and or off the social networking system and populates the action log with information describing these actions. Examples of actions include adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. The social networking system uses the action logger and the action log to track user actions on the social networking system as well as on external websites that communicate information to the social networking system .

Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items or other interactions. Information describing these actions is captured by the action logger and stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a group becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in a user profile associated with the user and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on external websites. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable external websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about social networking system users accessing content from an external website . The action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly provided by the user and may also include information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields with each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . Examples of information stored in a user profile includes biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log and references to connections to other users.

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing people to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the social networking system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity associated with the brand page.

A user profile may also store a user profile list that defines a list of other user profiles. The user profile list can be created and updated by the user or automatically created and updated by the social networking system . For example a user creates and updates a list of user profiles belonging to the user s close friends family members or co workers. In another example the social networking system automatically creates and updates a list of users that attended the same university as the user. A user profile list may be used to identify content items associated with users on the user profile list for presentation to the user allows the user to more easily interact with the users on the user profile list.

The content saving module receives a request from a user to save a content item presented to the user by the social networking system . When a request to save a content item is received the content saving module includes data in the content store indicating a user identifier of the user saving the content item. The content saving module also identifies and stores the state of the content item when the request to save the content item was received. For example a content item having 3 comments when a request to save it is received is saved in a state having 3 comments hence if additional comments are associated with the content item after it is saved the saved content item does not identify the additional comments. The additional comments may be identified by the content saving module to differentiate between comments presented when the request to save the content item was received and comments provided after the content item was saved.

The content saving module may store data describing the state of a saved content item or may include a reference to data in the content store describing the saved content item and data describing the state of the saved content item when the request to save the content item was received. Based on information about the user providing the request to save the content item the content saving module retrieves and presents the saved content item to the user providing the request to save the content item. After a content item is saved user interactions with the content item via the social networking system may affect the state of the saved content item.

Saving a content item via the content saving module allows a user to more easily interact with the saved content item by simplifying access to the saved content item. To encourage user interaction with the saved content item the content saving module may again present the saved content item to the user based on information associated with the user that saved the content item. For example based on the time of day the length of time a user interacts with the social networking system location data associated with the user the number of items the user has saved or any other suitable information the content saving module may retrieve and present a saved content item to the user.

For example the content saving module retrieves a content item saved by a user if the user interacts with the social networking system for at least a threshold amount of time which may indicate that the user has sufficient time to review the saved content item as well as newly presented content items. In some embodiments a saved content item may be retrieved based on time of day for example based on historical interactions with the social networking system a user may interact with the social networking system for a longer amount of time after a specified time of day so a saved content item is retrieved and presented to the user after the specified time of day. In some embodiments the content saving module uses a behavioral model to determine user behavior and estimated length of the user s interactions with the social networking system based on past activity and log in times. If the behavioral model determines at least a threshold likelihood that the user will interact with the social networking system for at least a threshold amount of time a saved content item is retrieved and presented by the content saving module . Additionally the length of time a saved content has been saved may also be used when retrieving and presenting a saved content item to the user that saved the content item.

Additionally location information associated with a user may be used to retrieve and present saved content items to the user. In one embodiment if the user is within a threshold distance of a location associated with a content item saved by the user the saved content item is presented to the user. For example a user saves an advertisement or offer from a retailer and when location information associated with the user is within a threshold distance of a location associated with the retailer the saved advertisement is retrieved and presented to the user. A user device may communicate location information to the social networking system that may be associated with a user using the user device subject to user privacy settings and the content saving module determines if the location information is within a threshold distance of a location associated with the saved content item. For example a saved content item associated with a retailer is presented to the user if the user check ins to a store operated by a retailer associated with a saved content item or another location near a store operated by the retailer. This allows the content saving module provide a user with saved content pertinent to the user s location.

Saved content items may also be retrieved and presented to a user based on the user s interactions with external websites . For example a user saving an offer from online retailer may visit an external website associated with the online retailer that operates a social plug in exchanging information with the social networking system . The social plug in communicates information identifying the user and the user s interaction with the external website to the social networking system and the content saving module may identify saved content items associated with the user and with the external website based on the information. A saved content item identified by the content saving module is communicated to the social plug in operated by the external website for presentation to the user along with content from the external website . In this example the saved offer is presented to the user via the social plug in while viewing content from the external website to encourage the user to take advantage of the offer while accessing the external website .

User interactions with a content item may cause presentation of a saved content item to a user. After a user saves a content item the content item is presented to additional users that may interact with the content item. These interactions may be identified by the content saving module causing retrieval and presentation of the saved content item to the user. For example if a specified user comments on the content item if a threshold number of users comment on the content item if a threshold number of users express a preference for the saved content item like the content item or any other suitable interaction is performed the saved content item is retrieved and presented to the user by the content saving module . In one embodiment the saved content item and a description of the interactions with the content item after it was saved are presented. Additionally the number of content items saved by a user may be used to identify saved content items for presentation to the user for example if a threshold number of content items are saved one or more saved content items may be selected for presentation to the user.

Saved content items may be subject to privacy settings specified by a user owning or otherwise administering the content items. A user may modify the privacy settings of a saved content item so that the saved content item is no longer accessible to the user that saved the saved content item. While the change in privacy settings prevents the saving user from being presented with the saved content item the content saving module may maintain an indication that content item is saved by the user. Hence if the privacy settings of the saved content item modified are again modified to allow access to the user saving the content item the saved content item may be presented to the user.

A saved content item may be presented to a user in a variety of ways. For example the saved content item is presented by a notification to the user identifying the saved content item. Alternatively the saved content item is inserted into the user s newsfeed at a more recent time making it more accessible or is presented using any suitable distribution channel. One or more saved content items may be accessible through a page dedicated to presenting the saved content items. The page may chronologically present content items saved by a user. In one embodiment a user may identify specific types e.g. videos photos status messages etc. so the page presents saved content items having the identified types. Content items saved by a user may also be added to categories which may be accessed via the page.

As described above other users may interact with a content item after the content item was saved by the user. For example other users presented with the content item may comment on the content item express a preference for the content item share the content item with additional users or perform any other interaction with the content item. Hence the content saving module may present a saved content item to a user based on the state of the saved content item when it was saved or may present the saved content item modified to include interactions between other users and the content item after it was saved. In one embodiment interactions with the saved content after it was saved are visually distinguished from the state of the saved content item when it was saved.

The user devices comprise one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer. Alternatively a user device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone or similar device. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a user device executes an application allowing a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . For example a user device executes a browser application to exchange information between the user device and the social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the user device such as IOS or ANDROID .

Information is communicated between the user devices the social networking system and or the one or more external website via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network may include communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of the communication links may be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

The social content retrieved from the content store and communicated to a user device along with instructions for generating the interface by the web server . Various inputs for receiving input from a user to interact with the social content are included in the interface. For example inputs allow a user to comment on a content item shown in the social content express a preference for a content item shown in the social content or otherwise interact with content items shown in the social content . A save input A allows a user to select a content item to be saved by the content saving module . In one embodiment an indication B that a content item has previously been saved is presented in place of the save input A. In some embodiments the save input A includes additional information C. For example the additional information C may identify the conditions used to determine when to present the saved content item to the user. As another example the additional information C may identify the number of times the content item has been saved by other users or has been saved by other users connected to the user viewing the social content .

Subsequently the content saving module retrieves information about the user that saved the content item. Based on the retrieved information the content saving module presents the saved content item to the user at a time after it was saved. As described above in conjunction with various types of information associated with the user may be retrieved and used to determine when to present the saved content item to the user. For example the retrieved information is an action from the user requesting to view a page including saved content items. As another example the retrieved information is location information associated with the user which is compared to location information associated with the saved content item as described above in conjunction with . The saved content item may be presented to the user in a variety of ways. For example the saved content item may be inserted into a newsfeed presented to the user in a location associated with a more recent time or may be presented using a notification sent to the user.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

