---

title: Laser based lens analysis device and method
abstract: A laser based lens analysis device comprising of a laser for emitting a laser beam, a beam expander for increasing the diameter of the laser beam, a beam collimator for collimating the increased diameter laser beam, an aperture for controlling the collimated laser beam and rendering the collimated laser beam to be substantially symmetrical, and a beam profiler for analyzing the laser beam characteristics after the controlled-symmetrical laser beam passes through the lens being tested. A method for lens analysis comprising the steps of emitting a laser beam, increasing the diameter of the laser beam, collimating the increased diameter laser beam, rendering the collimated laser beam substantially symmetrical, directing the symmetrical laser beam towards the lens being tested, and analyzing characteristics of the directed laser beam after the directed laser beam passes through the lens being tested.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09121789&OS=09121789&RS=09121789
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09121789
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131008
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

A lens is but without limitation a piece of glass or other transparent substance with curved or flat surfaces for concentrating and or dispersing light rays. A lens may be convex or concave. Lenses are typically used in eyeglasses visors cameras microscopes and telescopes etc. Lenses and devices utilizing a lens or lenses are tested for optical quality to ensure they are within required specifications. Optical quality includes prism spherical and cylindrical power. Prism describes the phenomena that moves an object in any direction other than where it should appear in real space. Refractive powers are spherical and cylindrical. Spherical power makes an object appear larger or smaller than what it should appear in real space i.e. reading glasses are positive spherical powered lenses. Cylindrical power makes an object elongated into a cylinder shape.

Currently a lensometer is used to analyze and test lenses and devices utilizing a lens. Many devices under test by the Department of Navy are physically too large or oddly shaped to properly fit in a lensometer. Additionally lensometers cannot adequately test the combined optical power of stacked lenses or multiple substrates of lenses like a pair of spectacles placed behind a visor. Lensometers cannot physically or optically accommodate testing through multiple substrates or differentiate the power attributed to each substrate. Lensometers cannot analyze a series of lenses.

The present invention is directed to a laser based lens analysis device and method that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to a laser based lens analysis device comprising of a laser for emitting a laser beam a beam expander for increasing the diameter of the laser beam a beam collimator for collimating the increased diameter laser beam an aperture for controlling the diameter of the collimated laser beam and rendering the collimated laser beam to be substantially symmetrical prior to passing through the lens being tested and a beam profiler for analyzing the laser beam characteristics after the controlled symmetrical laser beam passes through the lens being tested.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a laser based lens analysis device and method that can effectively test stacked lenses or devices that utilize a lens or lenses.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a laser based lens analysis device and method that can test prism cylindrical and spherical power of a lens stacked lenses or devices that utilize a lens or a series of lenses.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a laser based lens analysis device and method that can test and analyze optically stacked items in the as worn position especially in head mounted configurations.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . As shown in the laser based lens analysis device comprises of a laser for emitting a laser beam a beam expander for increasing the diameter of the laser beam a beam collimator for collimating the increased diameter laser beam an aperture for controlling the diameter of the collimated laser beam and rendering the collimated laser beam to be substantially symmetrical prior to passing through the lens being tested and a beam profiler for analyzing the laser beam characteristics after the controlled symmetrical laser beam passes through the lens being tested.

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in an aircraft environment specifically for a helmet donned with a visor as shown in however this invention can be utilized for any type of application that requires use of a lens analysis device.

In one of the preferred embodiments of the invention the preferred laser is a 5 mW tunable helium neon laser or any other type of continuous wave laser. The beam expander may be a 10 microscope objective expander. The beam collimator may be a 16 cm focal length converging lens placed 16 cm in from of the beam expander . However any type of laser beam expander or beam collimator that is practicable may be utilized.

A beam collimator may be defined but without limitations as a device that prevents divergence of a laser beam. The aperture is for controlling the diameter of the laser beam and rendering the laser beam to be substantially symmetrical. An aperture may be defined but without limitation as an opening a hole a gap or a space through which light passes in an optical or photographic instrument. A symmetrical beam may be defined but without limitation as a laser beam where the energy is distributed substantially evenly throughout the diameter of the laser beam.

The laser based lens analysis device may also include a filter for decreasing power of the laser beam prior to entering the beam expander . The preferred filter is a neutral density filter. A neutral density filter may be defined but without limitation as a filter that uniformly reduces or modifies the intensity of all wavelengths or colors of light equally giving no changes in hue differences of color rendition in lens being tested. The neutral density filter can be a colorless clear neutral density or grey filter. The preferred neutral density filter is a 1 OD neutral density filter.

The laser based lens analysis device can also include a focusing lens for focusing the laser beam toward the beam profiler after the laser beam passes through the lens being tested. The laser based lens analysis device may also include a track for holding the laser the neutral density filter the beam expander the beam collimator the aperture the lens being tested the focusing lens and the beam profiler such that the laser the neutral density filter the beam expander the beam collimator the aperture the lens being tested the focusing lens and the beam profiler can be moved on different locations along the track . However the laser lens and helmet may be positioned in an area not on the track or in a break in the track . In one of the preferred embodiments the laser is bolted to an optical table for stability. The lens being tested may be optionally either secured to the helmet or in a holder that is secured on a motorized stage configuration with X Y and rotation axis secured not moveable to the optical table for stability.

As shown in and the laser based lens analysis device can also include a head form donned with a helmet the lens being tested positioned on the helmet like a visor the head form and the helmet having at least one passage such that the laser beam can pass through both the head form and helmet and be directed toward the beam profiler . The passage is typically unobstructed such that laser beam may pass the head form without any interference to the laser beam after it passes through the lens being tested. In the preferred embodiment the head form is an anthropometric head form typically in the 50 adult range. In one of the preferred embodiments two passageways or holes are drilled where eyes are supposed to be connecting to a single larger passage or hole exiting the back of the head form . Spectacles may be placed on head form to simulate a person wearing glasses. The lens being tested may be different types of pilot visors a visor fitted with night vision filter s or any type of lens alone or in combination with another lens.

The beam profiler may be a card with a calibrated grid that shows or describes changes in laser beam characteristics such as but without limitation the size shape and structure of the laser beam. The beam profiler may also be computer controlled or a charge couple device camera.

The laser based lens analysis device may also be attached to a computer that includes a software beam profiler program. The computer can include a program that analyzes the laser beam s shape size and location. In the preferred embodiment the laser is stand alone with a beam profiler however a single computer can control the laser beam and beam profiler .

In operation the method for lens analysis particularly for measuring prism power comprises of the steps of emitting a laser beam increasing the diameter of the laser beam collimating the increased diameter laser beam rendering the collimated laser beam to be substantially symmetrical directing the symmetrical beam towards the lens being tested and analyzing the laser beam characteristics after the directed laser beam passes through the lens being tested. Another embodiment of the method particularly for measuring spherical and cylindrical power includes emitting a laser beam decreasing power of the laser beam increasing the diameter of the decreased power laser beam collimating the increased diameter laser beam rendering the collimated beam symmetrical directing the symmetrical beam towards the lens being tested focusing the laser beams and analyzing the laser beam characteristics after the controlled laser beam passes through the lens being tested.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

