---

title: Systems and methods for individually trapping particles from air and measuring the optical spectra or other properties of individual trapped particles
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for continuously sampling particles from air. In one embodiment, a system for continuously sampling particles from air may include: an airflow system configured to continuously draw air including airborne particles into the system; a photophoretic trap that uses photophoretic forces of a laser beam to trap one or more of the airborne particles from the drawn air; a measurement device configured to measure one or more properties of the trapped one or more airborne particles; and a controller configured to repeatedly trap, measure and release one or more airborne particles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09222874&OS=09222874&RS=09222874
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09222874
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130311
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 665 031 filed Jun. 27 2012 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

It resulted from research supported by the U.S. Army Research Laboratory ARL Director s Research Initiative DRI project FY 2010 2011 CIS 05 .

Embodiments of the present invention are generally directed to measuring optical spectra of other properties of airborne particles that can be used for detection or characterization of particles in air including harmful biological and chemical particles in air.

Airborne particles pose many problems. They can impact human health agriculture and the earth s climate. Pollens and fungal spores can cause allergies such as hay fever. Asthma can be exacerbated by airborne particles such as pollens and pollen fragments particles from fungi including fungal spores bacteria proteins from cats and dogs and particles from cockroaches and dust mites. Airborne particles primarily bacteria and viruses but also some fungi are a primary means of disease transmission in humans and other animals. Fungal spores and bacteria transmit diseases of agricultural crops that are responsible for tremendous losses each year.

Primary Biological Aerosol Particles PBAP include bacteria fungi pollens viruses algae protein allergens from cats and other animals bits of leaves plants skin dandruff etc. These particles may be aerosolized by airflows abrasion and by injection e.g. sneezing by animals or expulsion of spores by fungi . In addition to these commonly identified particles the PBAP may also include fragments of those particles e.g. micron sized particles that form when pollen grains undergo osmotic shock and rupture within the anthers or catkins of anemophilous plants may later be released into the air to form a respirable antigen laden aerosol. Similarly allergen laden fungal fragments can be much smaller than the fungal spores. PBAP also includes re aerosolized materials. Plants fungi and some animals have evolved efficient mechanisms to inject their pollens spores or their offspring etc. into the air.

There are large differences in the estimates of both PBAP emissions into the atmosphere and atmospheric loadings. PBAP has been reported to contribute as much as 25 of the total mass of atmospheric particulate matter. Fluorescent biological aerosol particles were found to contribute 28 of the total particle number in the 0.8 20 mm diameter range above a forest canopy in Borneo Indonesia. The global average concentration of fungal spores has been estimated to be approximately 1 mg m. There are large differences in estimates of total PBAP emissions.

Many particles in the atmosphere are complex mixtures. These result from emissions of complex particles and adsorption agglomeration chemical reactions which can occur especially in cycling though clouds. Sunlight provides the energy for many atmospheric chemical reactions affecting particle composition. Bacteria pollens and other PBAP can also act as cloud condensation nuclei and thereby affect rain deposition patterns cloud coverage and global climate. Also many PBAP including many pollen and fungal particles and other carbon containing aerosols e.g. soot absorb atmospheric radiation and re emit some of that radiation at ultraviolet and visible wavelengths. Therefore the absorption and fluorescence properties of atmospheric pollen and fungal materials are relevant for understanding their effects on climate. Some of the if not the largest uncertainties in global climate models are attributable to the uncertainties regarding the effects of aerosols. Some aerosols e.g. soot can contribute to warming by absorbing light. Other aerosols composed of e.g. bacteria silica dust or ammonium sulfate can contribute to cooling by scattering light or by acting as cloud condensation nuclei which help generate cloud droplets which also scatter light preventing sunlight from reaching the earth.

Optical trapping and manipulation of micron sized particles nanoparticles molecules and atoms have been used in aerosol science chemistry physics biology and interdisciplinary studies. For example in one type of radiation pressure trap commonly referred to as optical tweezers a tightly focused beam is used to hold particles. Other optical trapping methods have also been reported e.g. using longitudinal trapping holographic methods self reconstructing beams and axicon s . Combinations of trapping with other analytical techniques e.g. Raman spectroscopy of particles in air or in liquid provide ways to analyze molecular composition and to study time varying phenomena e.g. dynamic reactions in individual living cells.

Methods and devices exist for counting and characterizing airborne pollens fungal and plant spores bacteria protein allergens and other PBAP.

These techniques however are not without drawbacks. For example airborne biological agents such as anthrax or plague can be dispersed at such low concentrations that no one would suspect a release until after persons got sick and went to the doctor. Although forecasts related to allergens are available in much of the world counting and classifying pollens to the genus or species level is presently performed by labor intensive microscopic analysis of collected samples. At present it is prohibitively expensive to measure bacteria protein toxins or allergens pollen and fungal spores with sufficient spatial and temporal resolution and specificity to provide adequate warning of a bioagent attack or to provide adequate forecasts for persons with allergies. The times required for sampling and analyzing airborne bacteria pollen and fungal particles preclude real time alerts of hazardous conditions and they make more difficult potential studies of the effects of bacteria pollens or fungal particles on atmospheric processes or studies of transmission of fungal diseases of plants.

Improved automated and near real time techniques for characterizing bacteria pollens fungal spores and other PBAP may be useful.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for sampling atmospheric particles by trapping particles from air and measuring the optical spectra and or other properties of typically individual trapped particles.

According to one embodiment a system for continuously sampling particles from air may include an airflow system configured to continuously draw air including airborne particles into the system a photophoretic trap that uses photophoretic forces of a laser beam to trap one or more of the airborne particles from the drawn air a measurement device configured to measure one or more properties of the trapped one or more airborne particles and a controller configured to repeatedly trap measure and release one or more airborne particles.

According to another embodiment a method for continuously sampling particles from air may include continuously directing air including airborne particles toward a photophoretic trap that uses photophoretic forces of a laser beam to trap one or more of the airborne particles detecting an airborne particle in the air approaching and or within the photophoretic trap trapping one or more airborne particles in the photophoretic trap measuring one or more properties of the trapped one or more airborne particles and releasing the trapped one or more airborne particles.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for continuously sampling particles from air. These embodiments enable individually trapping particles from air and one or more measurements of individual trapped particles. Measurements may include the optical spectra and or other properties of the trapped particle.

By using a photophoretic trap which traps and holds a particle in a sampling volume one or more measurements of trapped airborne particles may be made one particle at a time i.e. in an individual or substantially individual manner because the trap inhibits other particles that might become trapped from entering the trap. When a particle approaching and or within the trapping volume is detected the photophoretic trap may be actuated so as to trap the particle for measurement. Alternatively if a particle is already held in the photophoretic trap once detected it can be measured. Additional measurements of the same trapped particle may be made if desired. After measurements the trapped particle may be released and depending upon the measurements of the particle may be collected for further analysis.

Measurements on a single trapped particle that is held in a very small spatial region i.e. within the trapping volume can be more precise and have a better signal to noise ratio than measurements made on particles flowing or held within a larger volume in air and or measurements made of multiple particles at once. For example in looking for a minor particle species mixed with a much larger group of other types of particles a typical situation in atmospheric sampling embodiments of the present invention will be far more sensitive than techniques that examine many particles e.g. 100 s to 1000 s simultaneously. Embodiments of the present invention reduce the number of false positive indications of specific harmful particles in the air as compared to conventional trigger instruments .

The measurements may include measuring one or more optical e.g. Raman fluorescence infrared emission spectra and or other properties of the trapped particle for instance. The measurements can be used for detection of harmful biological and chemical particles in air including biowarfare agents or can be used otherwise for characterization of particles in air. This system may be beneficial for measuring airborne particles which may only be present in a very small concentration relative to concentrations of other particles in air e.g. less than one particle in 10 one particle in 100 or one particle in 1000 . Where multiple measurements are performed the combination of data obtained from the multiple measurements of a single particle can nonetheless be extremely powerful.

Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may provide substantially real time e.g. within a few seconds monitoring of airborne particles. Also they may run continuously without using any reagents or liquids or special surfaces on which to catch the particles and thereby the logistics for operating the system are minimized. That is the costs in operator time to service the instrument replenish reagents filters collection surfaces etc. and the costs in storage and transportation of reagents etc. are minimized.

Various elements of the system may be incorporated into a housing or other structure thus forming a unitary apparatus. The housing may also include an appropriate power supply for instance. As such the system embodied as an apparatus may provide a compact and portable device. In some embodiments not all elements illustrated in the figure will be provided and or other elements may be provided. Additionally it will be appreciated that the elements may be present or may be positioned in locations other than illustrated in this schematic.

The system includes an airflow system configured to draw one or more airborne particles into a trapping volume A i.e. the volume depicted in dotted line enclosed and defined by the photophoretic trap depicted in solid line further discussed below . Particles within this trapping volume A can be trapped and held for measuring typically in a smaller central measuring volume within the trapping volume A as explained later.

As shown there is a measuring volume depicted as a smaller volume within the trapping volume A defined by the photophoretic trap . The trap is located within a sampling volume of the system . For instance in one embodiment the sampling volume and the trapping volume A may be substantially the same size and overlap in a location within the system. In other embodiments the trapping volume could be made relatively large and the sample volume could be made small and the air could be directed toward the trap. That arrangement may increase the fraction of particles drawn into the device that are caught in the trap which can be beneficial for situations where the particles have been pre selected in some way or are expensive or hard to obtain. Other measurements of properties such as temperature humidity density of the air drawn into the box or of airborne particles drawn into the box or of the flow rate of the air drawn into the box may be measured. Additional measurement s of particles not requiring trapping individual particles may also be measured in the sampling volume . Other configurations of the sampling volume are also possible.

Particles may be suspended in a gaseous medium air typically atmospheric air or some other gas. In various implementations and uses the particles may include e.g. solid liquid gel and or mixtures of these dispersed in a gas which may be consistent with the usual and customary definitions of aerosol particles. The system may be configured so that all the particles drawn into the system pass through the trapping volume A or it may be configured so that only a fraction of the particles are drawn through the trapping volume A. While a particle is held in the trapping volume A of the photophoretic trap airflow may continue substantially unabated through the trap around the trap or some combination thereof.

The size of the particles may vary depending on the environment and or desired application s . Airborne particles ranging from 0.6 to 100 micrometers may be quite common in some environments. Typical sizes of bacteria and bacterial spores may range from 0.6 to 10 m. Typical sizes of anthrax spores range from 1.1 to 1.7 m in length and 0.8 to 0.9 m in diameter. Typical sizes of fungal spores may range 2 to 20 m in diameter. Corn pollen typically can be 80 to 100 m in diameter.

The airflow system creates a flow of air . The incoming airflow to the system flows into an inlet and then to the sampling volume . The outgoing airflow from the system flows via an outlet to the ambient environment. A filter and or grating not shown may be provided at the inlet if desired to prevent particles larger than a predetermined size from entering the system. Tubing may provide fluid connection for airflow through the system . Here reference numeral points specifically to an inlet tube of tubing . A fluid mover may be provided which creates sufficient force e.g. negative pressure to move the airflow into and through the system . For example the fluid mover may be a pump a fan a compressor a blower a corona generated ion wind etc. To avoid violent or turbulent flow the fluid mover may be operated to ensure the flow rate of airflow is laminar with a steady flow rate. To avoid large drag forces on particles which may require very strong photophoretic forces to be held the airflow rates will typically be less than 1 m s and may be less than 1 cm s. Lower airflow and particle velocities allow particles to be trapped with lower requirements for trapping laser power for a given trap design. However when the airflow rates are decreased in order to reduce the requirements for trapping such as the trapping laser intensity the sampling rate tends to decrease. The drag force on a spherical particle of diameter d in a gas flow of velocity V and viscosity is F 3 Vd. While the fluid mover is illustrated near the outlet of the system as it is a preferred embodiment because the particles do not need to pass through any fluid mover before they are measured. But it will be appreciated that the fluid mover can be located at another location in the airflow such as for example near inlet

The sampling volume may be located within a substantially airtight box having an inlet and an outlet. Inside the box air and particles pass through an optional particle concentrator which increases the concentration or density of the particles in the airflow . The particle concentrator may be a so called air to air concentrator for instance for specifically processing particles in a gaseous medium.

A particle detector is configured to detect a particle or particles approaching and or within the sample volume . In one embodiment the particle detector may include one or more trigger beams. When a particle scatters light from the beam or beams and this light is detected by one or more photodetectors the signals from the photodetector or photodetectors indicate the presence of a particle either approaching and or within the trapping volume A depending upon the precise alignment of the trigger. As shown the particle detector is positioned somewhere upstream of the trapping volume A. But in other embodiments trigger beams of the particle detector could overlap with the sampling volume and or the trapping volume A. For example the particle detector may be comprised of two different wavelength crossed beam diode lasers with corresponding photodetectors each of said photodetectors including an optical filter that passes the wavelength of the diode laser it detects and blocks the light from the other diode laser and light at any other wavelengths that would interfere. One crossed diode trigger laser system which may be used as a particle detector is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 947 134 herein incorporated by reference. Of course other trigger beam systems and devices might also be used for detection a particle. For detection of a particle within not approaching the trapping volume the particle detector could at least partially overlap the trapping volume A in the schematic drawing.

In other embodiments the photophoretic trap generator system discussed in more detail below can be used to provide a beam for detecting a particle approaching and or within the trapping volume A thus forming the particle detector . Here the photophoretic trap generator system may operate as follows 1 the trapping laser is gated off or turned off or modulated to a relatively low intensity for a short time e.g. 1 ms to let any trapped particle typically as soon as the measurement of the trapped particle is completed out of the trapping volume and to let new particles into the trapping volume 2 the trapping laser is gated on or turned on or modulated to be at a higher intensity to trap any particle that is in the sample volume 3 a portion of the beam from the trapping laser illuminates the trapping volume A and is scattered by particles if any trapped in the trapping volume A 4 the scattering is detected for instance using a measuring device such as a photomultiplier PMT or photodiode system configured with the detection threshold set to trap only particles having a diameter greater than some desired size as in the trigger system described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 947 134 5 if a particle is detected the measurements are begun. After completion of the measurement s the process may be repeated and in a typical embodiment is repeated continuously as soon as a particle is trapped and its desired properties have been measured. This approach may provide a less expensive system by eliminating the separate trigger lasers and their associated photodetectors filters lenses and holders for this subsystem. It may also obviate the need for careful alignment of the trigger beams. The photophoretic trap traps a particle in the trapping volume A a volume defined by the photophoretic trap and holds it therein. Photophoretic forces generated by the photophoretic trap will tend to urge the particle toward a central measuring volume of the photophoretic trap thus the volume in which the particle is held during measurement of it optical properties is typically much smaller than the volume A defined by the light beams of the photophoretic trap . Ideally the photophoretic trap is sized and configured to trap and hold one individual particle at a time from the airflow . It is noted that this is the expected performance of the photophoretic trap .

However there may be circumstances e.g. relatively high concentrations of particles in the inlet air in which more than one particle might be trapped and held. This is a result of the typical substantially random distribution of particles in air. But the probability of trapping and holding two or more particles e.g. greater than 0.5 micrometer at once is likely to be very low e.g. less than 1 of the time if the average concentration of particles in air is low enough that only one particle is in the trapping volume at any time. For instance the particle concentration could be diluted by combining the inlet air with clean air or by enclosing the inlet airflow within a clean air sheath. In any event the photophoretic trap can be configured to trap and hold about one particle for measurement s thereof i.e. where the vast majority of the measurements are of a single individual particle and only some small fraction of the measurements are of two or more particles with sizes greater than some minimum diameter e.g. 0.6 micrometer .

For some applications embodiments that measure average spectra for multiple particles may be adequate and in fact desired for example because the measurements could be made more quickly. For example in monitoring the smoke particles from a fire or the exhaust from an engine trapping many particles at once can provide a way to rapidly provide the average spectra of the particles which may be desirable because for example such particles may change rapidly as the engine or fire parameters vary.

The photophoretic trap is formed by photophoretic forces which trap an airborne particle and hold it. Here the photophoretic forces may be generated by the photophoretic trap generator system which may include a beam controller laser and optical system . The beam controller is configured to modulate the intensity of the laser . The trapping laser is actuated or unblocked or gated on or modulated to a higher intensity for example at an appropriate time to trap a particle.

The photophoretic trap is specifically configured to generate photophoretic forces to trap and hold a particle. Photophoretic forces on a particle in air result when one side of the particle absorbs more electromagnetic energy light than the other side and consequently becomes warmer than the other side. The warmer side heats the air adjacent to it causing the air molecules to move faster and to impart more momentum to the particle on the warmer side. Consequently there is a net force pointing in the direction from the warmer to the cooler side. If a light absorbing particle is in a region where the light intensity on one side is greater than the intensity on the other side the particle tends to absorb more light on the side with the greater light intensity. Then the photophoretic forces push the particle away from the high intensity region toward a region with lower intensity. If the particle is weakly absorbing of light the heating pattern in and immediately outside the particle can be more complex. In some instances particles that are highly absorbing of light at the laser wavelengths used may be of interest.

For some excitation wavelengths and size absorptivity and thermal conductivity of the particle the temperature difference between the two sides of the particle may because of thermal diffusion be smaller than desired for strong photophoretic trapping. Therefore in some embodiments a high repetition rate pulsed laser is used for trapping. Each pulse generates a large temperature gradient across the particle which may decrease rapidly with time. The large temperature gradient may then be generated again by the next pulse.

For relatively transparent particles in relatively transparent media the gradient force a subset of radiation pressure forces can be stronger than the photophoretic force. Thus the particles may be attracted toward to the strongest electric field. On the other hand for particles that absorb light strongly the photophoretic force can be orders of magnitude larger than the radiation pressure force. Photophoretic forces thus push particles away from the high intensity region and therefore different light intensity configurations are required for trapping absorbing particles stably. Non absorbing particles tend to be caught in the high intensity beam and be drawn to the regions of highest focus not at the center of the photophoretic trap or they are not caught at all.

Various methods may be used to control the amplitude of the laser beam that generates the photophoretic trap. If the trapping laser is a diode laser that can be controlled by varying its drive current then the beam amplitude and trap can be controlled by varying the drive current. And if the laser is one where the amplitude cannot be directly controlled sufficiently rapidly using fast electronics e.g. in the beam controller then other modulators or shutters could be used. For example a separate blocking or modulating element may be provided in various embodiments. This blocking or modulating element is configured to be actuated so as to block the laser trapping beam from reaching the trapping volume A or to modulate the laser trapping beam so as to photophoretically move selected particles out of the trapping volume A or photophoretically move the selected particle to one or more collection surfaces depending upon the results of the measurements and algorithms. The blocking element may include for instance an acousto optic modulator AOM electro optic modulator EOM a motor driven mechanical shutter or a piezoelectric driven shutter.

The photophoretic trap may be configured in multiple ways. A variety of methods have been used to generate low optical intensity surrounded on all sides by higher intensity. Such an optical distribution is termed a bottle beam or dark focus region. Some methods that can be used to generate these bottle beams or dark focus regions for trapping and manipulating single or multiple absorbing particles in air employ either a single beam or counter propagating beams one lens or multiple lenses or no lens a circular aperture or a hologram or moir patterns or axicons in combination with lenses.

Axicons and other optical components may be used to form two counter propagating circular hollow laser beams from one laser beam e.g. from a Gaussian beam from an argon Ar ion laser beam. As used herein an axicon is an optical element that images a point into a line segment along the optical axis.

The two beams A in may be focused to form hollow conical beams which overlap to produce a biconical region of low intensity surrounded in any direction by the high intensity regions of the hollow beams which is a type of bottle beam. This trap is stable for absorbing particles. In this trap Raman spectra can be readily measured from individual micron sized clusters of multi walled carbon nanotubes MWCNTs in air. This photophoretic trap uses tube lenses and standard lenses as well as axicon lenses. Insets in the figure show intensity distributions of beam profiles measured for only one laser beam. The right inset shows the distribution near the focal region and the left inset shows the distribution farther from the focal region. This arrangement is believed to be simpler and less expensive to produce than some of the previously disclosed trap embodiments.

Other embodiments are possible. For example the optical bottle beam trap for photophoretically holding the particles may be generated using 

 a a single beam and a circular phase plate that causes a phase difference of radians similar to that described by Ozeri et al. Long spin relaxation times in a single beam blue detuned optical trap Physical Review A 59 1750 1753 1999 herein incorporated by reference 

 b a hologram similar to that described by Arlt and Padgett Generation of a beam with a dark focus surrounded by regions of higher intensity the optical bottle beam Optics Letters 25 191 194 2000 herein incorporated by reference or

 c a single Gaussian beam focused with a single lens similar to that described by Shvedov et al. Robust trapping and manipulation of airborne particles with a bottle beam Opt. Exp. 19 17350 17356 2011 herein incorporated by reference.

Additionally in other embodiments a dark focus bottle beam region may be generated using a circular aperture similar to that discussed by Garcia Sucerquia et al. Tubular structures in diffracted fields SPIE Vol. 4829 pp. 10 11 2003 herein incorporated by reference. In other embodiments the dark focus may be generated as described by Yelin et al. Generating an adjustable three dimensional dark focus Optics Letters 29 661 663 2004 herein incorporated by reference. Bottle beams or dark beams can be generated using phase masks or using moir techniques where a computer controlled spatial light modulator reflects according to the overlap of two gratings as disclosed by Zhang et al. Trapping and transporting aerosols with a single optical bottle beam generated by moir techniques Optics Letters 36 1491 2011 herein incorporated by reference.

The intersection of the multiple hollow trapping beams forms a closed high intensity axi symmetric surface. Particles remain trapped because gravitational drag and other forces are not sufficient to exceed the photophoretic trapping forces. Thus there is no need to impart a charge to particles in order for the particles to be trapped as they must be in using electrostatic or electroquastatic forces.

Returning to once the photophoretic trap is actuated i.e. turned on other particles are prevented from entering the trap. This feature provides a way to achieve a trap measure release system that can measure one particle at a time without other particles entering the trap during the acquisition of the spectrum of another particle. By contrast in conventional tweezers traps for instance other particles in the airstream tend to be added continually to a trapped particle as its spectrum is being measured.

The trapping laser may be deactivated e.g. turned off or blocked so as to eliminate the photophoretic forces of the photophoretic trap thus releasing the trapped particle . The trapped particle can then follow airflow to exit the sampling volume and ultimately the system via outlet . This may occur for instance after the particle s property is measured. Optics are used to further manipulate the output of laser so as to create the photophoretic trap . illustrate various optical elements that form optics for two embodiments of the system for instance.

While a particle is trapped and held in the photophoretic trap one or more properties of that trapped particle may be measured or otherwise made.

A measurement device thus is configured to measure at least one property of the trapped particle while it is held in the photophoretic particle trap . These measurements may include for example Raman fluorescence thermal emission laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS spark induced breakdown spectroscopy SIBS elastic scattering over one a few or many angles or wavelengths. The Raman fluorescence thermal emission LIBS and SIBS may each be measured at one or more emission bands including the case of sufficient bands to be considered a spectrum. The foregoing list is not exhaustive and other measurement techniques may be used. Devices for performing such measurements are generally known and will not be described in greater detail.

In one or more embodiments Raman spectra or Raman emission in one to several bands of a trapped particle may be measured. Raman spectra provide information on the vibrational and rotational energy levels of molecules. These spectra can serve as fingerprints for various pure materials such as chemical warfare CW agent droplets and may serve as fingerprints for some complex particles such as biological warfare BW aerosols prepared in certain ways or certain species of fungal spores etc. For these more complex particles such as those made from bacteria the spectra tend to become more difficult to differentiate from spectra of similar bacteria grown under various conditions. More particularly Raman spectral measurements may include for example Raman scattering Raman spectroscopy Resonance Raman spectroscopy Coherent anti stokes Raman scattering CARS and surface enhanced Raman scattering SERS which could be measured for example if the particles are combined with a droplet containing colloidal silver or gold nanoparticles before measurement .

Raman spectra may provide more information regarding the chemical and or biochemical composition of individual airborne particles than can be obtained using ultraviolet laser induced fluorescence UV LIF even when the UV LIF is combined with elastic scattering. According to one embodiment the system may measure Raman spectra of particles at rates of 10 s per minute to a few per second depending upon the particle sizes absorption coefficients Raman cross sections and concentrations of particles in air etc.

In general Raman emission is generated when excitation electromagnetic energy light interacts with the molecules in a material. This excitation light generates a spectrum of light that has a different e.g. typically longer wavelength than the wavelength of the excitation light. The Raman emission spectra are usually characteristic of the material and generally exhibit peaks at wavelengths which depend upon the excitation wavelength and the frequencies of vibration and rotation of the molecules in the material. Example Raman spectra measurements are shown in for various materials.

Because of their high information content Raman spectra of particles trapped using conventional optical tweezers including spectra of optically trapped individual biological cells blood yeast and bacteria have been measured and used for various investigations especially for particles in water. Raman spectra of samples airborne particles collected onto surfaces have been demonstrated to be useful for bioaerosol pathogen characterization.

Typically Raman spectra are obtained for particles collected on microscope slides or particles trapped in a liquid allowing periods of seconds to minutes for signal accumulation. In liquid most of the gravitational force is balanced by buoyancy forces and the liquid viscosity prevents the aerosol particle from moving easily. Consequently a relatively small radiation pressure force is sufficient for trapping particles in liquid and to overcome Brownian motion.

Measurements of Raman spectra of individual 1 m diameter particles may require acquisition times on the order of a few milliseconds to many seconds depending upon the particle composition laser excitation wavelength detector sensitivity desired signal to noise ratio the collection optics and the stability of the particle during the measurement period.

To achieve a continuously or quasi continuously operating air sampling system in which no reagents liquids or cleaning or replacing of surfaces are required in measurements the particles should be measured while trapped in air in a trap measure release system.

Holding particles in air during the time of the Raman spectra measurement allows the excitation laser beam and the collection optics to be optimized for that specific position of the particle in the trap and therefore provides shorter acquisition times lower requirements for laser power and better signal to noise ratios.

Although Raman spectra may be used in some embodiments it will be appreciated that other single particle measurements are made on the particle in addition to or as an alternative to Raman spectra measurements in other embodiments. Depending on the property measurements desired the emission measurement detection and analysis equipment may vary.

Returning to at least one detector may be included in the measurement device for particle measurements. Typically in operation only a fraction of the particles entering the system may be measured although such operation is not limiting . The detector can vary depending on which property of the trapped particle is to be measured. General detectors and or specific detectors may be used for instance. In some embodiments the detector may include a spectrograph.

Depending on the measurement desired an excitation source may be required generate energy which can produce emissions and or another phenomenon by the trapped particle .

In some embodiments the same laser that is used to trap the particle may also be used to generate the excitation energy which causes the trapped particle to generate the emissions and or another phenomenon which is to be detected by the detector . For example a portion of the beam of laser may be split off from the rest of the beam e.g. with a mirror beamsplitter and or other optics manipulated and directed via optics to the trapped particle .

In other embodiments increased flexibility in trapping and measuring can be obtained by using one or more separate excitation sources . These sources such as a laser may be provided in the measuring device that are configured to excite emissions of the trapped particle. As such the trapping laser need not be used in the measuring process. The excitation sources may be operated at a different wavelength and or other parameters than the trapping laser . For example in some embodiments the excitation sources may be focused tightly or weakly depending on the application or mode of operation.

A multiple laser system may be advantageous for trapping both absorbing particles and non absorbing particles. Absorbing particles are trapped using photophoretic forces as described above. Particles with little or no absorption are trapped using the radiation pressure forces generated by another tightly focused laser beam to form a laser tweezers trap. The wavelength of the second laser beam may be chosen to be one that is not absorbed well by the particle. In addition a multiple laser system can be used to controllably excite the emission at whatever excitation wavelength is desired. For instance a first laser may be used for trapping as described above. If the first laser with a wavelength chosen to trap the desired absorbing particles generates too much fluorescence a second laser can be chosen so that its Raman emission is at wavelengths e.g. longer than 800 nm where the fluorescence interference is much weaker. If the second laser is at a wavelength that is not absorbed by the particles of interest it can be focused tightly to the center of the trapping region and can contribute to trapping these non absorbing particles of interest. If the second beam were at a wavelength that is absorbed by the particles of interest its intensity is kept low enough that it does not push particles out of the trap. Once a particle is trapped the intensity of the second beam is increased so that the Raman spectrum is measured more rapidly. One specific example of such an approach is to use the relatively inexpensive 488 nm light to trap the particles but use the more expensive 244 nm light the doubled frequency if the fundamental is 488 nm to excite the Raman emission in a region where the fluorescence problem can be avoided. Another example application is to generate both the trapping and the Raman excitation beam from one laser e.g. at 244 nm using a beamsplitter and a means to control the amplitude of the second beam the Raman excitation beam .

Collection optics may further be included for manipulating emission and or phenomenon to be measured by detector . shows one configuration of optics adapted for collecting the Raman spectral signal over a large solid angle using a combination of an elliptical mirror and a spherical mirror according to embodiments of the present invention.

These optics generally include an elliptical mirror and a spherical mirror. The aerosol particle will be trapped at one of the focal points of the elliptical mirror which has been positioned to coincide with the center of the spherical mirror. Therefore light that reaches the spherical mirror from the particle is reflected back to the center of the mirror and towards the elliptical mirror while light that reaches the elliptical mirror either directly from the particle or reflected from the spherical mirror is reflected to the second focal point of the elliptical mirror. This second focal point overlaps with the entrance of the spectrometer. This configuration enables collection of a large solid angle e.g. greater than 2 or even 3 sr of the Raman spectral emission from single particles and it focuses the emission into a small angle to match the f number of the Raman spectrometer.

Returning to a particle analyzer is configured to analyze the measurement data. More particularly the analyzer may rapidly identify determine classify characterize and or sort particles according to their measured properties. In some embodiments it may determine from at least one measured property a parameter related to the trapped particle . This may include determining from the measurements one or more parameters related to particle shape size refractive index absorption Raman cross section or any combination thereof of the trapped particle for example. Parameters may be determined or otherwise computed from measured data. For instance extracting the size shape and refractive index of a particle from angular scattering measurements requires solving an inverse problem or at least finding an approximation to that solution.

The particle analyzer may be configured to monitor measurement data for potentially harmful particles such as bacteria bacterial spores pollens fungal spores protein allergens smoke particles and pollutants such as pollutant particles that contain polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons or reactive oxygenated species. A database not shown of known threats may be searched and or analyzed with respect to measurement data for example. Also past measurements may be stored for further analysis and or future searching.

In some instances the particle analyzer may be used to count and classify particles which can be used to determine or estimate exposures of persons to various airborne chemicals and pollutants such as for example smoke from fires or burn pits or to diesel exhaust.

The particle analyzer may be a computer or microprocessor for instance which is configured to execute an algorithm that is used to identify and or classify particles based on their measured properties preferably in real time. The different categories can correspond to one or more different pollens bacteria bacterial spores allergens or any other classification scheme. In some embodiments the near real time algorithm used to classify particles into categories will be similar to those described in papers by R. G. Pinnick et al Fluorescence spectra of atmospheric aerosol at Adelphi Md. USA measurement and classification of single particles containing organic carbon Atmos. Environ. 38 657 1672 2004 and by Y. L. Pan et al Single particle laser induced fluorescence spectra of biological and other organic carbon aerosols in the atmosphere measurements at New Haven Conn. and Las Cruces N. Mex. J. Geophys. Res. 112 D24S19 1 15 2007 each of which is herein incorporated by reference. In other embodiments the near real time algorithm used to sort particles into categories may be the one described by Y. L. Pan et al Fluorescence spectra of atmospheric aerosol particles measured using one or two excitation wavelengths Comparison of classification schemes employing different emission and scattering results Optics Express 18 12 12436 12457 2010 herein incorporated by reference. Of course for the case of Raman spectra the algorithms may be the same or similar but the actual spectral shapes for the different particle categories are very different and generally will have higher information content. Again for the case of thermal emission the algorithms may be the same as or similar to those described above but the actual spectral shapes and spectral features that are used in the algorithms are different.

Additionally the particle analyzer may be coupled to a warning detector that is configured to provide a warning when particles consistent with expected or known biological or chemical agents are detected. This may be instrumental for instance in the case of an attack with aerosolized biowarfare or chemical warfare agents by indicating a potential attack so that personnel can begin to take protective actions. The warning detector may include an audible alarm or siren flashing strobe light display screen etc. which can provide audible and or visual warnings. In some instances written instructions may be provided by the display screen or printer for the aid of personnel. If the system is connected to a network e.g. phone internet intranet etc. it may generate messages to contact first responders or other emergency personnel command personnel and or other persons as desired.

A particle sorter can physically sort and optionally store particles based on their measured properties. One particle sorting system which may be used with embodiments of the present invention is disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 410 063 herein incorporated by reference. In other embodiments once it is determined that a trapped particle should be collected and stored for further analysis the air surrounding the particle is drawn though a filter e.g. glass fiber or filter with small holes e.g. a nucleopore or Millipore filter by opening a valve connected to a vacuum or by turning on an air pump and then catching the particle on the filter as the air it is entrained in is drawn through the filter.

A controller is provided which is configured to the various control operations of the system preferably in a fully automated manner so that the system can trap a particle from air hold it for as long as needed to measure its Raman spectrum or other properties as appropriate then release the particle once the measurement s are completed and then continuously repeat these steps trap measure release . The controller may be a computer or microprocessor for instance that includes computer executable code which when executed is configured to implement methods for continuously sampling particles from air.

The controller may be configured to generate and send signals to the various elements described herein for instance causing the elements to function or be otherwise actuated deactivated upon command. This may include generating signals to trap a particle in the sampling volume and hold the trapped particle measure a property of the trapped particle and release the trapped particle. The aforementioned sequence may be repeated as many times as desired.

Operation of the system may vary depending on the particle detector as discussed above. For example in one embodiment the controller may generate a signal to actuate the photophoretic trap to trap the particle in the sampling volume based on a detection signal received from the particle detector . Or in another embodiment the controller may generate a signal to cause the measuring device to measure a property of a trapped particle already trapped in the photophoretic trap based on a detection signal received from the particle detector .

Once a particle is trapped by the photophoretic trap depending on the desired operation controller may ensure that it is held for sufficient time in order to a make one or more measurements of the same particle using different techniques b make improved measurements because the particle location can be better defined and c make measurements of dynamic processes in a trapped particle by repeatedly measuring the spectrum or other parameter to see how it changes with time. In one embodiment the fluorescence spectra can be measured with higher resolution and the angular optical scattering can be measured with far better knowledge of the position of the particle and of the angles of the measured scattering intensities. The resulting reduction in uncertainties in the measurements makes the inverse problem to extract parameters relating to the shape size or chemical composition far more tractable. Other sampling methodologies may also be executed and the aforementioned ones should not be thought of as exhaustive.

The controller initiates sampling in operation and monitors the voltage output of the one or more PMT assemblies which measure the forward elastic light scattering from particles passing through the one or more diode laser trigger beams in operation . A subsystem of the controller includes the pulse shaping amplifiers typically set with time constants of one to a few microseconds and includes single channel analyzers which operate as discriminators in window mode and if two diode laser PMT assemblies are used includes an AND gate to send an output signal when both of the single channel analyzers provide an output signal indicating that both the PMTs have measured optical scattering that is above threshold all as described in Chang Pan Pinnick and Hill U.S. Pat. No. 6 532 067 B1 and illustrated in the lower part of the first figure of that patent herein incorporated by reference. One significant difference between U.S. Pat. No. 6 532 067 and the present invention is that in U.S. Pat. No. 6 532 067 the air flow rate is approximately 10 meters second m s which is acceptable when trapping of particles is not required while in the present invention the velocity of the airflow and particles carried in the airflow it is far smaller than 10 m s typically less than 1 m s and can be less than 1 cm s for particles that are more difficult to trap because of low optical absorption high thermal conductivity or small size for example less than 1 m.

In operation a determination is made if there is a particle in position to be trapper. If the AND gate See U.S. Pat. No. 6 532 067 B1 FIG. 1 emits a signal indicating that both PMT voltages exceed a preset threshold or to fall within a preset window set so as to select and measure particles within a desired size range and so a particle is in the intersection of the two trigger beams then the controller turns on the trap in operation for example causes the laser to be unblocked by changing the voltage applied to an acoustooptic modulator typically within fractions of a millisecond so that the particle can be held within the trapping volume and other particles can be prevented from entering that trapping volume so that a substantially single particle measurement can be obtained. Note that within 0.5 ms a particle moving at 5 cm s moves 25 m so the intersection of the trigger laser beams could essentially overlap the trigger volume and the detected particle would in the large majority of cases still be within the trapping volume when the trapping laser was turned on.

In operation after the trap has been on for a short time e.g. 1 ms to 10 s of ms in order to give the trapped particle time to move to near the center of the trap the controller examines the amplified voltages from PMTs which record the elastic scattering from any particle caught in the trap to ensure that a particle has in fact been trapped. In one preferred embodiment the diode laser s PMT s and electronics assembly used to verify a particle is trapped are the same as those used for the initial detection of the particle that is the trigger laser detector assembly .

If the amplified voltage s from the PMT s detecting trapped particles do not exceed a preset threshold the controller takes this as an indication that no particle was trapped and so the trap is turned off in operation top of and the trigger laser PMT subsystem begins looking for a particle in or moving into the trapping volume in operation .

On the other hand if the amplified voltage s exceed a threshold the controller takes this to indicate a particle and the signals for the Raman measurement system to measure the Raman spectrum of the trapped particle in operation . The controller may also send to the data acquisition system for the Raman spectrum measurement the length of time for which to acquire the Raman spectrum. This desired acquisition time is determined from the voltage s from the PMT s and a set of times required for Raman spectrum acquisition which is determined using calibration particles of the desired type s to detect and for sizes within a desired range of particle sizes.

Once the Raman spectrum is recorded in operation the spectrum is rapidly analyzed to determine if it is consistent with Raman spectra of particular particles of interest or otherwise adequate in operation . For example in the operation the controller may determine whether the Raman spectrum has a signal to background ratio that suggests it should be helpful to record the Raman spectrum a second time with a longer integration time in operation .

If that is the case the controller signals the Raman system to acquire this second Raman spectrum with a longer acquisition time in operation . If that is not the case e.g. because the spectrum appears adequate or because it appears hopelessly noisy then the particle is trap is turned off in operation the particle is released the sampling cycle repeats again in operation .

Further analysis of the spectrum and recently measured spectra continues concurrently and the spectra are stored for analyzing in operation . If the measured Raman spectra are consistent with particular types of harmful particles that information is transmitted to any desired locations.

In a simpler embodiment of the controller there may be no immediate analysis of the spectrum to ascertain whether a second Raman spectrum will be recorded. Instead as soon as the Raman spectrum is recorded the particle is released and the trigger subsystem begins monitoring for a particle moving into the trapping volume.

Here particle laden air is drawn into an airtight box through an inlet and is drawn out of the box through an air pump and then exits through the air exhaust outlet . In this embodiment the aerosol entering the box passes through an air to air concentrator which increases the particle concentration in order to increase the sample rate. As illustrated in when a particle scatters light from both trigger beams then that particle must have passed through the intersection of the two beams. In the lower part of the box the counter propagating arrows represent a cross section of two hollow conical beams which intersect to form a low intensity region surrounded by high intensity beams. When a particle is detected approaching the trapping volume inside the dashed oval inside the volume defined by the conical beams the beams are turned on and the particle is trapped so that its spectrum can be measured.

In a particle is shown in the sample volume. After the particle s property e.g. Raman spectrum and or other property is measured the trapping laser beam is blocked such that the trapped particle is no longer held and so is carried out of the sample volume in the airflow. For example an AOM may deflect the trapping laser beam so that it blocks it.

When the next particle enters the trigger volume it scatters light from both trigger lasers. This light is detected. The time of detection is used to determine when to unblock the trapping laser so that the detected particle is trapped so that its Raman signal can be measured. For instance the AOM may be turned off so that it does not deflect the trigger beam.

The two beams are focused to form hollow conical beams which overlap to produce a biconical region of low intensity surrounded in any direction by the high intensity regions of the hollow beams. This photophoretic trap is stable for absorbing particles. With this trap Raman spectra or other properties can be measured from individual particles in air such as for example micron sized clusters of multi walled carbon nanotubes MWCNTs and Johnson grass smut spores a fungal spore . Particles remain trapped because gravitational drag and other forces are not sufficient to exceed the photophoretic trapping forces.

In the trapping region is formed by two counter propagating hollow conical beams see inset in the middle . ND neutral density filter M mirror with high reflection at 488 nm BS beam splitter PM power meter DP diaphragm L lens MO microscope objective DBS dichromatic beam splitter LP long pass filter Light from the laser after being reflected by mirror M passing through the beam splitter and the acoustooptic modulator and reflected by mirror M enters beam expanders A A. Light from the beam expanders enters the axicon lens A and is focused by focusing lenses A onto Axicon lenses AL AL as shown in . The AOM is used to rapidly turn the trap on or off by rapidly deflecting or not deflecting the beam passing through it.

The light source is a continuous wave cw argon ion laser operating at 488 nm Coherent Inc. Innova 300C FreD . It produces a linearly polarized Gaussian beam TEM00 . Its output power can be controlled by adjusting the plasma tube current and or by adjusting a neutral density filter. The laser beam is cleaned and re collimated using a 2 mm diameter diaphragm two lenses A and A where A has a focal length of 25 mm and A has a focal length of 50 mm and a 400 m diameter pinhole . The Gaussian beam is transformed into a hollow beam by passing it through three axicons A C D Thorlabs cone angle 176 and a spatial filter . The spatial filter is an optical window with a 5 mm mirror at the center for blocking the remaining light along the optical axis. The first half wave plate and polarizing beam splitter are used for fine adjustment of the laser intensity. The second combination of wave plate and polarizing beam splitter is used to separate the laser beam into two equal intensity beams propagating perpendicularly to each other where one is polarized horizontally and the other polarized vertically. The different polarizations for these two beams are not required for generating the desired optical intensity distribution for trapping the particles but are designed to make the two equal intensity beams travel around the triangular path only once then exit at polarizing beam splitter in order to minimize unwanted multiple reflections and interference patterns. The two beams are further made to overlap as they propagate in opposite directions and initially to focus to a similar point equidistant from polarizing beam splitter by microscope objectives MO and MO Nikon ELWD 20 NA 0.4 . Each MO is mounted on a 2D tiltable frame supported by a 3D translation stage for ease in alignment. By moving MO and MO towards each other at least 10 m 50 m for the measurements shown here along the optical axis longitudinally a hollow biconical region with two closed ends is formed for particle trapping see the inset of trapping region at the center of the figure .

A continuous wave diode laser operating at 635 nm is used to illuminate the trapped particle for alignment. MO Creative Devices f 20 mm 50 N.A. 0.42 collects both the Raman scattering signal and the elastic scattering from the trapped particle. The dichroic beam splitter DBS Semrock LPD01 488RU 25 reflects the 488 nm light and transmits the 494.3 to 756.4 nm band 95 for a 45 incident beam. Another long pass Raman edge filter LP Semrock LP02 488RE 25 further blocks the residue of elastic scattering from the laser with high transmission in the 491.2 1110.8 nm band 95 . The scattering image of the trapped particle is monitored by a CCD camera Pulnix TM 9701 for the 488 nm scattering and by an Electron Multiplying CCD EM CCD Princeton ProEM 1600 200 operating in imaging mode for the 635 nm scattering. This back illuminated UV enhanced EMCCD detector has the combined advantages of traditional charge coupled devices CCDs and image intensified CCDs ICCDs and has a quantum efficiency of about 90 in visible and above 35 in UV. The Raman signal is dispersed by a spectrograph Acton SP2300 grating 1200 mm blaze 500 nm and recorded by the EMCCD in spectroscopy mode.

To verify that the conical beams have the desired intensity distributions transversely and longitudinally beam profiles in the vicinity of the trapping region were measured. illustrates the light intensity distribution for one of the conical beams shown in a plane transverse to the axis of the conical beams for the appartus illustrated in which were measured by the inventors.

The images in were obtained by directly measuring the beam with a charge coupled device CCD when the laser was at a very low power. These images indicate that the beam can be focused to a spot with full width at half maximum FWHM around 50 m see top right . This spot provides the closed end along the axis of the biconical region. The beam profile exhibits relatively little azimuthal variation in intensity angular variation around the axis . The thickness of the ring is about 100 m FWHM around the ring. The intensity near the axis away from the focal region is low relative to the intensity of the ring see bottom part but is not so low that it cannot generate a measurable Raman emission. This ring is a slice through the high intensity surface that forms the hollow biconical region. When originally formed by the axicon setup the hollow beams have a series of concentric rings with rings further from the axis having lower intensities. Here the beam is spatially filtered to allow only the strongest ring to enter the aperture of the MOs. The total length of the round trip in the triangular trapping path is adjusted so that the weaker rings that are further from the optical axis are blocked by the apertures of MOs. This filtering of the beam is designed to reduce unnecessary interferences also.

Using the system shown in the inventors were able to trap individual micron sized particles or aggregates of particles of Johnson grass smut spores one example of a fungal spore riboflavin and powders of carbon black nigrosin and carbon nanotubes in the open air for times up to hours. The particles were aerosolized by placing them on a microscope slide set under the trapping region and blowing them into the air either with turbulent air flows from an ultrasonic needle or with a tiny puff from a can of compressed air. Once the aerosolized particles entered into the trapping region many particles moved rapidly toward the trap center and competed for a stable position. Typically only one trapped particle or agglomerate remained after a short time e.g. seconds . Occasionally two or three particles were trapped near each other but were not touching. One likely explanation for this is that each of these separated particles had a residual charge of the same sign which caused them to repel each other and remain separated. If two particles having charges with opposite sign were trapped they would probably agglomerate with each other. The elastic scattering light from these particles is strong enough to be visible to the naked eye. For the embodiment shown in the AOM deflects the beam when on with the result that there to be no trapping beam and so particles can enter the sample volume. When the AOM off it passes the beam so the particles in the trapping volume are trapped but other particles are not allowed to enter the trap. Also for a preferred embodiment shown in the spectrograph may employ an acoustooptic modulator AOM also known as an acoustooptic tunable filter AOTF to rapidly scan over the wavelengths for measuring the Raman spectrum. In a similar embodiment a liquid crystal tunable filter may be used to obtain the Raman spectrum.

Further as to particles are carried by an air flow that moves in the direction into the page plane of the page through the sample volume which is near the intersection of the focal points of MO MO and MO. further includes a trapping region which is shown in the inset to . shows photographs of single particles trapped in air which were measured by the inventors. The top photograph in the figure shows a single particle trapped in air by photophoretic forces as captured by a video camera. Microscope objectives MOs are visible as are the glass cover slips used to protect the MOs from particles and to reduce air currents in the trapping region. MO was used to image the fiber and particles in the lower part of this figure. The three bottom photographs in the figure show the images recorded by the CCD for a 100 m diameter fiber used for aligning the system left panel and the three trapped particles with diameters around 5 m 20 m 35 m respectively in the panels to the right. Smaller 2 m and larger 100 m particles have also been trapped.

Intitial experiments conductored by the inventors used carbon nano foam or agglomerates of carbon nanoparticles for test particles for photophoretic trapping because of their low bulk density 2 20 mg cm and very low thermal conductivity 0.0266 W mK . The low thermal conductivity helps the carbon nano foam agglomerate particles to maintain a highly asymmetric surface temperature which allows them to be trapped using laser powers as low as 0.3 mW. Experimental results though showed that solid particles with a much higher density and thermal conductivity than the carbon nano foam or agglomerates can be readily captured and steadily trapped in air for long times up to hrs with sufficient laser power 30 mW or above . The thermal conductivity for carbon black is 6 174 W mK which is at least 100 to 1000 times higher than the carbon nano foam. Agglomerates of carbon nanotubes which have an even higher thermal conductivity 200 6000 W mK were also readily trapped. No thermal conductivity data was found for nigrosin Johnson grass smut spores or riboflavin. Higher laser powers 30 mW or higher were required to capture and trap particles of riboflavin and Johnson grass smut spores. The absorption at 488 nm is probably lower for the smut spores and riboflavin than for the samples that are mostly elemental carbon.

The higher the laser power the more easily particles can be trapped. The highest power used was 100 mW. Once a particle is trapped it can remain trapped while the laser power is gradually decreased to some lower limit. The lowest power that was found to be sufficient to hold a carbon black particle for seconds was 1 mW after it was initially captured with 20 mW .

Usually no movement of the trapped particle occurs as monitored by the CCD. Occasionally a trapped particle leaves the trap. Other times a trapped particle may drift away from the trapping position and then bounce back quickly from the beam at the surface of the bicone and stop where it was trapped previously. These movements often appear correlated with motion of persons in the room which may increase the turbulent air currents. The drag force on small particles in air can be large easily exceeding the gravitational force. This sensitivity to movement of persons suggests that particles could be trapped with even lower laser powers for long times in an air tight chamber with or without a uniform laminar airflow.

The spectrograph in has the largest signal noise S N 30 s gain time 60 the spectrograph in has the next largest S N ratio 10 s gain time 50 and the spectrographs in has the smallest S N 0.5 s gain time 50 . Even though the width of the entrance slit for the spectrograph in is 100 m i.e. th of the 500 m used for those of the S N in is larger than in . The narrow slit width for the spectrograph in also improves the spectral resolution.

Raman spectra from individual bacterial spores or cells held a using a conventional tweezers trap can be measured with adequate S N when the particle is illuminated with intensities in the range of 1 MW cmfor times of 16 to 60 seconds. These times and large intensities are required because of a the extremely small cross sections for Raman scattering from bacteria excited in the near IR b the spread of the Raman emission over a broad range of vibrational frequencies resulting from the many different molecular species in biological cells c the desire to minimize photodamage and d the small sizes of the single bacteria studied approximately 0.8 to 2 m diameter for equivalent volume spheres . A comparison of such measurements with measurement made using conventional tweezers traps for the absorbing carbon particles illustrated in the figures is as follows. The illumination intensity on the particles in was estimated to be roughly 10times smaller than that used for Raman measurements of bacteria trapped with laser tweezers as reported by D. Chen S. S. Huang and Y. Q. Li Real time detection of kinetic germination and heterogeneity of single spores by laser tweezers Raman spectroscopy Anal. Chem. 78 19 6936 6941 2006 and C. Xie and Y. Q. Li Confocal micro Raman spectroscopy of single biological cells using optical trapping and shifted excitation difference techniques J. Appl. Phys. 93 5 2982 2986 2003 both herein incorporated by reference. The intensity illuminating the particles in is estimated to be roughly 100 W cm when the laser power was 30 mW . The intensity was kept low partly because of our interest in a system that does not require high power. When the laser power was increased to 100 mW the trap was more able to catch less absorbing particles and it would generate stronger Raman signals if they had been measured. The laser intensity was also kept low partly to avoid overheating or photodegrading the particles. However the inventors did not notice evidence of overheating or of photodegradation even when the laser power was increased to 100 W cm. Using the analysis reported by J. R. Finke et al Measurement of the emissivity of small particles at elevated temperatures Opt. Eng. 27 684 690 1988 herein incorporated by reference an increase in equilibrium temperature of 84 C. was estimated for a cw 30 mW beam illuminating a solid 20 m diameter particle that absorbs all the light impinging directly on it i.e. for an absorption efficiency of 1.0 . A typical diameter of many atmospheric particles to be measured is approximately 2 m. The increase in equilibrium temperature for a highly absorbing 2 m particle was estimated to be 8 C. for 30 mW illumination. Increasing the illumination intensity on the particle could reduce the acquisition times required for Raman spectra. This increase could be achieved by increasing the laser power. It could also be achieved by adjusting the optics to increase the intensity at the center of the beam so long as that the trapping intensity forming the biconical trap was also increased. Efficient trapping does not require that the intensity at the center of the trap be very small. Trapping requires that intensity barrier preventing the particles from leaving the trap be sufficiently high above the intensity whatever it is at the intensity minimum of the trapping region.

For photophoretic trapping the laser wavelength should be absorbed well by at least one of the species of molecules in the particle a species that comprises a significant percentage of the mass of the particle e.g. 0.5 depending upon the particle mass . Therefore it is likely that at least one of the species in a photophoretically trapped particle will exhibit a resonantly enhanced Raman cross section. Resonance Raman cross sections can be orders of magnitude larger than those measured far from resonance. In laser tweezers trapping the excitation wavelength for the Raman emission cannot be near a resonance of a molecule that contributes a significant fraction of the mass of the particle. If the wavelength were near an absorption resonance then the photophoretic forces would dominate over the radiation pressure forces and push the particle out of from trap.

Excitation of Raman emission at wavelengths below about 248 nm is particularly useful for measurements of bioaerosols because a the fluorescence is separated from the Raman spectrum b the Raman cross section is relatively large it increases as frequency to the 4power c the absorption of amino acids and nucleic acids are relatively strong at wavelengths in the 220 nm to 248 nm range and d there is some resonance enhancement of the Raman spectra. Therefore Raman spectra can be measured relatively quickly. On the other hand conventional radiation pressure traps cannot be used for bioaerosols at these wavelengths because light at these wavelengths is absorbed well and so photophoretic forces strongly dominate over radiation pressure forces for the biological materials of interest.

In the diameters of the MWCNT particles have diameters roughly 20 times larger than the diameters of the bacterial spores measured in the near IR. The absorption by these 20 m diameter MWCNT particles would be roughly 400 times larger than a 1 m MWCNT particle. Although Raman cross sections of selected individual carbon nanotubes excited near resonance with an ideal orientation can be as large as 10cm sr it is not clear how such a number applies to the case studied here where there is extensive a dispersion in nanotube diameters orientations and numbers of walls.

The Raman signal will be generated near the surface of a MWCNT particle because each particle is large and highly absorbing. In the transparent bacterial particles studied in tweezers traps where the Raman emission is excited by wavelengths in the near IR molecules throughout the volume should be able to contribute to the signal.

A high fraction of the Raman emitted by a nanotube structure but not necessarily by the particle composed of many nanotubes for instance will tend to be absorbed before it is able to exit the particle. This absorption should occur because the MWCNT material is highly absorbing at the Raman emission wavelengths. This reabsorption of emission would not be significant in the case of the low absorbing particles studied with laser tweezers in the near IR. This reabsorption of emission would not occur for materials where the absorption of the excitation wavelength is high needed for photophoretic trapping with excitation at the trapping wavelength but where the absorption of light at the wavelengths of the Raman emission is relatively low.

Illumination of particles using wavelengths of light in the 220 nm to 248 nm range has several advantages for both measuring Raman and for trapping biological aerosols. One difficulty in measuring Raman spectra from biological materials is that when these biomaterials are excited at wavelengths from about 250 nm to 650 nm the fluorescence can overlap the Raman signal and can swamp the Raman signal because it typically much larger than the Raman emission.

To address this problem in one approach the fluorescence is first photobleached and the Raman spectrum is measured as reported by K. S. Kalasinsky et al Raman chemical imaging spectroscopy reagentless detection and identification of pathogens signature development and valuation Anal. Chem. 79 2658 2673 2007 J. Guicheteau et al Bacterial mixture identification using Raman and surface enhanced Raman chemical imaging J. Raman Spectroscopy. 41 1632 1637 2010 herein incorporated by reference. This approach works well for instance for measuring Raman of particles collected on a surface. However because the required photobleaching times are usually longer than 1 minute it may not suitable for the continuously sampling.

Another approach is to reduce the fluorescence Raman overlap by illuminating the particles with wavelengths shorter than about 248 nm. At these wavelengths the fluorescence from biological materials is shifted sufficiently far from the laser wavelength and the Raman emission stays sufficiently close to the laser wavelength that the Raman spectra are measurable with very little fluorescence interference. As a result photobleaching of the fluorescence is not required for measurements of good quality Raman spectra and so spectra of bioaerosols can be obtained without a need to photobleach.

Other benefits of exciting the Raman emission at wavelengths below 248 nm are a the Raman cross sections increase by 1 where is the excitation wavelength and that gives a factor of 81 increase in the Raman emission intensity when the excitation wavelength is decreased from 732 nm to 244 nm a factor of 3 reduction in wavelength b many of the biological molecules of interest absorb strongly at these wavelengths below 248 nm and so the Raman emission can be resonantly enhanced and c the particles should be easier to trap photophoretically at wavelengths below 248 nm because they are more absorbing.

For embodiments that use wavelengths shorter than 248 nm photophoretic bottle beam traps that use relatively few optical elements e.g. a single lens or a single aperture or a single phase plate may be particularly desirable because of the cost of certain optical elements e.g. beam splitters axicons waveplates etc. at these short wavelengths is significant and because the absorption of the light by these elements can be significant.

One or more embodiments of the invention may be useful in the pharmaceutical industry particularly in relation to drugs which are delivered as aerosols which are inhaled . Improvements are needed regarding the inhalation dosages achieved etc. The system and methods described here may measure both the drug composition and the particle size. Additionally they may be used in on line monitoring and in research and development. And one or more embodiments of the invention may be useful for researchers studying atmospheric and indoor aerosols including aerosol compositions responses to pollutants and sunlight and the effects of atmospheric aerosol on global climate via absorption scattering and acting as cloud condensation nuclei .

In some embodiments the system may be deployed in hospitals clinics emergency rooms public places shopping malls train and bus stations airports public transportation sports arenas etc. government buildings or other locations for monitoring air. In addition the systems may be deployed in a military context for instance at a military installation e.g. base in a vehicle on the battlefield etc. These systems can rapidly detect or characterize particles in air and help save lives in case of a biological agent attack.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications and to describe the actual partial implementation in the laboratory of the system which was assembled using a combination of existing equipment and equipment that could be readily obtained by the inventors to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

