---

title: Collection and analysis of customer data from application programming interface usage
abstract: A device may receive a request for analytics information associated with a user device. The device may retrieve application programming interface (API) information associated with the request for analytics information. The API information may include information associated with providing an authorization token and with providing user device information. The device may determine demographic information based on the request for analytics information. The demographic information may be associated with a user of the user device. The device may determine the analytics information based on an analysis of the API information and the demographic information. The device may provide the analytics information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218503&OS=09218503&RS=09218503
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09218503
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130724
---
An application programming interface API may require registration and authorization by an application device prior to providing permission to collect user device information from a user device utilizing the API. Upon request an API gateway may gather information from a user device and provide the information to a registered authorized application device.

The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

An API may specify how an application device may communicate and or receive information from an API gateway. An API gateway may register and authorize the application device seeking to access user device information e.g. via the API such as location information network usage information calendar information or the like. Registration and authorization may include providing information to the API gateway to authenticate the application device. The API gateway may receive requests for user device information from registered authorized application devices and may complete a requested transaction by gathering and providing the requested user device information. Implementations described herein may assist an API gateway in providing customer data analytics by using information associated with providing authorization and or user device information as well as demographic information.

Authorization information may refer to information collected when an application device requests authorization to collect user device information e.g. information associated with a user of a user device information associated with a subscriber of a user device information associated with the user device etc. . The API gateway may gather information associated with authorization such as information identifying the application device information identifying the type of user device information requested consent information e.g. information associated with gathering consent from the user device for user device information to be accessed or the like. The API gateway may provide the authorization information to the analytics device for processing and or storage as API information.

Transaction information may refer to information collected when an application device requests user device information. The API gateway may gather the requested user device information such as by querying a server querying the user device or the like. The API gateway may provide the user device information to the application device and may provide transaction information to the analytics device for processing and or storage as API information. The transaction information may include information associated with fulfilling the request for user device information such as information identifying the requesting application the user device information a timestamp or the like.

As further shown in the analytics device may provide analytics information to the API gateway and the API gateway may provide the analytics information to the application device for display to a user for further processing etc. In this way the API gateway may collect API information from authorization of an application device and from a transaction for user device information and may combine the API information with demographic information to provide analytics information.

User device may include one or more devices capable of connecting to network and providing user device information. For example user device may include a mobile phone e.g. a smart phone a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that may include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a computer e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer etc. a personal gaming system and or another similar type of device. In some implementations user device may include one or more computing programs associated with application device e.g. an application an app etc. . In some implementations user device may be capable of providing user device information to API gateway such as location information data usage information application usage information user information e.g. contact information calendar information reminder information photograph library information etc. or the like that may be processed and or stored as API information by analytics device .

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network e.g. a long term evolution LTE network a code division multiple access CDMA network etc. a public land mobile network PLMN a Wi Fi network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks. In some implementations network may include one or more connections between user device application device API gateway analytics device and or subscriber information device .

Application device may include one or more devices capable of requesting and receiving analytics information associated with user device . In some implementations application device may be associated with a computing program used by user device . For example application device may include a server associated with supporting mobile applications. In some implementations application device may include one or more devices configured to request and receive information from API gateway e.g. via network . In some implementations application device may include an application being operated on another device e.g. on user device on a server device etc. a device e.g. a server associated with an application being operated on another device e.g. on user device on another server etc. a device accessing an API interface via an API gateway or the like.

API gateway may include one or more devices capable of receiving generating processing storing and or providing information associated with user device such as an authorization to gather user device information analytics information or the like. For example API gateway may include a gateway a server a router a hub a switch a bridge etc. capable of receiving a request for information processing the request and retransmitting the request to a destination device such as user device e.g. for user device information such as location information data usage information or the like analytics device e.g. for analytics information or the like. In some implementations API gateway may provide an interface for requesting and receiving information such as an API.

Analytics device may include one or more devices capable of receiving generating processing storing and or providing information associated with user device . In some implementations analytics device may store authorization information and or transaction information. Additionally or alternatively analytics device may generate and or provide analytics information. For example analytics device may include a server capable of generating analytics information by processing information provided by API gateway e.g. via network . In some implementations analytics device may request and receive demographic information from another device such as subscriber information device .

Subscriber information device may include one or more devices capable of receiving generating processing storing and or transmitting demographic information associated with the user of user device such as user identification information e.g. a user name a user age a user gender a user contact address etc. user preference information e.g. mobile device purchasing information payment information etc. or the like. For example subscriber information device may include an HSS a user profile server function UPSF an HLR an authentication center AuC a demographic database server or the like.

The number of devices and networks shown in is provided as an example. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than those shown in . Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. For example while API gateway and analytics device are shown as separate devices API gateway and analytics device may be implemented in a single device. Additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more devices of environment .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit a graphics processing unit an accelerated processing unit a microprocessor and or any processing component e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that interprets and or executes instructions. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage device e.g. a flash magnetic or optical memory that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Input component may include a component that permits a user to input information to device e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch etc. . Output component may include a component that outputs information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component such as a transceiver and or a separate receiver and transmitter that enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface a Wi Fi interface a cellular network interface or the like.

Device may perform one or more processes described herein. Device may perform these processes in response to processor executing software instructions included in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number of components shown in is provided as an example. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in .

As shown in process may include receiving a request for authorization to access user device information block . For example API gateway may receive an authorization request from application device to access user device information associated with user device . User device information may include information associated with a user of user device e.g. a subscriber such as identification information payment information or the like and or information associated with user device such as a location a data usage a browsing history a contact list a network traffic usage an application usage storage information e.g. information associated with data stored using user device such as music storage data photographic storage data message storage data or the like calendar information or the like.

In some implementations API gateway may register application device as a registered application device. For example API gateway may gather information associated with application device such as an identity a server and or application location a network address or the like. In some implementations API gateway may determine information to be accessed by application device . For example API gateway may identify particular user device information e.g. a type of user device information that is to be gathered for application device .

API gateway may determine that user device information is to be gathered from a particular user device in some implementations. For example application device may provide information identifying the particular user device such as a phone identifier a mobile device identifier a universal resource indicator URI a universal resource locator URL an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI or the like.

As further shown in process may include determining whether consent is required from a user device block . For example API gateway may determine whether consent is required from a user of user device e.g. the user device that is associated with the user device information to authorize application device to access the user device information. In some implementations API gateway may determine whether consent is required based on the requested user device information. For example API gateway may require consent before allowing application device to access a particular type of user device information e.g. a location a contact list etc. associated with user device . Additionally or alternatively API gateway may determine whether consent is required based on a stored user device identifier. For example user device may indicate prior to the request for authorization that all requests to access user device information from user device require consent. In this case API gateway may associate the indication with a user device identifier e.g. associated with user device and require consent when application device requests to access user device information.

As further shown in if consent is required from the user device block YES then process may include receiving consent from the user device block . For example API gateway may receive consent from user device and may provide the authorization token as discussed herein in connection with block .

API gateway may receive consent from user device based on a saved preference in some implementations. For example user device may provide advance consent regarding particular user device information. Additionally or alternatively API gateway may receive consent based on querying user device . For example API gateway may send consent information e.g. information identifying the user device information that is being requested the identity of the requester etc. to user device and a user of user device may provide consent e.g. by providing input to user device . Additionally or alternatively API gateway may receive consent from the user of user device via another platform. For example API gateway may receive consent via an email authorization a telephone authorization etc.

As further shown in once consent has been received block or if consent is not required from the user device block NO then process may include providing an authorization token associated with receiving access to the user device information block . For example API device may provide the authorization token permitting application device to access the user device information. An authorization token may refer to a user specific query authorization containing one or more parameters such as an authorization token address identifier an API device identifier a validity period identifier or the like. In some implementations the authorization token may include information associated with the user device information request. For example the authorization token may include information identifying the requester e.g. an application device identifier the requested user device information user device etc. In some implementations the authorization token may include information allowing application device to request user device information directly from user device e.g. without using API gateway as an intermediary . Additionally or alternatively the authorization token may include information allowing application device to request user device information via API gateway .

API gateway may provide an authorization token that is valid for a particular period of time in some implementations. For example API gateway may provide an authorization token that expires after the particular period of time elapses. In some implementations API gateway may provide a permanent authorization token to application device . Additionally or alternatively API gateway may provide an authorization token to application device that is valid until user device invalidates the authorization token e.g. by revoking consent .

API gateway may determine the period of validity associated with the authorization token based on the user device information in some implementations. For example API gateway may provide an authorization token to access location information that is valid for a first period of time and an authorization token to access usage information that is valid for a second period of time. Additionally or alternatively API gateway may determine the period of validity based on user device . For example a first user device may allow an authorization token to be valid for a first period of time and a second user device may allow an authorization token to be valid for a second period of time. Additionally or alternatively API gateway may determine the period of validity based on application device . For example API gateway may provide an authorization token that is valid for a first period of time to a first application device and may provide an authorization token that is valid for a second period of time to a second application device .

As further shown in process may include receiving a request which includes the authorization token for the user device information block . For example API gateway may receive a request for the user device information from application device that includes the authorization token. In some implementations API gateway may process the authorization token to confirm that the authorization token is valid. For example API gateway may confirm that the authorization token has not expired.

As further shown in process may include providing the user device information block . For example API gateway may provide the requested user device information to application device . In some implementations API gateway may provide the user device information by sending the request to user device e.g. via network . For example API gateway may determine information such as location information application usage information or the like by querying user device . In this case user device may provide API gateway with a record of information provided directly to application device . Additionally or alternatively user device may provide the user device information to API gateway for distribution to application device . In some implementations API gateway may provide the user device information by querying another device such as a server a base station or the like. For example API gateway may provide user device information such as network access usage network traffic usage or the like by querying a mobility management entity and providing the user device information to application device .

As further shown in process may include storing API information based on the information associated with providing the authorization token and or the user device information block . For example API gateway may store API information and or may provide API information to analytics device for storage. API information may refer to information stored based on gathering and or processing information associated with providing the authorization token and or the user device information.

API information may include authorization information e.g. information associated with authorizing application device to access user device information in some implementations. For example authorization information may include identity information such as an application device identifier e.g. a server identifier an embedded application location identifier etc. a user device identifier and or a user device information type identifier e.g. information identifying the requested user device information such as a location a usage a network traffic type etc. . Additionally or alternatively authorization information may include authorization token information such as consent information e.g. whether consent was required how consent was provided how long consent is valid etc. authorization token information e.g. when the authorization token was requested how long the authorization token is valid how long the authorization token has been active etc. or the like.

API information may include transaction information e.g. information associated with the request for user device information in some implementations. For example transaction information may include the user device information such as location information application usage information contact information calendar information or the like. Additionally or alternatively transaction information may include information associated with providing the user device information such as a time at which the information was provided a requester identifier e.g. information identifying application device other user device information e.g. available user device information that was not requested by application device such as location information when application device has requested usage information application information e.g. information gathered about the application device requesting the user device information or the like.

Authorization information and or transaction information may be processed prior to storage as API information in some implementations. For example information may be rejected from storage based on the type of information e.g. location information may be permitted but identity information may be rejected the quantity of information e.g. location information such as global positioning system GPS coordinate information may have digits trimmed to reduce storage size or the like.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks different blocks fewer blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As shown in and by reference number based on user interaction with the Approve button user device provides consent for application device to access location information. As shown by reference number API gateway creates an authorization token and as shown by reference number provides the authorization token to application device . The authorization token includes information identifying application device e.g. Application ID ABCD the user device information to be provided and user device . As shown by reference number API gateway provides authorization information to analytics device such as an application device identifier e.g. Application ID ABCD a user device information request identifier e.g. that the request is for authorization to access location information a user device identifier e.g. User Device ID 1234 and a timestamp at which consent was provided e.g. Consent Timestamp 03 45 12 . Analytics device may further process the authorization information prior to storing the authorization information as API information.

As shown in and by reference number application device provides the authorization token to API gateway in order to receive the requested user device information. As shown by reference number API gateway queries user device to request location information.

As shown in and by reference number API gateway receives location information from user device e.g. GPS coordinates . As shown by reference number API gateway provides the location information to application device . As shown by reference number API gateway provides transaction information to analytics device to be stored as API information. The transaction information includes information identifying application device e.g. Application ID ABCD the requested information e.g. location information user device e.g. User Device ID 1234 a result of the request e.g. GPS coordinates 38.8 77.3 and a timestamp for the request e.g. 05 03 52 . Analytics device may process the transaction information prior to storing the transaction information as API information.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in process may include receiving a request for analytics information associated with a user device block . For example analytics device may receive the request for analytics information from application device . In some implementations analytics device may receive the request from application device via API gateway . The request may include a query e.g. one or more parameters associated with determining the analytics information . Analytics information may refer to information determined based on processing searching collecting filtering and or parsing API information and or demographic information.

Analytics device may receive the request for analytics information from application device based on satisfaction of a pre condition in some implementations. For example when API gateway provides user device information as discussed herein in connection with application device may request analytics information based on a result of the request for user device information.

A request for analytics information may be associated with a particular user device in some implementations. For example the request for analytics information may include information identifying user device . Additionally or alternatively the request for analytics information may include a request to identify one or more user devices based on a query. For example application device may transmit the query requesting that analytics device identify one or more user devices matching one or more parameters such as an API information parameter e.g. a location an application usage etc. a demographic information parameter e.g. a user gender a user age a user payment method etc. or the like.

API gateway may provide a user interface based on information associated with application device in some implementations. For example API gateway may determine that application device is being operated by a retail store and may provide a user interface for requesting analytics information designed for use by retail stores. In some implementations API gateway may provide an API e.g. an interface specifying queries that may be made to analytics device through which application device may request analytics information.

As further shown in process may include retrieving stored API information associated with the request for analytics information block . For example analytics device may retrieve API information associated with the one or more API information parameters. In some implementations analytics device may retrieve the API information from a storage device such as a server an external drive or the like. The API information parameter may include a location parameter e.g. a location where user device has been a location where user device currently is a location at which user device used an application etc. a storage parameter e.g. a quantity of stored music a particular stored music file a quantity of stored photographs a quantity of stored data a ratio of one type of data to another type of data in a user device memory etc. or the like. In some implementations API information may be retrieved based on demographic information. For example analytics device may determine multiple user devices that match a demographic information parameter and may access API information to sort amongst the multiple user devices .

As further shown in process may include determining demographic information associated with the request for analytics information block . For example analytics device may determine demographic information associated with one or more demographic information parameters. In some implementations analytics device may retrieve demographic information from subscriber information device . A demographic information parameter may include subscriber identity information e.g. a name a phone number an address a gender a salary an age etc. payment information consumer preference information or the like. In some implementations demographic information may be retrieved based on API information. For example analytics device may determine multiple user devices matching an API information parameter and may use demographic information to sort amongst the multiple user devices .

As further shown in process may include determining analytics information based on the stored API information and the demographic information block . For example analytics device may process the API information and the demographic information to determine analytics information. In some implementations analytics information may include information filtered based on one or more API information parameters and or demographic information parameters. For example analytics device may determine multiple user devices that match a first API information parameter a second API information parameter and a demographic information parameter. Additionally or alternatively analytics information may include information produced from the API information and demographic information such as a visualization an information graphic a chart or the like associated with user device .

As further shown in process may include providing the analytics information block . For example analytics device may provide the analytics information to application device . In some implementations analytics device may provide the analytics information for display. Additionally or alternatively analytics device may provide the analytics information for storage processing e.g. to be used for contextual advertising preferential application services etc. etc. In some implementations analytics device may request and receive consent from user device prior to providing information identifying user device in the analytics information.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks different blocks fewer blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As shown in and by reference number API gateway sends the query to analytics device . As shown by reference number analytics device retrieves API information identifying user devices e.g. user devices identified as 1234 5353 6462 9876 and 5555 that match the API information parameters of the query e.g. the USED Gambling App parameter and the AT Nevada parameter .

As shown in and by reference number analytics device requests demographic information associated with the user devices that satisfied the API information parameters. As shown by reference number subscriber information device returns gender age and salary information for the identified user devices .

As shown in and by reference number analytics device processes the demographic information to identify the results of the query e.g. user devices that match both the API information parameters and the demographic information parameters the user devices identified as 6462 and 9876 . As shown by reference number analytics device provides the analytics information to API gateway which as shown by reference number routes the analytics information to application device . As shown by reference number application device displays the analytics information via application device control unit . The user of application device control unit may then use the query results to target the identified user devices e.g. via contextual advertisements prioritized usage of an application etc. .

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

Implementations described herein may allow an analytics device to collect API information associated with authorization of applications and or user device information and provide analytics information based on the collected API information and demographic information.

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

As used herein the term component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software.

To the extent the aforementioned implementations collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

