---

title: Activity indicator
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for activity indication are disclosed. In one example, an activity indicator apparatus includes a housing, a visual indicator visible on a housing surface, and a power source. The apparatus includes a wireless communications interface configured to receive a signal indicating an activity of a user device, and an activity indication application configured to indicate the activity at the visual indicator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438716&OS=09438716&RS=09438716
owner: Plantronics, Inc.
number: 09438716
owner_city: Santa Cruz
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130718
---
The use of headsets in both the office and mobile environments has become commonplace. One problem with headset telephones however is that passers by may be unaware that the user of a headset telephone is carrying on a conversation and may therefore not afford the headset user the same deference as when a telephone user is holding a telephone handset to his or her ear. On the other hand passers by who notice that a headset user is wearing a headset may incorrectly assume that the user is carrying on a telephone conversation possibly causing the passers by to take unnecessary steps such as speaking in hushed tones or foregoing face to face conversations with the headset wearer in order to avoid interrupting the non existent telephone conversation.

Furthermore headsets are not only used with telephony systems but are widely used in a variety of computer and other multimedia applications particularly with the convergence of computer and telephony technologies. Examples of headsets designed to connect to computers or other processor based hosts include those adapted for various applications such as computer telephony generally referred to as softphones voice recognition language or speech learning audio listening for music training video etc. and or video game systems. Headsets can be used with softphones landline telephones and mobile telephones.

In order to prevent interruptions of phone conversations when a headset is in use it is desirable to have some sort of visual indication that the headset wearer is actively engaged in a phone conversation. With handsets this is intrinsically obvious but headsets may be worn whether or not the user is actually engaged in a telephone call. In the prior art there have been devices for indicating to onlookers that a user is on a telephone call and should not be disturbed or interrupted. However in the prior art devices for indicating headset activity have had only limited applications and limited operational flexibility.

Methods and apparatuses for activity indication are disclosed. The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Descriptions of specific embodiments and applications are provided only as examples and various modifications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. The general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is to be accorded the widest scope encompassing numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Block diagrams of example systems are illustrated and described for purposes of explanation. The functionality that is described as being performed by a single system component may be performed by multiple components. Similarly a single component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being performed by multiple components. For purpose of clarity details relating to technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention. It is to be understood that various example of the invention although different are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Thus a particular feature characteristic or structure described in one example embodiment may be included within other embodiments unless otherwise noted.

In one example an activity indicator apparatus includes a housing a visual indicator visible on a housing surface and a power source. The apparatus includes a wireless communications interface configured to receive a signal indicating an activity of a user device and an activity application configured to indicate the activity at the visual indicator.

In one example an activity indicator apparatus includes a housing having a first surface and a second surface a plurality of light emitting diodes visible on the second surface and a power source. The apparatus includes a wireless communications interface configured to receive a signal indicating an activity and a processor. The apparatus further includes a memory comprising an activity indication application configured to indicate the activity at the plurality of light emitting diodes responsive to the signal received on the wireless communications interface.

In one example an activity indicator apparatus includes a housing including a substantially planar form factor including a top planar surface and a bottom planar surface. The apparatus includes an adhesive material attached to the bottom planar surface where the adhesive material is arranged to enable attachment of the housing to a desired object. The apparatus further includes a plurality of light emitting diodes visible on the second surface a battery a wireless communications interface configured to receive a signal indicating an activity of a user device and a processor. The apparatus further includes a memory including an activity indication application configured to indicate the activity at the plurality of light emitting diodes responsive to the signal received on the wireless communications interface.

In one example one or more non transitory computer readable storage media have computer executable instructions stored thereon which when executed by one or more computers cause the one more computers to perform operations including detecting a usage activity of a headset. The operations include wirelessly transmitting a notification of the usage activity to an activity indicator device attached to an object and indicating the usage activity at the activity indicator device.

In one example a method includes detecting a usage activity of an electronic device and wirelessly transmitting a notification of the usage activity to an activity indicator device attached to an object. The method includes indicating the usage activity at the activity indicator device.

In one example one or more non transitory computer readable storage media have computer executable instructions stored thereon which when executed by one or more computers cause the one more computers to perform operations including detecting a usage activity of a headset and determining whether the usage activity is a listen only usage activity type or a listen and talk usage activity type. The operations include wirelessly transmitting a notification of the usage activity indicating either the listen only usage activity type or the listen and talk usage activity type to an activity indicator device attached to an object. The operations further include indicating the listen only usage activity type or the listen and talk usage activity type at the activity indicator device.

In one example a method includes receiving at an activity indicator device a notification of a headset usage activity indicating either a listen only usage activity type or the listen and talk usage activity type. The method further includes indicating the listen only usage activity type at a first LED group at the activity indicator device or the listen and talk usage activity type at a second LED group at the activity indicator device.

In one example a Bluetooth device in the form of a sticker attachable to a variety of objects provides information on headset activity. The Bluetooth sticker visually indicates if the user is on a call streaming audio or available. The user may be on a call using a softphone hardphone or mobile phone. The Bluetooth sticker utilizes the Bluetooth Low Energy BLE protocol of Bluetooth 4.0. The Bluetooth sticker has a user interface button to engage pairing mode and will pair to the native Bluetooth stack at a computing device which provides information to the Bluetooth sticker on headset activity. The computing device sends information to the Bluetooth sticker which indicates if the user is on a call streaming audio or available using softphones hardphones and mobile phones for sourcing this information. This information is gathered for all audio devices and sent to the Bluetooth sticker via the onboard native Bluetooth stack. The appearance of the Bluetooth sticker changes based upon the information it receives from the host computing device. The Bluetooth sticker indicates if the user is actively engaged in a call mobile hardphone softphone simply streaming audio or neither and therefore available.

In one example implementation the Bluetooth sticker is powered by either a rechargeable coin battery or a long lasting replaceable coin battery. In a further example solar cells may be used. In one example the Bluetooth sticker is approximately 2.5 inches wide and 3 inches long and desirably less than approximately 0.20 inches thick to maintain a sticker form factor. In one example the Bluetooth sticker utilizes an adhesive which offers firm holding power but allows for clean damage free removal. In one example operation light emitting diodes LEDs at the Bluetooth sticker emit light following a repeating headset pattern to indicate the user is on a call. These same LED s would become static and flash when the user places themselves on mute. Another group of LEDs emit light following a repeating treble cleft pattern to indicate the user is streaming audio.

In various examples the Bluetooth sticker is configured to indicate that a PC user desk phone user mobile phone user tablet user or console game player is engaged in an active softphone call listening to audio while playing a game or listening to audio while playing or streaming music or video. The Bluetooth sticker may include a user interface mechanism either at the sticker or at the host computing device allowing the user to indicate the user does not wish to be disturbed regardless of whether the headset is being worn. In this manner the user may manually indicate via the user interface mechanism that the user is engaged in a priority activity and does not want to be interrupted. In a further example the Bluetooth sticker provides battery charge state information or other information associated with the Bluetooth sticker to the host computing device which in turn may communicate this information to a server. The Bluetooth sticker may include environmental sensors that communicate state information to the host computing device. In one example a computing device application may poll the Bluetooth sticker for status information such as if the Bluetooth sticker is displaying an indication what is being displayed and the Bluetooth sticker battery level.

In the example shown in activity indicator is attached e.g. using the adhesive to a top surface of notebook computing device . Such placement of the activity indicator is particularly advantageous when the activity indicated is related to use of a headset with computing device and the user is seated in a position in front of the computing device viewing the device display screen. This is a typical usage scenario whereby a person wishing to communicate with the headset user approaches the headset user and sees the top surface of computing device and the user sitting behind the computing device wearing a headset. The person wishing to communicate with the headset user does not see the display screen of the computing device and therefore cannot see what activity the user is engaged in at the computing device . The activity indicator attached to the top surface is thus ideally positioned to indicate to the person approaching the activity of the headset user.

Furthermore in the example where activity indicator receives activity signals from computing device this position ensures that activity indicator is always within wireless communication range of computing device i.e. the device transmitting the activity signal . Furthermore the close proximity between activity indicator and computing device allows for the use of a very low power requirement wireless transmission protocol between activity indicator and computing device such as the Bluetooth Low Energy BLE protocol. In further examples activity indicator may be attached to different objects such as the back side of a desktop LCD monitor.

In one example audio activity detector detects a usage activity of the headset . For example detecting the usage activity of the headset includes detecting a telephony usage or detecting a music listening usage of headset with an application at computing device .

Audio activity detector transmits over wireless communications link a notification of the usage activity to the activity indicator attached to an object. Responsive to the notification activity indicator indicates the usage activity. In one example indicating the usage activity at the activity indicator includes activating one or more visual indicators e.g. LEDs on the activity indicator which allows observers around the headset user to quickly and easily tell not only that the user is online i.e. actively using the headset in some manner but the type of online activity as well. In further examples the visual indicators may be without limitation an LCD ePaper or organic light emitting diodes OLEDs .

In one example activity indicator receives a notification of a headset usage activity indicating either a listen only usage activity type e.g. music listening or a listen and talk usage activity type e.g. conducting a voice communications telephony call . Activity indicator indicates the listen only usage activity type at a first group of LEDs at the activity indicator or the listen and talk usage activity type at a second group of LEDs at the activity indicator .

In one example audio activity detector detects a usage activity of the headset . For example detecting the usage activity of the headset includes detecting a telephony usage or detecting a music listening usage of headset with an application at computing device . In one example audio activity detector monitors activity of the headset microphone i.e. it is transmitting an audio signal to determine whether the user is engaged in a listen and talk telephony usage or a music listening usage of headset .

Audio activity detector transmits over wireless communications link a notification of the usage activity to the activity indicator attached to an object. Responsive to the notification activity indicator indicates the usage activity. In one example indicating the usage activity at the activity indicator includes activating one or more visual indicators e.g. LEDs on the activity indicator .

Audio data is output from computing device and received at computing device via communication interface s which may include network interfaces wired communication interfaces and wireless communication interfaces. In one example audio activity detector is configured to detect whether a headset is being used with an audio application and configured to determine whether the usage is a listen only audio application e.g. media player or a listen and talk audio application e.g. VoIP application . For example audio activity detector may monitor communication interface s to determine whether audio is being transmitted to the headset only or whether audio is being both transmitted to the headset and received from the headset. In a further example audio activity detector utilizes an application programming interface API to identify and monitor usage of each audio application .

In one example the user interface of activity indicator is desirably limited so that the form factor size processing power requirements and power requirements can be minimized. In a further example a user interface may include various means to receive user input actions such as a power on button.

Memory represents an article that is computer readable. For example memory may be any one or more of the following random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory or any other type of article that includes a medium readable by processor . Memory can store computer readable instructions for performing the execution of the various method embodiments of the present invention. In one example the processor executable computer readable instructions are configured to perform part or all of a process such as that shown in . Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processor .

Communication interface s allow activity indicator to communicate with other devices. In one particularly advantageous example communication interface s is a Bluetooth subsystem utilizing the Bluetooth Low Energy BLE profile. In this manner the power requirement of activity indicator is kept to a minimum allowing for a smaller power source e.g. a smaller battery .

In further examples communication interface s may include but are not limited to a wireless transceiver an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting activity indicator to a telecommunications network such as a Bluetooth network WiFi network cellular network or an IP network. Communication interface s include any wireless communication interface including one or more short range wireless communication subsystems. The short range communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuit components for short range communication a near field communications NFC subsystem a Bluetooth subsystem including a transceiver or an IEEE 802.11 WiFi subsystem in various non limiting examples.

In one example operation the activity indicator includes a processor configured to execute one or more applications and operate the activity indicator to receive a notification of a headset usage activity indicating either a listen only usage activity type or the listen and talk usage activity type. The activity indicator indicates the listen only usage activity type at a first LED group or the listen and talk usage activity type at a second LED group where the LEDs are divided into the first LED group and the second LED group.

The second pattern shows a treble clef and the group of light emitting diodes forming the treble clef are dedicated to indicate that the user is engaged in a listen only application. In one example such indication may useful if the headset user has indicated a preference not to be interrupted while on a voice call but wishes to be interrupted if he or she is only listening to music. The use of the activity indicator to indicate the user is listening to music advantageously informs an observer that the user likely cannot hear the observer and the observer must therefore use more than just speech to get the user s attention and interrupt the user. In a further example the first pattern may use a first LED color and the second pattern may use a second LED color to further indicate to an observer the availability of the user. For example pattern may utilize red LEDs in order to indicate unavailability and pattern may utilize green LEDs to indicate availability.

In a further example more than two patterns or groups of LEDs may be utilized on activity indicator to indicate other usage types. In a further example the activity indicator may have different graphical images printed on the housing surface to indicate different usage activity where one or more LEDs are utilized to illuminate indicate each printed image.

In one example the top surface and the bottom surface are substantially planar and the housing has a thickness of less than 0.2 inches. In this example the activity indicator can advantageously be attached to a variety of high visibility locations which may be largely dependent on the user s work environment. Furthermore by utilizing a planar form factor it is possible to utilize patterns of LEDs as shown in . This advantageously allows for use of graphical pattern layouts which can easily and quickly be deciphered by an observer as to a headset user s current activity and also allows for indication of multiple variables.

At decision block it is determined whether the activity is a listen only usage activity type. If yes at decision block at block a notification of usage activity is transmitted to the activity indicator device indicating a listen only usage activity type. At block the activity indicator device indicates the listen only usage activity type.

If no at decision block at block a notification of usage activity is transmitted to the activity indicator device indicating a listen and talk usage activity type. At block the activity indicator device indicates the listen and talk usage activity type.

At block a notification of the usage activity is transmitted to an activity indicator device. In one example transmitting a notification of the usage activity to an activity indicator device includes wirelessly transmitting the notification from a computing device to the activity indicator device. For example the computing device is in communication with the headset the communication associated with the usage activity.

At block the usage activity is indicated at the activity indicator device. In one example indicating the usage activity at the activity indicator device includes activating one or more visual indicators on the activity indicator device. For example the one or more visual indicators are a plurality of light emitting diodes visible on a planar surface of the activity indicator device.

At block a notification of the usage activity is transmitted to an activity indicator device. In one example transmitting a notification of the usage activity to an activity indicator device includes wirelessly transmitting the notification from a computing device to the activity indicator device. In one example the computing device is in communication with the electronic device the communication associated with the usage activity. For example the computing device may be a personal computer notebook computer tablet computer smartphone or game console computer.

At block the usage activity is indicated at the activity indicator device. In one example indicating the usage activity at the activity indicator device includes activating one or more visual indicators on the activity indicator device. For example the one or more visual indicators are a plurality of light emitting diodes visible on a planar surface of the activity indicator device. In one example the process further includes detecting a state data at the activity indicator device and wireless transmitting the state data to the computing device. For example the state data may be a battery status of the battery at the activity indicator device or sensor data from sensors at the activity indicator device.

The exemplary computing device includes a display having a display screen a keyboard and a mouse . A cabinet typically houses one or more drives to read a computer readable storage medium a system memory and a hard drive which can be utilized to store and or retrieve software programs incorporating computer codes that implement the methods and processes described herein and or data for use with the software programs for example. A CD and a floppy disk are exemplary computer readable storage media readable by a corresponding floppy disk or CD ROM or CD RW drive. Computer readable medium typically refers to any data storage device that can store data readable by a computer system. Examples of computer readable storage media include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks magneto optical media such as optical disks and specially configured hardware devices such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices.

The computing device includes various subsystems such as a microprocessor also referred to as a CPU or central processing unit system memory fixed storage such as a hard drive removable storage such as a CD ROM drive display adapter sound card transducers such as speakers and microphones network interface and or printer fax scanner interface . The computing device also includes a system bus . However the specific buses shown are merely illustrative of any interconnection scheme serving to link the various subsystems. For example a local bus can be utilized to connect the central processor to the system memory and display adapter. Methods and processes described herein may be executed solely upon CPU and or may be performed across a network such as the Internet intranet networks or LANs local area networks in conjunction with a remote CPU that shares a portion of the processing.

While the exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described and illustrated herein it will be appreciated that they are merely illustrative and that modifications can be made to these embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Certain examples described utilize headsets which are particularly advantageous for the reasons described herein. Acts described herein may be computer readable and executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and stored on a computer readable memory or articles. The computer readable and executable instructions may include for example application programs program modules routines and subroutines a thread of execution and the like. In some instances not all acts may be required to be implemented in a methodology described herein.

Terms such as component module circuit and system are intended to encompass software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. For example a system or component may be a process a process executing on a processor or a processor. Furthermore a functionality component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices. The described subject matter may be implemented as an apparatus a method or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control one or more computing devices.

Thus the scope of the invention is intended to be defined only in terms of the following claims as may be amended with each claim being expressly incorporated into this Description of Specific Embodiments as an embodiment of the invention.

