---

title: Robust tilt and lock mechanism for hopping actuator
abstract: A tilt and lock apparatus that includes a tilt servomechanism, a spiral torsion spring, a lock wheel, and a lock hook is described herein. The spiral torsion spring is mechanically coupled to the tilt servomechanism and the lock wheel (which includes an opening). When a shaft is positioned through the opening, rotation of the lock wheel is in unison with rotation of the shaft. An external surface of the lock wheel includes one or more grooves. The lock hook includes a head that engages and disengages the grooves. The lock wheel is stationary when the head engages one of the grooves and is rotatable when the head disengages the grooves. The head and the grooves are geometrically aligned when engaged to prevent creation of a force that acts to disengage the head responsive to an applied force acting on the shaft.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09562560&OS=09562560&RS=09562560
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09562560
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131104
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

In various applications shafts are mechanically coupled to a payload where the shafts are desirably rotated to tilt the payload. However external forces applied to a payload can damage an apparatus that rotates the shaft as well as the payload itself.

By way of example a wheeled hopping robotic vehicle can include a hopping actuator e.g. a payload . The hopping actuator can be stored in a home position in line with a chassis of the hopping robotic vehicle to enable the hopping robotic vehicle to drive. In preparation for deployment of the hopping actuator the hopping actuator can be tilted. The hopping actuator can be deployed to cause the hopping robotic vehicle to propel off the ground. For instance the hopping actuator can be a piston cylinder. Fuel and oxidizer can be metered into the hopping actuator and ignited which causes a foot to extend from the bottom of the cylinder thereby propelling the hopping robotic vehicle upwards from the ground. The force generated during hopping can cause damage to conventional mechanisms utilized to tilt the hopping actuator.

Moreover the hopping actuator can be returned to the home position while in the air. If the hopping actuator fails to return to the home position prior to returning to the ground significant applied forces can be exerted on the hopping actuator. Such applied forces commonly damage the conventional mechanisms utilized to tilt the hopping actuator.

Described herein are various technologies that pertain to tilting and locking a payload mechanically coupled to a shaft. A tilt and lock apparatus includes a tilt servomechanism a spiral torsion spring a lock wheel and a lock hook. The spiral torsion spring can be mechanically coupled to the tilt servomechanism. Moreover the lock wheel can be mechanically coupled to the spiral torsion spring. The lock wheel includes an internal surface and an external surface. The internal surface of the lock wheel defines an opening through the lock wheel where a shaft can be positionable through at least a portion of the opening. When the shaft is positioned through the opening or a portion thereof rotation of the lock wheel is in unison with rotation of the shaft about an axis of the shaft. The external surface of the lock wheel includes one or more grooves. Additionally the lock hook includes a head that engages and disengages the one or more grooves of the lock wheel. The lock wheel is stationary when the head engages one of the one or more grooves of the lock wheel. Further the lock wheel is rotatable when the head disengages the one or more grooves of the lock wheel. The head and the one or more grooves of the lock wheel are geometrically aligned when engaged to prevent creation of a force that acts to disengage the head responsive to an applied force acting on the shaft.

The tilt and lock apparatus can receive the shaft that is mechanically coupled to the payload. The shaft can be positioned through at least a portion of the opening through the lock wheel and can directly engage the lock wheel e.g. the shaft and the lock wheel can be mechanically coupled when the shaft is positioned through at least the portion of the opening . Accordingly the lock wheel and the shaft rotate in unison about the axis of the shaft.

In accordance with various embodiments the tilt and lock apparatus can further include a locking servomechanism an arm member a coupler and a pin. The locking servomechanism can be mechanically coupled to the arm member and the arm member can be mechanically coupled to the coupler. The coupler can further include an aperture where the pin is slidable through the aperture of the coupler. Moreover a first end of the pin can be mechanically coupled to a lag side of the head of the lock hook. The tilt and lock apparatus can further include a compression spring the compression spring can be wrapped around at least a portion of the pin e.g. between the head of the lock hook and the coupler . The compression spring can create a force that acts to engage the head in a groove on the external surface of the lock wheel when the arm member is rotated towards the lock wheel by the locking servomechanism.

According to various embodiments described herein the tilt and lock apparatus can be included in a hopping robotic vehicle. For instance the hopping robotic vehicle can include a chassis a hopping actuator a shaft mechanically coupled to the hopping actuator and the tilt and lock apparatus. The tilt and lock apparatus can be mounted on the chassis of the hopping robotic vehicle. However it is contemplated that the tilt and lock apparatus can be utilized with other types of payloads that are mechanically coupled to the shaft rather than a hopping actuator. Moreover it is to be appreciated that the tilt and lock apparatus can be included in other types of devices other than a hopping robotic vehicle.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to tilting and locking a payload mechanically coupled to a shaft are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Described herein is a tilt and lock apparatus that can rotate a shaft that is mechanically coupled to a payload. Various examples set forth herein pertain to the payload being a hopping actuator which can propel a hopping robotic vehicle from the ground yet it is to be appreciated that the payload is not so limited e.g. the payload can be a camera or substantially any other payload that can be desirably tilted as described herein .

According to an example where the payload is a hopping actuator the hopping actuator can be stored in a home position in line with a chassis of a hopping robotic vehicle. Before hopping the tilt and lock apparatus can tilt the hopping actuator to a desired launch angle and lock the hopping actuator in place throughout the hopping impulse. The tilt and lock apparatus can be locked by engaging a head of a lock hook with a groove on an external surface of a lock wheel as described in greater detail herein. Once airborne e.g. after retraction of a foot of the hopping actuator the hopping actuator can be returned to the home position thus the tilt and lock apparatus can be unlocked the hopping actuator can be rotated back to the home position and the tilt and lock apparatus can again be locked upon reaching the home position. The foregoing desirably occurs in less time than a total flight time of the hopping robotic vehicle otherwise external forces can be exerted on the hopping actuator. If the hopping robotic vehicle hits the ground prior to the tilt and lock apparatus again being locked a spiral torsion spring can provide compliance e.g. to protect the hopping actuator and or a tilt servomechanism . Moreover the tilt and lock apparatus can handle significant forces caused by hopping as such loads pass directly through the tilt and lock apparatus. Further the head of the lock hook and the groove of the lock wheel are geometrically aligned so that hopping forces do not create forces that act to unlock the tilt and lock apparatus.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an isometric view of a tilt and lock apparatus . The tilt and lock apparatus includes a tilt servomechanism a spiral torsion spring a lock wheel and a lock hook . The tilt servomechanism is mechanically coupled to the spiral torsion spring . Accordingly the tilt servomechanism can drive the spiral torsion spring e.g. rotate the spiral torsion spring . For example the tilt servomechanism e.g. an output shaft of the tilt servomechanism can directly engage an inner end of the spiral torsion spring .

Further the spiral torsion spring is mechanically coupled to the lock wheel . While depicts the spiral torsion spring and the lock wheel being adjacent it is contemplated that there can be separation e.g. gap other structural component s with aligned openings s through which a shaft can be positioned etc. between the spiral torsion spring and the lock wheel so long as the spiral torsion spring and the lock wheel are mechanically coupled.

The lock wheel has an external surface that includes one or more grooves. Further the lock hook includes a head. The head of the lock hook can engage and disengage the one or more grooves of the lock wheel . The lock wheel is stationary when the head of the lock hook engages one of the one or more grooves of the lock wheel . Moreover the lock wheel is rotatable when the head disengages the one or more grooves of the lock wheel .

The lock wheel has an internal surface that defines an opening through the lock wheel . A shaft mechanically coupled to a payload e.g. a hopping actuator etc. can be positionable through at least a portion of the opening through the lock wheel . When the shaft is positioned through the opening of the lock wheel or a portion thereof rotation of the lock wheel is in unison with rotation of the shaft about an axis of the shaft. By way of example the shaft can be positioned through at least a portion of the opening of the lock wheel and can directly engage the lock wheel .

The head of the lock hook and the grooves on the external surface of the lock wheel are geometrically aligned. When the lock hook and one of the grooves of the lock wheel are engaged such geometrical alignment can prevent creation of a force that acts to disengage the head of the lock hook responsive to an applied force acting on the shaft. Moreover the lock wheel and the lock hook are made of materials with high ultimate strength which enables absorption of significant shock loads e.g. caused by an applied force acting on the shaft . For example the lock wheel and the lock hook can be made of a steel alloy however it is contemplated that other types of materials are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.

To initiate tilting the lock hook is disengaged from the grooves of the lock wheel . Thereafter the tilt servomechanism can rotate the spiral torsion spring . The rotation of the spiral torsion spring causes rotation of the lock wheel . Moreover the rotation of the spiral torsion spring causes rotation of the shaft when the shaft is positioned through the opening of the lock wheel or a portion thereof and directly engaged with the lock wheel e.g. the rotation of the lock wheel causes the rotation of the shaft . The rotation of the lock wheel is in unison with the rotation of the shaft about the axis of the shaft. Accordingly the tilt servomechanism can cause rotation of the shaft when the shaft is directed engaged with the lock wheel . During tilting the spiral torsion spring can provide compliance to prevent damage to the tilt servomechanism .

Upon the tilt servomechanism causing the shaft and the lock wheel to reach a desired angular position the lock hook can engage one of the grooves of the lock wheel . When the head of the lock hook is engaged with one of the grooves of the lock wheel an interface between the head of the lock hook and the groove with which the lock hook is engaged can absorb an applied force acting upon the shaft. Further when engaged the spiral torsion spring can be deactivated e.g. compliance is not provided by the spiral torsion spring when the head of the lock hook and the groove of the lock wheel are engaged .

The tilt and lock apparatus further includes a tilt block . The tilt block can retain the lock hook . While retained by the tilt block the lock hook can be pivoted e.g. to enable the head of the lock hook to engage and disengage the grooves of the lock wheel . Moreover a structural plate can be attached to the tilt block to prevent the lock hook from sliding out of position e.g. retaining the lock hook in a channel .

Reference is now made to which illustrates an exploded view of the spiral torsion spring the lock wheel the lock hook and the tilt block of the tilt and lock apparatus of . The spiral torsion spring includes an inner end and an outer end . The inner end can be mechanically coupled to the tilt servomechanism e.g. directly coupled to an output shaft of the tilt servomechanism . As illustrated the inner end of the spiral torsion spring can have a pentagon shape e.g. an output shaft of the tilt servomechanism can have a corresponding pentagon shape to directly engage the inner end of the spiral torsion spring yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

The spiral torsion spring can be a stiff spring. A maximum angular deflection of the outer end of the spiral torsion spring relative to the inner end of the spiral torsion spring can be 30 degrees for example. According to other examples the maximum angular deflection of the outer end of the spiral torsion spring relative to the inner end of the spiral torsion spring can be 25 degrees 20 degrees or the like.

The lock wheel includes an internal surface that defines an opening through the lock wheel . Moreover the lock wheel includes a lobe which has a hole through the lock wheel or a portion thereof and a lobe which has a hole through the lock wheel or a portion thereof . Further the outer end of the spiral torsion spring includes a hole . The hole of the spiral torsion spring corresponds to the hole of the lock wheel . For instance a connection mechanism such as a pin a screw or the like can be positioned through the hole of the spiral torsion spring and the hole of the lock wheel to directly couple the outer end of the spiral torsion spring to the lock wheel . Accordingly the outer end of the spiral torsion spring and the lock wheel can rotate e.g. about an axis of the shaft in unison.

According to the embodiment pictured in a shaft mechanically coupled to a payload can be positioned through at least a portion of the opening through the lock wheel . The shaft can be mechanically coupled to the lock wheel . More particularly the shaft can directly engage the internal surface of the lock wheel . For instance the shaft can have a corresponding square shape to directly engage the internal surface of the lock wheel when positioned through at least a portion of the opening .

By way of example the output shaft of the tilt servomechanism can rotate the spiral torsion spring . Such rotation of the spiral torsion spring can cause the lock wheel to rotate. Further the rotation of the lock wheel can cause the shaft mechanically coupled to the payload to rotate. Thus rotation of the output shaft of the tilt servomechanism drives rotation of the shaft mechanically coupled to the payload while the spiral torsion spring provides compliance when a large external force e.g. applied to the payload causes rotation of the shaft. The compliance provided by the spiral torsion spring helps protect the payload and the tilt servomechanism .

The lock wheel further includes an external surface that includes one or more grooves. In the example set forth in the external surface includes a first groove a second groove and a third groove collectively referred to herein as grooves . It is to be appreciated however that the claimed subject matter is not limited to three grooves included in the external surface of the lock wheel e.g. the external surface of the lock wheel can include fewer than three grooves or more than three grooves .

Each of the grooves includes a first tapered top edge and a second tapered top edge. For instance the groove includes a first tapered top edge and a second tapered top edge .

Further the lock hook includes a head and a shank . The head of the lock hook includes a first tapered lead edge and a second tapered lead edge .

The first tapered lead edge the second tapered lead edge and the tapered top edges of the grooves e.g. the first tapered top edge and the second tapered top edge the tapered top edges of the grooves and are beveled to enable engagement between the head of the lock hook and the grooves . While being tapered an interface between the lock hook and the grooves of the lock wheel is geometrically aligned so that forces applied to a shaft e.g. during hopping do not create forces that act to disengage the head of the lock hook from the grooves when engaged.

Moreover the lock hook includes a lag side of the head . The lag side of the head can be mechanically coupleable to a pin as described in greater detail herein. For instance the pin and the lag side of the head can be mechanically coupled utilizing a connection mechanism such as a pin a screw or the like.

The tilt block includes an aperture that passes through the tilt block . The tilt lock further includes a support portion . The support portion includes a channel . An end of the shank of the lock hook can be positioned in the channel . The lock hook pivots about the end of the shank positioned in the channel to engage and disengage the head and the grooves of the lock wheel .

The tilt block further includes a retention portion . The lock hook can be retained between the support portion and the retention portion . Further as described above the structural plate can be attached to the support portion to prevent the lock hook from sliding out of the channel when positioned between the support portion and the retention portion .

An amount of backlash between the head of the lock hook and each of the grooves can be substantially similar and or can differ. According to an example the first groove and the third groove can correspond to operational positions for a hopping actuator of a hopping robotic vehicle e.g. for associated launch angles while the second groove can correspond to a home position for the hopping actuator of the hopping robotic vehicle. Thus the head of the lock hook can engage the first groove or the third groove to deploy the hopping actuator or the head of the lock hook can engage the second groove to store the hopping actuator. Following this example a first amount of backlash between the head of the lock hook and the groove when engaged can be less than a second amount of backlash between the head of the lock hook and the second groove when engaged. Further a third amount of backlash between the head of the lock hook and the third groove when engaged can be less than the second amount of backlash between the head and the second groove when engaged. Moreover the first amount of backlash and the third amount of backlash can be substantially similar. Yet it is contemplated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

According to an example a shaft mechanically coupled to a payload can be positionable through the aperture of the tilt block . The shaft can further be positionable through at least a portion of the opening through the lock wheel . Further when positioned through at least a portion of the opening through the lock wheel the shaft can directly engage the lock wheel . For instance the opening of the lock wheel can have a square shape which can be directly engaged by a corresponding square shaped shaft. Yet again it is contemplated that substantially any other shape can be utilized.

Again reference is made to . The tilt and lock apparatus can further includes a pin a coupler an arm member and a locking servomechanism . Moreover the tilt and lock apparatus can include a compression spring as described herein. A first end of the arm member is mechanically coupled to the locking servomechanism . Accordingly the locking servomechanism can drive rotation of the arm member e.g. towards or away from the lock wheel . Further a second end of the arm member is mechanically coupled to the coupler . The coupler can include an aperture that passes there through.

The pin includes a first end that is mechanically coupled to the lag side of the head of the lock hook . Moreover the pin includes a stop on a second end. The pin is slidable through the aperture of the coupler . The stop prevents the pin from sliding out of the aperture of the coupler .

Moreover the tilt and lock apparatus includes a support structure . The tilt servomechanism and the locking servomechanism can be mounted on the support structure for instance.

Turning to illustrated is an isometric view of the lock hook the pin the coupler and the arm member of the tilt and lock apparatus of . As illustrated in a compression spring can be wrapped around at least a portion of the pin . For instance the compression spring can be wrapped around at least a portion of the pin between the head of the lock hook e.g. the lag side of the head and the coupler . The compression spring can create a force that acts to engage the head in one of the grooves of the lock wheel when the second end of the arm member is rotated towards the lock wheel by the locking servomechanism .

According to an example the locking servomechanism can disengage the head of the lock hook from one of the grooves on the external surface of the lock wheel e.g. by rotating the second end of the arm member away from the lock wheel . The tilt servomechanism can rotate the spiral torsion spring . Rotation of the spiral torsion spring can cause rotation of the lock wheel and rotation of the shaft with the rotation of the lock wheel being in unison with the rotation of the shaft about an axis of the shaft. Thereafter the lock hook and a second one of the grooves on the external surface of the lock wheel can be engaged. Such engagement can be caused by the locking servomechanism which rotates the arm member such that the second end moves towards the lock wheel causing the head of the lock hook to engage with the second one of the grooves .

The compression spring provides compliance to enable engagement of the lock hook with a groove e.g. one of the grooves on the external surface of the lock wheel . For instance engagement of the lock hook and the groove on the external surface of the lock wheel can be initiated e.g. by the locking servomechanism prior to the lock wheel being rotated to an angular position at which the lock hook and the groove on the external surface of the lock wheel are aligned. Accordingly the compression spring can cause the head of the lock hook to move into the groove on the external surface of the lock wheel upon the lock wheel reaching the angular position at which the lock hook and the groove are aligned. Thus the compression spring can cause the lock hook to fully engage the groove of the lock wheel as well as ease timing requirements for engaging the lock hook and the groove of the lock wheel .

Reference is again made to . The tilt and lock apparatus can further include one or more sensors. For example a sensor on the tilt servomechanism can detect movement and or an angular position of the output shaft of the tilt servomechanism . Following this example the locking servomechanism can use a signal from such sensor to initiate engagement of the lock hook and a groove on the external surface of the lock wheel e.g. compressing the compression spring as the lock wheel is rotated to the angular position at which the lock hook and the groove on the external surface of the lock wheel are aligned .

By way of another example the tilt and lock apparatus can include a sensor or a plurality of sensors that can detect when the head of the lock hook is fully engaged with a groove on the external surface of the lock wheel or fully disengaged from the grooves on the external surface of the lock wheel . Further the sensor can detect when the head of the lock hook is partially engaged with a groove of the lock wheel . Engagement of the lock hook and the lock wheel is designed to be self binding e.g. the head of the lock hook is not disengaged from a groove of the lock wheel by rotation of the lock wheel thus the tilt servomechanism can wait until the sensor detects that the head of the lock hook is fully disengaged from the grooves on the external surface of the lock wheel prior to causing the lock wheel to rotate e.g. the tilt servomechanism initiates rotation responsive to receiving a signal from such sensor indicating that the head of the lock hook is fully disengaged from the grooves of the lock wheel . Moreover it is desirable to mitigate application of large external loads to a payload e.g. by activating the hopping actuator until the head of the lock hook if fully engaged with a groove of the lock wheel accordingly a payload e.g. hopping actuator can be inhibited from being activated until the sensor detects that the head of the lock hook is fully engaged with one of the grooves of the lock wheel .

By way of illustration the sensor that detects when the head of the lock hook is fully engaged fully disengaged or partially engaged can be included in the coupler . Following this illustration the pin can include one or more markings that can be detected by the sensor as the pin is slid through the aperture . Based at least in part upon the detected markings the sensor can identify whether the head of the lock hook is fully engaged fully disengaged or partially engaged.

Turning to illustrated is an isometric view of an exemplary hopping robotic vehicle that can include the tilt and lock apparatus as described herein. The hopping robotic vehicle is a wheeled vehicle. In the depicted configuration the hopping robotic vehicle can include two tilt and lock apparatuses however it is contemplated that the hopping robotic vehicle can alternatively include one tilt and lock apparatus. Moreover the hopping robotic vehicle includes a chassis a hopping actuator and two shafts e.g. a shaft and a disparate shaft . The shafts can be mechanically coupled to the hopping actuator e.g. the shafts can be connected to the hopping actuator the shafts and the hopping actuator can be integrally formed etc. .

The tilt and lock apparatus is mounted on the chassis of the hopping robotic vehicle . Similarly the second tilt and lock apparatus is mounted on the chassis of the hopping robotic vehicle . Further the shafts are respectively positioned in the tilt and lock apparatuses such that the shafts rotate in unison with lock wheels of the tilt and lock apparatuses.

In the example shown in the hopping actuator is in a home position. The hopping actuator can be stored when in the home position. Such position can correspond to the lock hook being engaged with the second groove of the lock wheel however the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

When in the operation position shown in the hopping actuator can be deployed. A force caused during deployment of the hopping actuator can be imparted on an interface between the lock wheel and the lock hook e.g. since the head of the lock hook is engaged with the first groove or the third grove of the lock wheel . Accordingly the tilt servomechanism can be protected from such force by the lock wheel and the lock hook . Further the spiral torsion spring is not activated when the lock hook is engaged with the lock wheel

When tilting the hopping actuator from the operation position shown in to the home position shown in the lock wheel can be disengaged from the grooves of the lock wheel . Accordingly the spiral torsion spring can provide compliance in case a large external force is applied to the hopping actuator which thereby imparts an external force on the shaft . By having the spiral torsion spring provide compliance during tilting the tilt servomechanism and the hopping actuator can be protected.

Now turning to illustrated is a cut away view of the exemplary hopping robotic vehicle . depicts the tilt and lock apparatus mounted on the chassis . Although not shown in a shaft mechanically coupled to a payload e.g. the shaft mechanically coupled to the hopping actuator can be positionable in the tilt and lock apparatus as described herein. Further the tilt and lock apparatus can be a removable and replaceable module. Thus if damaged the tilt and lock apparatus can be removed from the chassis and a replacement tilt and lock apparatus can be mounted on the chassis .

According to various embodiments it is contemplated that a sensor can detect whether the lock hook is fully disengaged from the first groove on the external surface of the lock wheel. Responsive to detecting that the lock hook is fully disengaged from the first groove on the external surface of the lock wheel the rotation of the spiral torsion spring can be initiated. Moreover the sensor can detect whether the lock hook is fully engaged with the second groove on the external surface of the lock wheel. By way of example responsive to detecting that the lock hook is fully engaged with the second groove on the external surface of the lock wheel a payload e.g. hopping actuator can be deployed yet the claimed subject matter is not limited to such example.

Further as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something. 

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

