---

title: Systems and methods for communicating with a contact center
abstract: System and methods for communicating with a contact center are disclosed. A method includes: receiving a first message from a user equipment (UE), wherein the first message is received via a first communications protocol; transmitting a second message to a computing device of a contact center, wherein the second message is transmitted via a second communications protocol and optionally includes location information for the UE; and receiving a reply message from the computing device of the contact center.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09386407&OS=09386407&RS=09386407
owner: Good Egg Media LLC
number: 09386407
owner_city: Northbrook
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131224
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 848 083 filed on Dec. 26 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Currently public safety answering points PSAPs can only communicate with end users i.e. people who are in need of assistance via voice telephone calls. However this approach is limited in several ways. First people with hearing or speech disabilities may be unable to acquire assistance via voice telephone calls. Second people may prefer to use non voice communications to acquire assistance due to their situation whether background noise poor voice communications quality or an incident such as a hostage scenario where a voice call may not be possible for example. Lastly some assistance calls may be better served by non voice communications such as multimedia and detailed text messages for example. Also although PSAPs can accept phone calls from mobile phone users there are additional complications involved with voice communications between PSAPs and mobile phones.

Accordingly there remains a need in the art for improved systems and methods for communicating with PSAPs and contact centers in general.

One embodiment provides a method for communicating with a contact center. The method includes receiving a first message from a user equipment UE wherein the first message is received via a first communications protocol transmitting a second message to a computing device of a contact center wherein the second message is transmitted via a second communications protocol and optionally includes location information for the UE and receiving a reply message from the computing device of the contact center.

Another embodiment provides a computing device at a contact center. The computing device includes one or more memories storing a non voice communication application one or more processors configured to execute the non voice communication application and a display device configured to display a chat window associated with the non voice communication application wherein the computing device is configured to receive a first message from a server computing device wherein the first message optionally includes location information of a user equipment UE wherein the first message is received via a first communications protocol and wherein the server computing device previously received an initial message from the UE corresponding to the first message via a second communications protocol display an alert in the chat window on the display device associated with the first message and transmit a second message to the server computing device via the first communications protocol.

Yet another embodiment provides a user equipment UE which includes a wireless communications module configured to transmit a first message to a server computing device wherein the first message is associated with a first communications protocol and wherein the server computing device is configured to generate and transmit a second message to a contact center the second message corresponding to the first message and transmitted via a second communications protocol a display configured to display a reply message received from the contact center and a user input interface configured to receive user input of a text based response to the reply message from the contact center.

Current public emergency communications services standards are beginning to address text and multimedia messages but these additional services are not specifically designed for North America s most popular wireless messaging channels including short messaging services SMS and multimedia messaging services MMS . Certain standards are predicated on an all IP Internet Protocol access network such as LTE Long Term Evolution or WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access and SMS MMS messages are currently delivered over the SS7 Signaling System No. 7 wireless phone network.

In some cases short message service SMS text messages are constrained to 160 characters in the United States and are terminated to the Internet by a carrier SMSC short message service center gateway via short codes. Commercial codes typically range in length from 4 6 digits and are provisioned by each of the wireless carriers on their respective networks. Likewise the number 911 must be uniquely provisioned by each wireless carrier. The text control center TCC gateway geospatially routes 911 text calls from the wireless phone to the applicable PSAP public safety answering point or public safety access point on each respective wireless carrier network.

A current initiative by the FCC Federal Communications Commission aims to require wireless carriers to deliver text calls to PSAPs capable of receiving text messages. However the initiative does not mandate the interface by which PSAP s must receive display and transmit text calls. The interface work is being developed by the carriers in ATIS Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions and the workflow is being left to CPE computer premises equipment vendors that make the computing systems used at the PSAP. According to various embodiments PSAPs are able to receive SMS text messages via TTY teletypewriter web or Next Generation Internet Protocol IP interface.

What this means is that each PSAP must carefully select an interface that meets its technical capabilities and capacity. While TTY may be better positioned for a small PSAP it is unlikely to meet the needs of a large community in which police fire an EMT Emergency Medical Technician services are separately dispatched and tens of calls are being answered simultaneously. As such the FCC initiative requires that PSAPs prepare themselves by evaluating their capabilities and needs selecting platforms capable of processing and displaying text calls and educating the public.

The wireless carrier network such as a cellular network includes cellular towers and a text control center TCC e.g. for public safety including a short messaging service controller SMSC and a location based service controller . Additional wireless carrier networks may further be included in the system .

The UE is configured to communicate with server via the wireless carrier network . In some embodiments the connection between the wireless carrier network and the server is via standards based Internet Protocol interface technologies such the XML Extensible Markup Language protocol SMPP Short Message Peer to Peer protocol REST Representational State Transfer protocol and or MSRP Message Session Relay Protocol .

The server includes a software application executed by a processor that is configured to generate messages sent between the UE and a call center as described in greater detail herein. The server is in communication with one or more databases . The databases are configured to store data such as communication logs between the UEs and the contact centers . The databases can be any type of database including relational databases non relational databases file based databases and or non file based databases among others.

In various embodiments the server may comprise one or more physical or virtual computing devices. The server includes computer servers databases application layers and web servers. The server includes a a public switch telephone network PSTN connection to contact center for creating automated voice calls b a plain old telephone service POTS connection to contact center for creating automated voice calls and or c a SIP Session Initiation Protocol application session controller for communicating with contact center . The server may also include a geospatial router called a location to service translation LoST server. The LoST based upon the location of the cellular device determines the correct recipient contact center of a communication from the UE and destination Uniform Resource Identifier URI as described in greater detail herein. The LoST server may also provide the primary secondary and tertiary phone numbers to which the PSTN and or POTS automated calls generated by server are sent.

Also shown in are multiple contact centers . Each contact center comprises a commercial contact center command communications and control center C4 or a public safety answering point PSAP for example. The contact centers are comprised of one or more live call takers who upon receipt of an alert would open an application on a CPE customer premise equipment to maintain a communications session with a UE . Within the contact center the CPE accepts incoming communications from the server and based upon skills locations or other policies routes the next incoming communications session to a call taker. In some embodiments some contact centers do not route calls but the next available call taker picks up a new communications call upon receiving an incoming alert.

Embodiments of the disclosure provide systems and methods for communicating with a contact center for example an emergency contact center i.e. a 911 call center . A user of the UE initiates an SMS MMS message via the wireless carrier network . The SMS MMS message is routed to the server . The server then generates and transmits a message to the contact center . The message can be a telephone call via PSTN or POTS or a SIP Session Initiation Protocol message. The message may include the wireless phone number address or handle of UE in the automatic number identification ANI or SIP header that id displayed in CPE . SIP is a signaling communications protocol widely used for controlling multimedia communication sessions such as voice and video calls over IP networks. According to some embodiments for communicating with the contact center the server may generate and transmit a SIP INVITE message.

In some embodiments the SIP message may include location information for the UE such as a PIDF LO object Presence Information Data Format Location Object . In some embodiments location information may be required for requests for emergency assistance however location information may not be required for commercial contact center applications. In some implementations location information may define to which contact center PSAP C4 or commercial the messages are routed. For example when communicating with the number 9 1 1 physical handset location may be used as location information. However for other commercial implementations the call may be routed based on keyword handle or the number communicated with e.g. text short code or long code . As an example if a text is sent to a pizza chain restaurant e.g. by putting my ZIP code or city name in the message the message may be routed to the closest location of the pizza chain restaurant. Alternatively texting the city name e.g. New York or handle PizzaNewYork the message may be routed to the closest location of the pizza chain restaurant in that city.

In further embodiments an audio file may be included in the SIP message. The audio file may be informative such as you have a text call or empty. Any other type of file or additional information may also be included in the SIP message. For example the SIP message may include custom headers denoting what non voice multimedia date is being shared.

The SIP message from the server is received by the contact center . A call handler at a contact center responds to the SIP message and seeks the next available call taker at the call center . For example the call taker may see on a display of the CPE that the call is a non voice call and the call taker may be instructed to open an application or browser window on the CPE . As an example the call taker may be asked to open an application with a specialized icon for a non voice communications application. The wireless phone number displayed in CPE may be derived from the SIP message header or PSTN or POST automatic number identification ANI of UE .

The non voice communications application can be directly opened to an interface with the non voice communication end user i.e. with the UE such as a key coded URL Uniform Resource Locator with the mobile phone number handle or email address among other things. An example of such a URL is 

http blabla.net demo admin vDemo 1 action 1 cellNum 2243925199 cli entID 220 identificationKey v37rs6W1395nZ6212uSP

In the example URL 2243925199 is the mobile phone number of the UE and the identifcationKey is a secure code for each call center agent or position. The action field indicates which party initiated the conversation where 1 may represent that the end user initiated the conversation and 2 may represent that the call taker initiated the conversation. In some embodiments the message can be accessible by a call taker at the contact center when the URL is entered into a browser window that includes a mobile phone number of the UE and in some embodiments an authentication code identifying the call taker and or call taking position where the URL is only accessible on a preconfigured IP Internet Protocol address subnet mask or private network.

The call taker at the contact center and the end user of the UE may then communicate via messages routed through the server . In one example implementation the messages between the UE and the server are SMS MMS messages the messages from the server to the contact center are SIP messages and the messages from the contact center to the server are IP HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol messages or HTTPS Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure messages. Other implementations are also within the scope of embodiments of the disclosure as described in greater detail herein.

The entire non voice conversation between the UE and the contact center can be secured by white listing only the IP address and or subnet mask for the call center or communication recipient end user . The entire non voice conversation between the UE and the contact center may be logged by the server as a transcript for record keeping purposes in database .

In the event the aforementioned URL cannot be automatically invoked by the CPE of the call taker the call taker is directed to a webpage to input the mobile number or handle of the UE . This has the same effect as driving the call taker to the non voice conversation window via URL. is an example of a window in a non voice communications application of a CPE to query a current conversation via a mobile phone number device address or handle according to an example embodiment.

When the link is opened via URL or the call taker enters the phone number of the UE manually the call taker is taken to a chat window in the non voice communications application where the call taker can maintain communication with the UE or open multimedia profile data or the like.

When a new message arrives from the UE to the call center via the server the non voice communications application must notifies the call taker s via an alert and or audible sounds. Next the call taker opens the chat window that allows the call taker to engage in a continuous non voice communication e.g. a text messaging call . What comes next depends on the capability of the CPE platform. For example the call may be answered by a police department and can be transferred to a fire department. Alternatively the call taker can automatically send services to the location of the UE. When the non voice communication ends the call taker either a selects Release End Call or b uses the industry accepted term End of 911 call. In some embodiments a button in the user interface may be used to end the non voice communication.

Other common features of the chat window include location rebids and text call backs. As such as part of the text ESRP Exchange Solution Reviewed Program function the call taker is able to invoke Rebid Location which sends a message from the contact center to the server inquiring about an updated location of the UE. If the carrier of the UE supports location information then the server may query the carrier for updated location information of the UE and forward such information to the contact center. The carrier may return the latitude longitude and accuracy. If the location is not returned or the accuracy 9999 meters for example an accuracy of 9999 meters typically occurs on some wireless carrier networks when the cellular tower cannot be correctly determined the server will attempt to interrogate the carrier two additional times before querying the user for his her location as previously described. If the carrier of the UE does not supports location information then the server may query the user of the UE .

In some embodiments the call taker can manually input the location of the UE for example based on the chat history with the UE. In the event the end user manually provides location as part of the non voice communication the call taker has the ability to formally add the location to the conversation in the chat window as well as any additional information such as geospatial routing e.g. PSAP location of multimedia or incident identification. is an example of a user interface for a call taker to manually input information according to an example embodiment.

In the event the server is either unable to determine the location of the UE or the location is not of a prescribed accuracy the end user may be automatically asked for their location either in advance of or during the routing of the non voice communication. A sample query is 911 needs location. Reply with address as follows. Example 123 Main St Apt 23 Cider Creek Tex. If unknown reply NO. Once the address is acquired the phone may be located and accurately returned.

Once location is acquired the location is displayed on a map on the CPE with a circle showing the accuracy as shown in . In addition the approximate address and accuracy are identified in a dialogue box. In some embodiments location may be queried as part of a SIP call by having the contact center send either a SIP INFO message a HELD HTTP Location Enabled Delivery message or sending REBID in the SIP MESSAGE. Upon receipt the platform queries the carrier or application for the location of the end user.

As described in some embodiments the call taker may initiate the non voice communication i.e. instead of the non voice communication being initiated by the UE . This has the impact of creating a new conversation sending a message rebidding acquiring location a conversation requesting multimedia or transferring the conversation. In some embodiments the call taker has the ability to create a new conversation in the browser or via a URL and manage the conversation without the chat window. The call taker may also initiative the non voice communication by selecting Reactivate in the chat box window for any Archived conversation.

In some embodiments inside the chat window or via URL the call taker is able to create and store a session transcript that includes all non voice messages system commands and location updates. The transcript could be immediately downloaded or saved via FTP File Transfer Protocol or via other transport method to a specified location such as database .

In some embodiments multimedia such as pictures video web pages with profiles and or audio files can be submitted as part of a text conversation either by sharing the media directly via known technique such as MIME Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions encoding or via URL. A picture that is submitted as part of a non voice communications is delivered to the contact center via URL which can be embedded into the initiating SIP INVITE or queried as part of a URL for example where action 3 or other number within the requesting web service. In this case the end user will receive an MMS message with a query for a picture. The picture is subsequently delivered by web services URL HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol a SIP message SIP INVITE MSRP or XMPP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol call among others.

As described embodiments of the disclosure offer public safety agencies the ability to bridge the gap between legacy SMS services and i3 International IP Interconnection SIP messaging. The embodiments disclosed use the SIP Message Method SIMPLE to send receive messages. Location and pictures are currently embedded in the messages.

In a first use case Text to 911 a mobile phone user submits an SMS message to a short code corresponding to the server or to 911 the location is determined and a message is geospatially routed to the appropriate PSAP via SIP message.

In a second use case Picture to 911 a mobile phone user calls or submits an SMS message or text communication to a PSAP and the PSAP queries the user for a picture message. The picture is submitted via MMS message with picture location embedded into MMS message. In some embodiments the MMS message may use MSRP Message Session Relay Protocol .

As described various types of SIP messages may be submitted from the contact center to the server . One example is a REBID message where the contact center requests updated location information. The sever may respond to the contact center with a message such as 

Another example is a PICS message where the contact center requests pictures from the mobile phone user. The sever sends an MMS to the mobile phone user such as Please reply with pictures and optional text. When the server receives the picture from the mobile phone user the server may save the picture in a database record the URL of the picture and respond to the call center with the URL of the picture such as 

Another example is an END OF CALL message. The call center submits the END OF CALL message to the server and the server sends an SMS to the mobile phone user such as Your SMS session is closed. New calls start a new session.

Many peer to peer text messaging applications may support foreign language characters. Both English and Non English text calls whether using English characters numbers special characters and foreign language characters are within the scope of the disclosure. Most of the popular language translation services do not support text calls however language detection in the text application helps to determine the language so the call can be routed to a multilingual call taker relayed or refused the call as per the PSAP s policies. Automated language translation while neither perfect nor ideal may be performed under some circumstances.

As described in some embodiments pictures may be solicited as part of either a voice or text call. This is accomplished by integrating Acquire Media on the call taker s console or via a PICS command. The solicited MMS work flow is as follows the wireless user receives an SMS MMS message Reply and attach media. The user replies to the MMS message and attaches the media and optional text. Picture and video data is forwarded to the contact center as a URL link to the multimedia for example in the .JPEG or .3GP formats. The workflow depends on the agency s policies and archival policies. Because pictures are a few hundred kilobytes and video several megabytes the archival system must be sized appropriately. In some embodiments in order to mitigate spam multimedia data may only be solicited by a call taker otherwise the message is blocked.

According to various embodiments all messages can be delivered securely using encryption white listing and dedicated communication links. This mitigates the burden on the PSAP and allows for centralized management of the application s performance and health. This also creates new business models intended to contain the cost on new equipment.

In sum text and multimedia communication with a contact center creates new communication channels for communities desperately seeking alternatives to voice. Text and multimedia communication offer richer evidentiary data that maximizes situational awareness in the field.

As shown the method begins at step where the server such as sever in receives an initial message from a UE user equipment . In one embodiment the initial message may be an SMS or MMS message received via a wireless carrier network such as wireless carrier network . In other embodiments the initial message may be any other type of message including instant messages social networking messages such as Twitter direct messages and Facebook messages and email among others.

At step the server determines whether the carrier of the UE supports location information. If the server determines that the carrier of the UE does support location information then the method proceeds to step . At step the server interrogates the carrier of the UE for location information about the UE. The method then proceeds to step described below.

If at step the server determines that the carrier of the UE does not support location information then the method proceeds to step . At step the server queries the UE for location information. The query may be in the same format protocol e.g. SMS MMS as the initial message received from the UE or another format protocol. At step the server receives location information from the UE.

At step the server determines whether the location information received from the UE is valid. If at step the server determines that the location information is valid the method proceeds to step .

At step the server sends a message to a location specific contact center. In one embodiment the message is a SIP message such as a SIP INVITE message. The message to the location specific contact center includes embedded location information and or other information about the UE.

If at step the server determines that the location information is invalid the method proceeds to step where the servers sends a message e.g. SIP message to a default contact center and or contact center position.

At step the server receives a reply message from contact center. The reply may be in the form of an IP HTTP message. The reply message may have been typed in or selected from a listing of pre typed messages entered by a call taker at the contact center. In some embodiments in response to receiving an initial message that originated at the UE the computing device at the contact center automatically sends a return message to the server which is forwarded to the UE. The return message may include actionable information such as one or more of credentials a URL link and a reference to a downloadable client application which if acted upon by the UE allows the UE to communicate directly with the contact center for example via a second communications protocol such as real time video.

Referring again to at step the server determines whether the reply message from the contact center is a message inquiring about updated location information e.g. a REBID message . If the server determines that the reply message from the contact center is a message inquiring about updated location information then the method proceeds to step described above.

If at step the server determines that the reply message from the contact center is not a message inquiring about updated location information i.e. the message is a non voice communication intended for the UE then the method proceeds to step where the server forwards the reply message to UE. The forwarding of the reply message to the UE may be in the same format protocol as the initial message received from the UE. In some embodiments the server may further notify the contact center that the reply message was forwarded to the UE.

At step the server receives a response from UE and forwards the response to contact center. The method then returns to step thereby allowing the contact center and the UE to communicate with one another via the non voice communication until the communication session is terminated. In one embodiment the messages transmitted from the server to the UE and from the UE to the server are transmitted via a first communications protocol and the messages transmitted from the server to the contact center and from the contact center to the server are transmitted via a second communications protocol.

The memory includes various applications that are executed by processor including installed applications an operating system and software application . In embodiments where the computing device comprises the CPE the software application comprises a non voice communication application. In embodiments where the computing device comprises the server the software application comprises a software application configured to send and receive messages between a UE and a contact center .

In the illustrated embodiment of the computing device includes one or more processor s memory a network interface one or more storage devices a power source output device s and input device s . The computing device also includes an operating system and a communications client that are executable by the computing device . Each of components and is interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications in any operative manner.

As illustrated processor s are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within computing device . For example processor s execute instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . Memory which may be a non transient computer readable storage medium is configured to store information within computing device during operation. In some embodiments memory includes a temporary memory area for information not to be maintained when the computing device is turned OFF. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . Memory maintains program instructions for execution by the processor s .

Storage devices also include one or more non transient computer readable storage media. Storage devices are generally configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard disks optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

The computing device uses network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks. Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include cellular network interface wireless network interface Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and USB Universal Serial Bus among others. In some embodiments the computing device uses network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device a mobile phone of another or other networked computing device.

The computing device includes one or more input devices . Input devices are configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio video or other sensing feedback. Non limiting examples of input devices include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system camera a video recorder a microphone a GPS module or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user or sensing the environment. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices are also included in computing device . Output devices are configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio and or video stimuli. Output devices may include a display screen part of the presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user. In some embodiments a device may act as both an input device and an output device.

The computing device includes one or more power sources to provide power to the computing device . Non limiting examples of power source include single use power sources rechargeable power sources and or power sources developed from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material.

The computing device includes an operating system . The operating system is software stored in a memory and executed by a processor. The operating system controls operations of the components of the computing device . For example the operating system facilitates the interaction of communications client with processors memory network interface storage device s input device output device and power source .

As also illustrated in the computing device includes communications client . Communications client includes communications module . Each of communications client and communications module includes program instructions and or data that are executable by the computing device . For example in one embodiment communications module includes instructions causing the communications client executing on the computing device to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure. In some embodiments communications client and or communications module form a part of operating system executing on the computing device .

For situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect personal information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to retrieve content i.e. recorded voicemails from a content server i.e. a voicemail server . In addition certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be anonymized so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as for example to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about him or her and used by the systems discussed herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and at least one and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed subject matter especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of the term at least one followed by a list of one or more items for example at least one of A and B is to be construed to mean one item selected from the listed items A or B or any combination of two or more of the listed items A and B unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or example language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the disclosed subject matter and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented as a program product for use with a computer system. The program s of the program product define functions of the embodiments including the methods described herein and can be contained on a variety of computer readable storage media. Illustrative computer readable storage media include but are not limited to i non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as CD ROM disks readable by a CD ROM drive flash memory ROM chips or any type of solid state non volatile semiconductor memory on which information is permanently stored and ii writable storage media e.g. floppy disks within a diskette drive or hard disk drive or any type of solid state random access semiconductor memory on which alterable information is stored.

Variations of the embodiments disclosed herein may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

