---

title: Inline data encryption
abstract: Organizations maintain and generate large amount of sensitive information that needs to be saved electronically and there is a need to store that data remotely with a data storage service provider. To prevent unauthorized access to the information stored by organizations on storage provided by the service provider special cryptographic devices, such as an Inline Data Encryptor, can be used to ensure that the information remains secret. The Inline Data Encryptor uses a fill device with secret cryptographic information to encrypt data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09515997&OS=09515997&RS=09515997
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09515997
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130719
---
The security of computing resources and associated data is of high importance in many contexts. As an example organizations often utilize networks of computing devices to provide a robust set of services to their users. Networks often span multiple geographic boundaries and often connect with other networks. An organization for example may support its operations using both internal networks of computing resources and computing resources managed by others. Computers of the organization for instance may communicate with computers of other organizations to access and or provide data while using services of another organization. In many instances organizations configure and operate remote networks using hardware managed by other organizations thereby reducing infrastructure costs and achieving other advantages. With such configurations of computing resources ensuring that access to the resources and the data they hold is secure can be challenging especially as the size and complexity of such configurations grow.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Techniques described and suggested herein relate to enhancements for data security in a manner that reduces risks associated with data transmission and or storage. In various embodiments a device used for encrypting data such as an Inline Data Encryptor IDE that is capable of connecting to a user device e.g. laptop computer smart phone or tablet encrypts data transmitted from the user device before the data is received by a data storage service provider hereinafter service provider for storage with the service provider. In an embodiment a connection is established between the user device and the Inline Data Encryptor the then user selects data via the user device and an operation to be performed on the data such as backup or restore operations. The data is to be store on or retrieved from a service provider. The user may provide credentials to be authenticated with a service provider before the operation is allowed on the service provider s equipment. Once the user has selected data and an operation the data is transferred from the user device to the Inline Data Encryptor.

The Inline Data Encryptor then attempts to detect a fill device which in an embodiment is a physical key and a connection to the user device. In various Embodiments detection by the Inline Data Encryptor of a physical key causes further operation by the Inline Data Encryptor. The physical key may be inserted directly into the Inline Data Encryptor or within a predetermined proximity to the Inline Data Encryptor. Furthermore the physical key can be a Crypto Ignition Key CIK or any other device capable of loading cryptographic keys into an encryption device. While physical objects e.g. keys are used throughout for the purpose of illustration the scope of the present disclosure includes any devices which may be referred to as fill devices from which cryptographic information can be provided to the Inline Data Encryptor whether via a direct physical connection a wireless connection or over a network e.g. over a secure intranet . Generally a fill device may be any device configured to load cryptographic information e.g. cryptographic keys into an inline data encryptor. Fill devices may operate in accordance with various key fill protocols such as DS 101 and DS 102.

The Inline Data Encryptor then receives credentials for use with the service provider such as a private key used to sign data. The Inline Data Encryptor further obtains cryptographic keying information from the CIK or a similar physical key and uses the keying information to perform an operation on the data selected by the user. For example the user may select data to be copied from the user device to the service provider s remote storage the data is transferred to the Inline Data Encryptor and the keying information obtained from the physical key is used to encrypt the data. Once the Inline Data Encryptor encrypts the data it is signed with the user s private key and the data along with the signature is uploaded to the service provider for storage. If the upload fails an error message may be returned to the user. The data on the user device may be classified data when transmitted to the Inline Data Encryptor the data may then be unclassified once it is transmitted from the Inline Data Encryptor because the data may not be decipherable by others outside of user or the user s organization

In various embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor may be located on the same network or virtual network as the user and operate as a proxy between the user and the service provider. For instance in an embodiment the Inline Data Encryptor is located in a data center on site. When the user wishes to store data remotely with the service provider the user then selects data to store is prompted for login information related to the service provider the data and the login information are then transmitted to the Inline Data Encryptor which then encrypts the data and sends the now encrypted data and login information to the service provider for authentication and storage. Alternately the Inline Data Encryptor may be physically connected to the user device. For instance in an embodiment the user connects the Inline Data Encryptor physically to the device by Universal Serial Bus USB or external Serial Attachment eSATA . Once connected the user selects files to be stored by the service provider and that data is transferred to the Inline Data Encryptor over the physical connection established by the user. The Inline Data Encryptor may also have a user interface for interacting with the user. The interface may include a mechanism for accepting credentials from the user such as a username and password or the interface maybe capable of collecting biometric data such as a thumb print or retinal scan.

In various embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor may also be used to retrieve and decrypt information stored with the service provider. For instance in an embodiment the user selects data to retrieve from the service provider. The service provider transmits the data to the Inline Data Encryptor which then decrypts the data with one or more cryptographic keys and transmits decrypted the data through a network connection to the user device. The Inline Data Encryptor may also include all the software required to allow the users to select the data select an operation and transfer the data to the Inline Data Encryptor. This software may be automatically downloaded and installed on the user device once a connection is established between the Inline Data Encryptor and the user device. In various embodiments a web browser running on the user device may make API calls to the Inline Data Encryptor. The Inline data encryptor may in various embodiment contain executable code that when executed emulates the service providers API.

In various embodiments the physical key or CIK may include a plastic housing and contain Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM or other form of memory. The memory may be used to store cryptographic information such as encryption keys. The memory may also store multiple keys for use in key rotation schema. The physical key may have notches or grooves that when inserted into a lock and turned operates the lock s mechanism. The notches or grooves in the physical key may also encode information used by the Inline Data Encryptor. In various embodiments the physical key may be an object various sizes and shapes suitable for use in an environment such as depicted in .

The Inline Data Encryptor may use a stream cipher e.g. RC4 HC 256 A5 1 Rabbit or other suitable encryption algorithm to encrypt data as it is transmitted to the service provider. In various embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor may additionally or alternatively use a block cipher e.g. RC5 Advanced Encryption Standard AES Blowfish or other suitable encryption algorithm to encrypt the information. Once encrypted by the Inline Data Encryptor the information may be passed as cipher text to the service provider .

Accordingly as illustrated in the environment includes a service provider for providing services to the user through the user device . The computing resource service provider may be an organization that hosts various computing resources on behalf of one or more customers. For example a computing resource service provider may operate one or more facilities that are used to host various computing hardware resources such as hardware servers data storage devices network devices and other equipment such as server racks networking cables and the like. The computing resource hardware may utilize its computing hardware resources to operate one or more services. Such services may include services that enable customers of the computing resource service provider to remotely manage computing resources to support the customers operations while reducing or even eliminating the need of the customers to invest in physical equipment. Example services include but are not limited to various data storage services object based data storage services archival data storage services database services and the like program execution services and other services. The services may be used by customers to support a wide variety of activities such as operating a website operating enterprise systems supporting an organization distributed computation and or other activities.

Once a user has been granted access to a service provider resource the user may then through user device access the resource and perform operations. In various embodiments the user can backup or restore data store remotely with the service provider through the Inline Data Encryptor . For example in various embodiments the user may through the Inline Data Encryptor encrypt data and cause the encrypted data to be stored persistently with the data storage service provider. The Inline Data Encryptor may be located in the data center and operates as a proxy between the service provider and the user. When operating as a proxy between the service provider and the user the Inline Data Encryptor may require the user to provide the Inline Data Ecryptor with log in credentials for the service provider the user is attempting to access.

In various embodiments the user may select one or more files to store remotely on one or more storage devices provided by the service provider. In some examples the user may select files by highlighting or dragging a selection box over graphical representation of the files such as in a Graphical User Interface GUI . The user device may establish a networked connection with the Inline Data Encryptor such as through Application Programming Interface API calls to the Inline Data Encryptor . The API calls maybe made by a web browser on the user device or similar program. In various embodiments the user device may establish a network connection to the Inline Data Encryptor and execute executable code received directly from the Inline Data Encryptor or download the software from the Inline Data Encryptor to the user device. Once the data is selected the user may select an operation to be performed on the data. As an example the user may select the operation by a right click of a pointing device and selecting from a drop down menu or dragging and dropping highlight items onto a mapped drive representing remote storage provided by the service provider. The user may also select files and operations through command line operation. In various embodiments the user may provide user credentials to the Inline Data Encryptor through the user interface on the user device. For example in various embodiments the user may be presented with a log in screen on the user device and using the keyboard or touch screen on the user device enter log in information which may be transmitted to the Inline Data Encryptor.

As discussed above various embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to encrypting data to be store remotely. The encryption maybe provided by an Inline Data Encryptor as described above. accordingly shows an illustrative example of an Inline Data Encryptor in accordance with various embodiments. The Inline Data Encryptor may include a housing the housing may be ruggedized for various application. In various embodiments that the housing may be tamper evident including one or more sensors configured to detect tampering such that if tampering of the Inline Data Encryptor is detected the memory may be erased such as by cutting power to volatile memory and or issuing a SecureErase command to an SSD. In these instances the Inline Data Encryptor may include a battery to maintain back up power in the event a tampering event includes cutting AC power to the Inline Data Encryptor. In various embodiments the housing may be adapted for use in a server array or server rack as described later with reference to .

In various embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor may include a user interface such as a screen and keys . The screen may be an LCD or touch screen and may be used to display information to the user or the operational status of the Inline Data Encryptor. The keyboard may be a full QWERTY keyboard or some portion thereof. The Inline Data Encryptor may also include a key reader used to detect the presence of a physical key. The key reader may include a small hole for inserting the physical key into a lock. While key readers are used throughout for the purpose of illustration the scope of the present disclosure includes any devices which may be referred to as fill device reader from which cryptographic information can be obtained from a fill device. In various embodiments the key reader not only detects the presence of the physical key but enables the transfer of information such as a secret key or login credentials between the physical key and the Inline Data Encryptor. By way of non limiting example the key reader can be a USB port for accepting a USB devices and transferring information from the physical key to the Inline Data Encryptor. In various embodiments the key reader can be a contact or contactless smart card reader a Radio Frequency Identification device RFID a Near Field Communication device NFC a short wavelength radio device or similar device capable of transferring information.

In various embodiments the physical key may be unique and tamper proof in order to prevent duplication. In some embodiments the key maybe duplicated and distributed to various geographical locations in order to facilitate the transmission of encrypted data and enable decryption of data at its terminus. The physical key may be a common fill device CFD or other device capable of receiving keying material and loading the received keying material onto a cryptographic device. For example the fill device may be a CIK or a computing device with a key management console connected over a network to one or more cryptographic devices such as an Inline Data Ecryptor. In various embodiments the physical key can be a key FOB the FOB can be used by the Inline Data Encryptor to provide two factor authentication. The physical key may also contain EEPROM memory for storing cryptographic information. In various embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor can through the key reader detect the presence of the physical key and obtain keying information from the memory of the physical key. For example in some embodiments the physical key may contain EEPROM memory and a short wavelength radio device for communication the information store in the EEPROM memory. The Inline Data Encryptor can then use the keying information to encrypt data. The physical key maybe part of or made from a another device such as a smart phone or tablet. The Inline Data Encryptor in various embodiments can further encrypt the data with information stored in the Inline Data Encryptor.

The bus subsystem may provide a mechanism for enabling the various components and subsystems of device system to communicate with each other as intended. Although the bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses.

The network interface subsystem may provide an interface to other device systems and networks. The network interface subsystem may serve as an interface for receiving data from and transmitting data to other systems from the device system . For example the network interface subsystem may enable an organization to connect the device to a sever array in a data center and operate as a proxy between users connected locally to the data center and the remote service provider. For example as will be illustrated in the user may utilize the device to transmit encrypted data to a remote service provider for secure storage over a network such as the Internet. Additionally the user may use the device to decrypt data stored remotely by the service provide and receive the data in plain text form. The network interface subsystem may also facilitate the receipt and or transmission of data on other networks such as an organizations intranet.

The user interface input devices may include one or more buttons as illustrated in a keyboard pointing devices such as an integrated mouse trackball touchpad or graphics tablet a scanner a barcode scanner a fingerprint scanner a retinal scanner a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In general use of the term input device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for inputting information to the device system .

User interface output devices may include a display subsystem a printer or non visual displays such as audio output devices etc. The display subsystem may be a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED display or a projection or other display device. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for outputting information from the device system . The output device s may be used for example to present user interfaces to facilitate user interaction with applications performing processes descried herein and variations therein when such interaction may be appropriate.

The storage subsystem may provide a computer readable storage medium for storing the basic programming and data constructs that may provide the functionality of at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. The applications programs code modules instructions that when executed by one or more processors may provide the functionality of one or more embodiments of the present disclosure may be stored in the storage subsystem . These application modules or instructions may be executed by the one or more processors . The storage subsystem may additionally provide a repository for storing data used in accordance with the present disclosure. The storage subsystem may comprise a memory subsystem and a file disk storage subsystem . The file disk storage subsystem may be used to store data selected by the user to have a cryptographic operation performed on it temporarily before being transmitted to the user or the service provider.

The memory subsystem may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions may be stored. The file storage subsystem may provide a non transitory persistent non volatile storage for program and data files and may include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media a Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM drive an optical drive removable media cartridges and other like storage media.

The key reader may include one or more of readers including a contact smart card reader contactless smart card reader key hole USB port SATA port NCF port RFID port or short range radio receiver and other types of readers or data transmission devices. The key reader may operate as a means for the device to detect physical keys and obtain information from one or more physical keys. For example in various embodiments the key reader may accept the physical key by way of a small hole in a lock the physical key may notches or grooves that when inserted into a lock and turned operates the lock s mechanism. This may enable the device to obtain keying information from the physical key. The keying information may be store on memory housed inside the physical key. The key can have external contacts to enable the key reader to read the physical key s memory. In some embodiments physical key may be capable of contactless communication with the key reader such as contactless smart card technology. In either contact or contactless operation the key reader can read keying information from the physical key and communicate the information to other parts of the device through the bus system . In various embodiments the key reader may function to detect physical objects for use with the Inline Data Encryptor.

The TPM includes a memory subsystem including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed cryptographic information may be stored such as a root key or user private. The device may also store keys in RAM for temporary cryptographic processing. The cryptographic information stored in memory maybe use in combination with cryptographic information obtained from the physical key to encrypt information stored in the storage subsystem or on a stream level as it come into the device through the network interface . That data to be encrypted may also be stored in file storage subsystem until it is ready for cryptographic processing or some other triggering event. The one or more cryptographic processor may be used to accelerate cryptographic processing in the device and may include a random number generator RSA key generator SHA 1 hash generator and an encryption decryption signature engine. In various embodiments the key reader may obtain from the memory of the physical key user credentials for service provider. The user credentials maybe store temporarily in memory subsystem for use in authentication with the service provider and encryption of the data. An example of this process will be discussed below with reference to .

The Inline Data Encryptor receives the information and the operation to be performed from the user device. The Inline Data Encryptor may check for a physical key before accepting information over a connection. In some embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor can receive information and an operation to be performed over the connection before detecting a physical key . The Inline Data Encryptor may then determine the presence of a physical key and once detected prepare to processes the information. The Inline Data Encryptor may then obtain secret information from the physical key in order to process the information. The Inline Data Encryptor may obtain the information through a key reader as described above. The physical key and the information it contains can also be built into the Inline Data Encryptor . The physical key can also contain service provider specific secret information along with user or organization specific secret information. The Inline Data Encryptor can obtain from the physical key credential information and keying material for use when encrypting plain text data received from the user device . In various embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor may first encrypt the plain text to create cipher text with service provider secret information. The service provider secret information may be obtained from a variety of locations the physical key the user through a user interface the Inline Data Encryptor itself or directly from the service provider over a network connection. Once encrypted with the service provider secret information the Inline Data Encryptor can further encrypt the cipher text with secret information obtained from the physical key unknown to the service provider. This extra layer of encryption may prevent the service provider from having access to the contents information encrypted.

After the Inline Data Encryptor has encrypted the plain text and create cipher text using keying information it may safely be transmitted over a network such as the Internet. The cipher text is received by the service provider and stored in secure storage . The service provided may also receive a request from the user for encrypted data stored in secure storage . In various embodiments the user through the user interface on the user device may request encrypted information stored by the service provider. The request can be sent directly to the service provider over a network or can be routed through the Inline Data Encryptor to facilitate decrypting by the Inline Data Encryptor. The Inline Data Encryptor may upon receiving the request attempt to detect both the connection and the physical key . The service provider may respond to the request which may include user credentials for authorization by the service provider by sending cipher text over the network to the Inline Data Encryptor .

The Inline Data Encryptor may then receive the cipher text over a network connection. As described above the Inline Data Encryptor may obtain credential and keying information from the physical key . This information may then be used to decrypt the cipher text and create plain text to be transmitted to the user through the user device . Depending on the type of encryption used in various embodiments the cipher text may be first decrypted using the secret information obtained from the physical key and then further decrypted using the user secret information associated with the user credential for the service provider. Decrypting the cipher text creates plain text which may then be transmitted to the user device over a connection.

In various embodiments encrypted data can be sent or retrieved from various geographic locations. Example embodiments will be described in relation to which is an illustrative example of an environment in which various embodiments can be practiced. In environment the user can securely transmit sensitive or confidential information from one location to another through the use of the Inline Data Encryptor and the physical key. In various embodiments facility and facility may be different work sites operated by the organization or may be two sites operated by different organizations. The facilities may be mobile sites connected to the network over a wireless connection or may be traditional installations connected to the network over a direct wired connection. Furthermore the facilities may include a data center with server array as depicted in to be described in detail below. User located at facility selects information using the user device the Inline Data Encryptor receives the information encrypts the information as described above and transmits the encrypted information to the desired location. For example in various embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor my transmit the encrypted data to remote storage provided by the service provider or directly to another Inline Data Encryptor located at facility . User or User may operate the user device at facility in order to select information to be retrieved and decrypted through the Inline Data Encryptor at Facility .

In various embodiments user at facility establishes a connection with Inline Data Encryptor the connection may be a physical connection or networked connection as described above. The user may then select information to be secured and an operation to be performed such as uploading the information to secure storage of the service provider. The information and selected operation are transmitted to the Inline Data Encryptor the Inline Data Encryptor checks for the presences a connection with the user device and a physical key as described above. The Inline Data Encryptor may be located in the data center of facility and operate as a proxy between facility and the information s destination. Once both the physical key and the connection are detected the Inline Data Encryptor may encrypt the information received from the user device. The encryption may be done using keying material obtained from the physical key as described above. The encrypted information may then be sent directly to facility or to the service provider for remote storage depending on the operation selected by the user. In various embodiments where the information is sent directly to the Inline Data Encryptor at facility the Inline Data Encryptor may have built in storage to facilitate retrieval of the information at facility .

In various embodiments at facility a second user user may select information from the secure storage of the service provider to be downloaded and decrypted by the Inline Data Encryptor . This information may be the same as the information encrypted by user above or may be other information. In various embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor may receive the selection from user detect both a connection and a physical key and transmit the selection to the service provider to process the request. The request maybe signed using credential information retrieved from the physical key as described above or the Inline Data Encryptor may request credential information from user directly. When the Inline Data Encryptor receives from the service provider the information selected by the user it may again check for a connection and a physical key before decrypting the information and transmitting it to the user device.

The physical key could be the same key used to encrypt the information at facility may be a copy of the physical key used at facility or may be a partial copy of the physical key used at facility . In various embodiments the physical key could have a copy of the keying material used at facility but different credential e.g. credentials for user as opposed to user . In various embodiments different credentials may correspond to different access level or permissions. The credentials may be generated by the organization as described in or may be provided by the service provider. The credentials may determine read write access as well as administrator privileges. The physical key may be transported from facility to facility and may be inserted directly in to the Inline Data Encryptor or be within a specific proximity to the Inline Data Encryptor . The physical key may also contain multiple credential sets which may be selectively obtained by the Inline Data Encryptor.

In various embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor may be transported along with the physical key or separate from the physical key from facility to facility . The Inline Data Encryptor may also be located inside the network and operated as a proxy the user may connect directly to the Inline Data Encryptor or the process may be automated on the user device. The Inline Data Encryptor at facility may detect a connection to user device and a physical key. User device may be the same as user device at facility or it may be a different device. As described above the physical key may be the same as the key used at facility or a different key. The Inline Data Encryptor may obtain information based on user selection for download from the service provider. Once obtained the Inline Data Encryptor may then submit a signed download request to the service provider . The service provider may then authenticate the request and transmit the selected information to the Inline Data Encryptor . The Inline Data Encryptor may receive the information and decrypt the information using one or more keys depending of the encryption method used as described above. The decrypted information may then be transmitted in plain text from the Inline Data Encryptor to the user device at facility .

All or part of the process described above in relation to may be automated so as not to require user input. For example referring to the customer may desire all information generate at facility to be automatically store with the service provider . The process may establish a connection and automatically select all data stored on the user device and indicate the select data is to be saved remotely by the service provide at which point it may be transfer to the Inline Data Encryptor for encryption as described above. The data in the above example may be continuously stream from the user device to the Inline Data Ecryptor scheduled to occur at regular intervals occur upon a triggering event or similar process.

Numerous variations of the process may be performed. For example the user may physically connect the Inline Data Encryptor to the user device through a SATA or similar connection to initiate the encryption or decryption process. The process may be partially or completely automated depending on the application. For example the process may be used in connection with an automated device such as a security camera or drone. The process may also be set to be performed periodically to facilitate the back up or update if secret information. The user may also select information and indicate an operation before establishing a connection to the Inline Data Encryptor. The process may also prepackage data from transfer to the Inline Data Encryptor before a connection is established.

Returning to once the Inline Data Encryptor has detected both a physical key and a connection to the data source the Inline Data Encryptor receives credentials for the service provider. The credentials may be obtained from the physical key as described above. In various embodiments the credentials may be received from the user device. For example referring to the web browser running on the user device may prompt the user for login credentials which are then received by the Inline Data Encryptor. Once the credentials are received the Inline Data Encryptor may then encrypt the data with one or more keys. The data to be encrypted may be the data transferred referring to from the user device as described above. The Inline Data Encryptor may then submit a request to the service provider to store the encrypted data. In various embodiments the request is signed with the user private key provided in the user credentials or another private key shared between the user and the provider and transmitted to the service provider for authentication and storage. In various embodiments a request may be submitted before or contemporaneously with the encryption process. For example referring to the Inline Data Encryptor may submit a request to store data with the service provider and once authenticate stream encrypted data to the service provider using a stream cipher operation.

In various embodiments once a signed request is submitted the Inline Data Encryptor determines whether the encrypted data has been successfully uploaded . If the data has not been successfully uploaded the corresponding error code is displayed to the user. For example if the service provider fails to authenticate the signature submitted with the request Inline Data Encryptor may prompt the user to re enter credentials for use with the service provider. In various embodiments when an error occurs the user may be asked to provide additional input. For example when the network connection between the Inline Data Encryptor and the service provider times out or is interrupted the user maybe asked if the Inline Data Encryptor is to attempt to resubmit the encrypted data.

If the Inline Data Encryptor determines the encrypted data has been uploaded successfully the user is notified of successful transmission. For example with reference to if the Inline Data Encryptor successfully uploads the encrypted data to the remote service provider secure storage a notification may be sent to the user device. The notification may be any suitable means of notifying the user such as a dialog box status bar an audible tone or combination.

Numerous variations of the process may be performed. The process may commence upon receipt of data from the user device. The key reader may be connected to the power supply of the device in such a way that the device is unpowered until the physical key is inserted it the Inline Data Encryptor and process commences. The Inline Data Encryptor may determine if the user credentials are authorized before encrypting the data. This may avoid unnecessary computations and energy consumption. The process may be modified so that while the physical key is present all data transferred is encrypted and streamed to the service provider.

In various embodiments the Inline Data Encryptor determines if the service provider has authenticated the signed request e.g. by providing a response to the request that initiates the requested download. If the service provider does not authenticate the request an error message may be displayed to the user through the user device as described above. If the Inline Data Encryptor determines the service provider has authenticated the request the process continues and the Inline Data Encryptor receives the encrypted data. The Inline Data Encryptor may receive the data over a network such as the network in . In various embodiments the data may already be located on a file storage system on the Inline Data Encryptor. Once Inline Data Encryptor has received the data it may be decrypted using one or more keys. The Inline Data Encryptor may wait until all the data requested is received before decrypting the data or may decrypt the data as it is received. Decrypted data may be transmitted by the Inline Data Encryptor to the user device in plain text as requested by the user. Transmission by the Inline Data Encryptor may occur as the information is being decrypted or the Inline Data Encryptor may wait until all the received information has been decrypted.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. Servers as used herein may be implemented in various ways such as hardware devices or virtual computer systems. In some contexts servers may refer to a programming module being executed on a computer system. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling some even a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server may provide access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the web server in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the web server. It should be understood that the web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein. Further operations described herein as being performed by a single device may unless otherwise clear from context be performed collectively by multiple devices which may form a distributed system.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect of the present disclosure. For example the data store illustrated may include mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user through a device operated by the user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the Identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser. It should be noted however that embodiments of the present disclosure are not necessarily limited to the context of web pages but may be more generally applicable to processing requests in general where the requests are not necessarily requests for content.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop laptop or tablet computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP protocols operating in various layers of the Open System Interconnection OSI model File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a web server the web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU or processor at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected when unmodified and referring to physical connections is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The use of the term set e.g. a set of items or subset unless otherwise noted or contradicted by context is to be construed as a nonempty collection comprising one or more members. Further unless otherwise noted or contradicted by context the term subset of a corresponding set does not necessarily denote a proper subset of the corresponding set but the subset and the corresponding set may be equal. Conjunctive language such as phrases of the form at least one of A B and C or at least one of A B and C unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise clearly contradicted by context is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either A or B or C or any nonempty subset of the set of A and B and C. For instance in the illustrative example of a set having three members used in the above conjunctive phrase at least one of A B and C and at least one of A B and C refers to any of the following sets A B C A B A C B C A B C. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of A at least one of B and at least one of C to each be present.

Operations of processes described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. Processes described herein or variations and or combinations thereof may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for embodiments of the present disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the scope of the present disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

