---

title: Nanocomposite thin films for optical gas sensing
abstract: The disclosure relates to a plasmon resonance-based method for gas sensing in a gas stream utilizing a gas sensing material. In an embodiment the gas stream has a temperature greater than about 500° C. The gas sensing material is comprised of gold nanoparticles having an average nanoparticle diameter of less than about 100 nanometers dispersed in an inert matrix having a bandgap greater than or equal to 5 eV, and an oxygen ion conductivity less than approximately 10S/cm at a temperature of 700° C. Exemplary inert matrix materials include SiO, AlO, and SiNas well as modifications to modify the effective refractive indices through combinations and/or doping of such materials. Changes in the chemical composition of the gas stream are detected by changes in the plasmon resonance peak. The method disclosed offers significant advantage over active and reducible matrix materials typically utilized, such as yttria-stabilized zirconia (YSZ) or TiO.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08741657&OS=08741657&RS=08741657
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08741657
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130225
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

This patent application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. Pat. No. 8 411 275 filed Apr. 10 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

One or more embodiments relates to a method for sensing changes to the chemical composition in a gas at temperatures greater than approximately 500 C. utilizing changes to the plasmon resonance peak generated by a gas sensing material. The gas sensing material is comprised of a nanocomposite film comprised of a plurality of gold nanoparticles dispersed within below or above an optically transparent wide bandgap matrix considered to be inert under the conditions in which the gas sensing is performed. In some cases this matrix is specifically selected such that the nanocomposite film exhibits an effective refractive index that is less than that of the core material of an optical waveguide to enable effective waveguiding when employed as a gas sensitive cladding layer for evanescent wave absorption spectroscopy based sensing.

The enhancement of EM fields in the vicinity of metallic nanoparticles and metallic nanostructures can be explained by the phenomenon of localized surface plasmon resonance. The shape and magnitude of associated features measured in the transmission or reflection spectra from these metallic structures depend on the enhanced scattering and absorption of light at specific wavelengths. The details of the extinction cross section enhancement over a finite wavelength range is affected by several different factors that include the characteristic optical constants and geometry of the nanostructures illuminated by incident light as well as the optical constant of the surrounding matrix phase.

The origin of plasmon resonances are collective oscillations of the conduction band electrons and they result from the presence of interfaces for nanoparticles and films of a select group of materials which include the noble metals Ag Cu and Au. Localized surface plasmons are excited when light is incident on metallic nanoparticles which typically have dimensions smaller than the wavelength of the incident light. At certain characteristic wavelengths one or more resonant modes are excited in the nanoparticles leading to a significant enhancement in absorbed and scattered light and a strong increase in the electromagnetic fields in the vicinity of the particles. Localized surface plasmons can be detected as resonance peaks in the absorption and scattering spectra of the metallic nanoparticles. Nanostructures made up of noble metals such as gold silver and copper are well known to exhibit localized surface plasmon resonance LSPR phenomena.

The collective oscillation of the free electrons is also sensitive to changes in the size of the particle. For example gold nanoparticles embedded in a transparent matrix phase with a real dielectric constant similar to that of SiO 2.25 and average diameters in the range of approximately 5 10 nm strongly absorb at visible wavelengths with a maximum absorbance near 520 nm. In this particular case the energy required to excite the surface plasmon lies in the visible region of the spectrum. With increases in the Au particle size a shift in the peak of the optical absorption to longer wavelengths is observed due to the excitation of higher order resonant modes. The relative magnitude of the scattering cross section also increases as compared to the absorption cross section resulting in particles that strongly scatter light rather than absorb it for particle sizes approaching 100 nm. In addition to being site dependent the plasmon resonance band is sensitive to changes in the dielectric properties of the surrounding medium. For transparent matrix media with large dielectric constants the energy required to collectively excite the electrons is decreased thereby shifting the peak in the extinction cross section to lower energies and longer wavelengths.

The strong dependence of the optical extinction peak on a number of material dependent parameters provides the nanoparticles with an inherent sensing ability. For visible light generally only changes in refractive index occurring at distance within about 200 nm of the particle surface result in changes to the optical properties of the nanoparticles. The plasmon resonance behavior of nanoparticles are particularly sensitive to adsorption directly on the particle surface and hence biological sensing based on analyte absorption by nanoparticles and subsequent modifications of the absorbance maximum is currently an area of significant effort.

The changes in the absorbance maxima generated by the localized surface plasmon resonance effect have also been utilized extensively for gas sensing applications in the low and intermediate temperature ranges. A select few researchers in the field have also applied Au incorporated films to optical gas sensing at higher temperatures. However current technical literature suggests that the fundamental response of technically useful Au metal oxide composite films requires the selection of a matrix phase that plays an active role in the gas sensing process. Two potential ways that such an active role can be played include 1 a change in the free carrier density of the matrix phase followed by an electronic charge transfer from the matrix to the nanoparticle and 2 a change in the effective dielectric constant of the matrix phase. Both of these effects would result in a modification to the extinction peak of Au nanoparticles associated with the localized surface plasmon resonance effect that could be detected through optical based monitoring techniques. As a result nanoparticles are generally embedded in catalytically active reducible and oxygen conducting matrices such as TiOor yttria stabilized zirconium YSZ for high temperature T 500 C. optical gas sensing. Current technical literature suggests that technologically useful optical responses in this temperature range associated with plasmon absorption peak shifts require the presence of oxygen in the sensing environment and reduction of the matrix phase with associated changes in the oxygen vacancy concentration. For lower temperatures gold nanoparticles have been embedded in matrices of even more highly reducible oxides such as NiO WO or CuO. The sensing mechanism is again attributed to reduction of the matrix in the bulk or at the surface and modifications to the real and imaginary parts of the refractive indices of the oxide may play a more significant impact on altering the position and shape of the SPR band. See e.g. Sirinakis et al. Development and Characterization of Au YSZ Surface Plasmon Resonance Based Sensing Materials High Temperature Detection of CO 110 2006 and see Ando et al. Optical CO sensitivity of Au CuO composite film by use of the plasmon absorption change 96 2003 and see U.S. Pat. No. 7 864 322 B2 to Carpenter et al. These approaches have the disadvantage of requiring the concurrent presence of Oas a gaseous constituent in order to affect charge transfer and or limited stability of the oxide matrix.

Another class of dielectric matrix phases exists which exhibits improved temperature and chemical stability as compared to reducible oxides and which is characterized by a relatively wide bandgap and low oxygen and electronic conductivity commonly referred to in the literature as inert . Examples of such inert materials include SiO AlO and SiN. In this class of matrix materials direct interactions of the matrix with the ambient atmosphere are mitigated as compared to catalytically active reducible and oxygen conducting matrices such as TiOand YSZ. It would be advantageous to provide a plasmon based methodology for high temperature gas sensing based on a gas sensing material comprised of Au nanoparticles embedded in such an inert matrix where technologically useful responses are observed despite mitigation of interactions between the matrix material and the ambient gas atmosphere reported to be responsible for the measured sensing response in systems such as Au YSZ. Direct interactions with oxygen conducting matrices such as YSZ generate a change in effective dielectric constant and or a change in the concentration of oxygen vacancies with a measurable effect on the localized surface plasmon resonance LSPR extinction cross section. The former impacts the LSPR behavior directly while the latter affects it through changes in the density of electrons n type oxides or holes p type oxides in the matrix phase followed by charge transfer between the nanoparticle and the matrix. It would also be advantageous to provide a methodology that does not require the presence of Owithin the sensing environment.

Preferably such a methodology would generate useful responses due to a direct action between the nanoparticle and ambient chemical species particularly at temperature in excess of approximately 500 C. Currently plasmonic responses to such direct interactions have been limited to a gold nanoparticle silicon substrate material exposed to atomic H at room temperature. See Giangregorio et al. Insight into Gold Nanoparticle Hydrogen Interaction A Way To Tailor Nanoparticle Surface Charge and Self Assembled Monolayer Chemisorption J. Phys. Chem. C 115 2011 . Further investigations on the adsorption of diatomic Hon gold nanoparticles has been limited to temperatures of around 250 C. significantly below the 500 C. or greater temperatures desired for certain operations including but not limited to power generation technologies utilizing fossil fuels including coal gasification solid oxide fuel cells gas turbines and advanced combustion systems. See e.g. Bus et al. Hydrogen Chemisorption on AlO Supported Gold Catalysts 109 2005 . Other investigators have suggested that direct adsorption of Hon Au in the Au YSZ system could be responsible for observations in O free atmospheres at temperatures approaching 500 C. but technologically useful responses were not observed and it was indicated that measured responses could also be explained through donation of electrons to the matrix phase by atomic H followed by charge transfer between the matrix and Au nanoparticles leading to plasmon resonance shifts. See e.g. Joy et al. Plasmonic Based Kinetic Analysis of Hydrogen Reactions within Au YSZ Nanocomposites 115 2011 . It would be advantageous if a methodology were provided whereby nanoparticles dispersed on beneath or embedded within a matrix could be utilized for a plasmon based detection of gas species generated through a direct interaction between the nanoparticles and the ambient gas species and additionally advantageous if the methodology were effective in gas streams at temperatures in excess of approximately 500 C. such that they were relevant for a number of fossil fuel based energy production applications.

Disclosed here is a method for gas sensing utilizing shifts in a plasmon resonance peak position generated by a gas sensing material. In an embodiment the gas is at a temperature greater than about 500 C. The gas sensing material is comprised of a plurality of gold nanoparticles dispersed in a wide bandgap matrix with a sufficiently low oxygen ion conductivity at the temperatures and gas atmospheres of interest that it is classified as inert . The method disclosed offers significant advantage over materials typically utilized for plasmon based high temperature sensing such as yttria stabilized zirconia YSZ or TiO including enhanced thermal and chemical stability and increased stability of nanoparticle diameter among other advantages. In addition several candidates for inert matrix materials e.g. SiO AlO MgFdoped SiO mixed SiO AlO exhibit relatively low values of refractive indices for fully densified films ranging from less than 1.5 to greater than 1.7. In contrast such low values of effective refractive index cannot be obtained in fully dense films of reducible or high oxygen conducting oxides such as TiOand YSZ. This property is advantageous as it enables integration of nanocomposite films directly with optical fiber based sensors as a gas sensitive cladding layer in an evanescent wave absorption spectroscopy based sensing configuration while maintaining the conditions necessary for waveguiding in the low refractive index core material. Typical core materials for such applications include SiO refractive index 1.5 for silica based optical fibers and AlO refractive index 1.7 for sapphire based optical fibers.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The disclosure provides a method for gas sensing by utilizing modifications to the plasmon resonance peak generated by a gas sensing material where the gas sensing material is comprised of a plurality of gold nanoparticles disperse in an inert matrix. The gas sensing material is in contact with a monitored stream comprised of gaseous constituents and periodically comprised of a chemical species of interest having a concentration which may vary over time. The gas sensing material exhibits changes to the plasmon resonance peak in response to changes to the chemical composition of the monitored stream such as changes to the H CO and Oconcentrations among others. In an embodiment the monitored stream has a temperature greater than about 500 C.

The gas sensing material is comprised of gold nanoparticles having an average nanoparticle diameter of less than about 100 nanometers. The gold nanoparticles are dispersed in an inert matrix having a bandgap greater than or equal to 5 electron volts eV and an oxygen ion conductivity of less than approximately 10S cm at temperature of 700 C. Exemplary inert matrix materials include SiO AlO and SiNas well as derivatives such as MgFdoped SiO and mixtures of SiO AlO. In certain embodiments matrix materials are specifically chosen to optimize the effectiveness refractive index of the gas sensing material for use as gas sensitive cladding layers in optical waveguide based sensors. Negligible changes in refractive index and a limited number of free carriers of the inert matrix are expected in response to any reducing species that may occur in a monitored stream such that modifications to the LSPR features of Au nanoparticles can be dominated by interactions between the Au particle and the ambient atmosphere. Rather than playing an active role in the gas sensing mechanism the primary role of the inert matrix is two fold 1 to mitigate the coarsening of gold nanoparticles under any high temperature conditions and 2 to tailor the effective refractive index of the nanocomposite thin film for optimized sensing response when integrated with an optical waveguide based sensing platform. In some cases the matrix phase may also be selected to improve selectivity by inhibiting chemical diffusion of species other than the species of interest thereby preventing them from reaching the surface of embedded Au nanoparticles.

The gas sensing material utilized in the method of this disclosure may be prepared using means known in the art for the production of gold nanoparticles dispersed within a supporting matrix including sol gel based wet chemistry techniques impregnation techniques implantation techniques sputtering techniques and others. The gas sensing material may be deposited as a single monolithic layer or through multi layered deposition involving a single technique or a combination of several film deposition techniques. The gas sensing material and the associated method disclosed offers significant advantages over materials typically utilized for plasmon based sensing such as yttria stabilized zirconia YSZ or TiO including enhanced thermal and chemical stability and increased stability of nanoparticle diameter among others.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a method for sensing changes to a chemical composition based on changes to the plasmon resonance peak generated by a gas sensing material comprised of gold nanoparticles dispersed in an inert matrix.

The disclosure provides a method for sensing changes to a chemical composition by utilizing the changes to the plasmon resonance peak generated by a particular gas sensing material. The gas sensing material is comprised of a plurality of gold nanoparticles dispersed in an inert matrix. The gold nanoparticles have an average nanoparticle diameter of less than about 100 nm and the inert matrix has a bandgap exceeding 5 eV and an oxygen ion conductivity of less than approximately 10S cm at a temperature of 700 C. The method disclosed offers significant advantages over alternative plasmon based gas sensing materials incorporating active matrix materials such as yttria stabilized zirconia YSZ or TiO including enhanced thermal and chemical stability and the ability to tame effective refractive indices in the range required to be compatible with optical waveguide based sensors and others.

The basic principles of the method are illustrated at . At light from light source is directed along an optical fiber and focused by lens producing incident light illuminating gas sensing material . Generally incident light is comprised of light having wavelengths in the visible spectrum. Concurrently exiting light is collected behind the specimen using a probe of spectrophotometer . Data generated by spectrophotometer or supporting equipment is processed and the extinction spectrum is displayed. See e.g. Sarid Dror and Challener William Cambridge University Press 2010 among many others. The extinction spectrum indicates the selective photon absorption or scattering of light at certain wavelengths by gas sensing material .

Gas sensing material is additionally in contact with a monitored stream G. Monitored stream G is comprised of a chemical composition of gaseous constituents. In an embodiment monitored stream G is at a temperature greater than 500 C. The gaseous constituents within monitored stream G are periodically comprised of a species of interest such as CO H and O the concentration of which may vary over time. Additionally and as will be discussed gas sensing material is comprised of gold nanoparticles dispersed in an inert matrix. It has been found that gas sensing material exhibits a plasmon resonance peak based on the chemical composition of monitored stream G and that a change in the plasmon resonance peak is indicative of change in the chemical composition. As an example illustrates a plasmon resonance peak displaying a plasmon resonance peak position of generally around 525 nm generated when monitored stream G contacting the gas sensing material is comprised of air with a substantial absence of H. In contrast when the chemical composition of monitored stream G is altered such that monitored stream G is comprised of about 4 H remainder N the absorption peak blue shifts to plasmon resonance peak with a plasmon resonance peak position occurring at a wavelength of generally around 510 nm. Correspondingly monitoring the plasmon resonance peak generated by the gas sensing material and detecting a change in the plasmon resonance peak provides a means by which the chemical composition of the monitored stream G may be monitored. With respect the change in the plasmon resonance peak is detected based on the peak shift between plasmon resonance peaks and . The peak shift may be monitored directly through broadband wavelength interrogation and appropriate fitting procedures or through indirect measurements by monitoring film transmittance reflectance or absorptance at one more selected wavelength s .

Within this disclosure plasmon resonance peak means the maximum value of absorption which occurs when a spectrum of incident light is compared to a spectrum of exiting light where the incident light is comprised of light illuminating the gas sensing material and where the exiting light is comprised of some portion of the incident light transmitted or reflected by the gas sensing material. A plasmon resonance peak position means the wavelength at which the plasmon resonance peak occurs. As is understood absorption spectroscopy based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light indicates the light absorption as a function of wavelength that occurs as a result of interaction between the incident light and the gas sensing material and may serve to identify the plasmon resonance peak of this disclosure. See e.g. Ingle James D. and Stanley R. Crouch Englewood Cliffs N.J. Prentice Hall 1988 among others. Similarly a peak shift means a wavelength shift between a first and second plasmon resonance peak position. For example peak shift at . The plasmon resonance peak breadth is defined as the full width at half maximum of a fit consisting of a Gaussian Lorentzian or some other functional form to a portion of the LSPR absorption peak at wavelengths greater than the plasmon resonance peak position. A peak broadening or peak narrowing consists of an increase or decrease in the plasmon resonance peak breadth.

Within this disclosure a change in the plasmon resonance peak may mean a peak shift where the peak shift is determined directly in a manner similar to that indicated at where plasmon resonance peaks are determined and compared to detect a change in the chemical composition of monitored stream G. Alternatively the change in the plasmon resonance peak may also be recognized by detecting a change in absorption characteristics at any monitored wavelength or by detecting changes in absorption characteristics at multiple wavelengths over a band of wavelengths. Alternatively change in the plasmon resonance peak may also mean a change in the plasmon resonance peak breadth a change in the amplitude of the plasmon resonance peak a change in full width at half maximum FWHM or any other techniques utilized to indicate that the absorption characteristics at an individual wavelength or at multiple wavelengths have altered from a monitored plasmon resonance peak.

As a further example where the change in the plasmon resonance peak is detected based on a change in absorption characteristics at a monitored wavelength illustrates the response of the gas sensing material in contact with a monitored stream where the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is an introduction of H and where the gas sensing material is deposited on the core of a fiber optic waveguide and illuminated by light propagating through the waveguide as will be discussed. illustrates a change in relative transmission at a wavelength of 650 nm where the monitored gas stream is at a temperature of about 850 C. Relative transmission is a transmission proportional to a transmission experienced at a relative transmission of 1.0 so that a relative transmission of 1.1 indicates a 10 increase in transmission over the relative transmission of 1.1 and so on. At between about times 0 t t t t t t t t t t t and greater than about t the monitored stream has a background chemical composition of 1 Oby volume remainder N. Between t about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 0.2 H and an increase in the relative transmission of the gas sensing material at the wavelength of 650 nm occurs as illustrated. Similarly between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 0.4 H between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 1.0 H between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 2.0 H between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 3.0 H and between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 4.0 H. As indicated the relative transmission of the gas sensing material increases at the wavelength of 650 nm for each instance where the chemical composition of the monitored stream is altered through the introduction of H.

Similarly illustrates the response of the gas sensing material when the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is an introduction of O. illustrates the change in relative transmission at a wavelength of 650 nm and a temperature of about 850 C. and where the gas sensing material is illuminated by an evanescent wave created in a waveguide. At between about times 0 t t t t t t t t t and t t the monitored stream has a background chemical composition of N. Between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 1 Oby volume and a decrease in the relative transmission of the gas sensing material at the wavelength of 650 nm occurs as illustrated. Similarly between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 3 O between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 5 O between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 10 O between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 20 O and greater than about time t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 20 O. As indicated the relative transmission of the gas sensing material decreases at the wavelength of 650 nm for each instance where the chemical composition of the monitored stream is altered through the introduction of O.

In similar fashion illustrates the response of the gas sensing material when the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is an introduction CO. illustrates the change in relative transmission at a wavelength of 650 nm and a temperature of about 850 C. and where again the gas sensing material is illuminated by an evanescent wave created in a waveguide. At between about times 0 t t t t t t t t t t t and greater than about t the monitored stream has a background chemical composition of 1 Oby volume remainder N. Between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 0.5 CO and an increase in the relative transmission of the gas sensing material at the wavelength of 650 nm occurs as illustrated. Similarly between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 1 CO between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 2.5 CO between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 5 CO between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 7.5 CO and between about times t t the background chemical composition is altered to include about 10 O. As indicated the relative transmission of the gas sensing material increases at the wavelength of 650 nm for each instance where the chemical composition of the monitored stream is altered through the introduction of CO.

In an embodiment the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is an increased concentration of a reducing gas and the increased concentration of the reducing gas is recognized by detecting a peak shift of the plasmon resonance peak position to a shorter wavelength. Here reducing gas means a gaseous constitutent considered to be more highly reductive as compared to the inert constituent such as N He or Ar. More specifically H CO ammonia NH and hydrocarbons e.g. fuel gases such as methane ethane are identified as reducing gases. In another embodiment the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is an increased concentration of an oxidizing gas and the increased concentration of the oxidizing gas recognized by detecting a peak shift of the plasmon resonance peak position to a longer wavelength. Here oxidizing gas means gaseous constitutent considered to be more highly oxidative as compared to an inert constituent such as N He or Ar. More specifically O O NOx SOx halogens e.g. F Cl Br and I halogen compounds sulfuric acids HSO HSO and HSO nitric acid and nitrate compounds are identified as oxidizing gases. The terms reductive and oxidative within this context refer to a tendency for a chemical species chemisorbed on a Au surface to donate or extract electrons from the underlying Au metal. According to these specifications chemical constituents such as Hand CO are excellent examples of reducing gases while Ois an excellent example of an oxidizing gas.

Gas sensing material is comprised of a plurality of gold nanoparticles dispersed in an inert matrix where the gold nanoparticles are individually comprised of elemental gold. Preferably an individual gold nanoparticle is comprised of at least 50 weight percent wt elemental gold and more preferably at least 90 wt elemental gold. Additionally the plurality of gold nanoparticles has an average nanoparticle diameter of less than about 100 nanometers. The average nanoparticle diameter may be determined using various methods known in the art for the sizing of nanoparticles for example scanning electron microscopy SEM atomic force microscopy AFM and transmission electron microscopy TEM methods. Preferably the average particle size is determined through image analysis by capturing a sample of typically at least 100 nanoparticles more preferably at least 300 nanoparticles. However the method by which an average nanoparticle diameter is determined is not limiting within this method. Within this method it is only necessary that gold nanoparticles are individually comprised of elemental gold and that the plurality of gold nanoparticles has an average nanoparticle diameter of less than about 100 nanometers. In an embodiment the average nanoparticle diameter is less than about 50 nanometers. In a further embodiment the average nanoparticle diameter is less than about 10 nanometers.

It is understood that the nanoparticles of this disclosure are not limited to strictly spherical shapes and that the plurality of gold nanoparticles may be comprised of shapes such as triangular prisms disks shells wires rods and others. When such structures are present the average particle diameter refers and is equivalent to an equivalent circular diameter ECD which connotes the diameter of a circle with area equal to that of the projection of the particle on a plane. See e.g. Xu et al Comparison of sizing small particles using different technologies 132 2003 .

Within gas sensing material the gold nanoparticles are dispersed in the inert matrix. As used herein dispersed means that individual gold nanoparticles comprising the plurality of gold nanoparticles in gas sensing material are sufficiently separated such that gas sensing material displays an electrical conductance at least an order of magnitude less than the electrical conductance of bulk gold under an equivalent temperature condition such that the electrical conductance is less than 1 10of the electrical conductance of the bulk gold. Such a condition can be determined using various methods for the evaluation of proximity to a percolation limit in supported nanoparticle systems. See e.g. Trudeau et al. Competitive transport and percolation in disordered arrays of molecularly linked Au nanoparticles Vol. 117 2002 among others. Additionally in an embodiment an average spacing between individual gold nanoparticles is at least five times greater than the average nanoparticle diameter where average spacing indicates the average displacement between a gold nanoparticle and a nearest gold nanoparticle neighbor. For a given gold nanoparticle the nearest gold nanoparticle neighbor may be determined through a variety of statistical methods known in the art such as fixed radius analysis minimal spanning trees Voronoi polygons k nearest neighbor algorithms and other established nearest neighbor methodologies. See e.g. Dussert et al. Minimal spanning tree A new approach for studying order and disorder 34 5 1986 and see Aurenhammer Voronoi Diagrams A Survey of a Fundamental Geometric Data Structure 23 3 1991 and see Cover et al. Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification 13 1 1967 among others. The displacement between the given gold nanoparticle and the nearest gold nanoparticle neighbor may be determined using techniques such as scanning electron microscopy atomic force microscopy and transmission electron microscopy and the average spacing may be determined as the average value over some statistically significant population of gold nanoparticles for example at least 100 gold nanoparticles.

The gold nanoparticles may be dispersed relatively uniformly or non uniformly with respect to the inert matrix provided that the nanoparticles are dispersed within the meaning of the definition discussed above. For example illustrates gas sensing material in contact with monitored stream G where gas sensing material is comprised of a plurality of gold nanoparticles such as gold nanoparticle and an inert matrix and where gas sensing material is further in contact with a substrate . At the plurality of gold nanoparticles are concentrated in a region of inert matrix in spatial proximity to the bulk of monitored stream G such that the relative concentration of gold nanoparticles decreases or disappears within inert matrix as displacement occurs in a negative direction of the y axis illustrated. Similarly illustrates gas sensing material in contact with monitored stream G where gas sensing material is comprised of a plurality of gold nanoparticles such as gold nanoparticle and inert matrix and where gas sensing material is further in contact with a substrate . In contrast to at the plurality of gold nanoparticles are distributed relatively homogenously through inert matrix such that the relative concentration of gold nanoparticles is substantially similar within inert matrix as displacement occurs in a negative direction of the y axis illustrated. Additionally illustrates gas sensing material in contact with monitored stream G where gas sensing material is comprised of a plurality of gold nanoparticles such as gold nanoparticle and inert matrix and where gas sensing material is further in contact with a substrate and depicts the plurality of gold nanoparticles concentrated in a region of inert matrix such that the relative concentration of gold nanoparticles increases within inert matrix as displacement occurs in a negative direction of the y axis illustrated and decreases or disappears as displacement occurs in a positive direction of the y axis illustrated. However arrangements such as those in and are exemplary only and the relative concentrations of gold nanoparticles in varying regions of the inert matrix are not limiting within this disclosure. Within this disclosure it is only necessary that the gold nanoparticles are sufficiently separated such that the gas sensing material displays an electrical conductance at least an order of magnitude less than the electrical conductance of bulk gold under an equivalent temperature condition as discussed above.

The inert matrix supporting the plurality of gold nanoparticles is permeable at least to some degree to the incident light at wavelengths corresponding to the plasmon resonance peak positions. For example when plasmon resonance peak positions are expected to occur within a light wavelength range from about 500 nm to about 650 nm the inert matrix is permeable at least to some degree to the incident light at wavelengths from about 500 nm to about 650 nm. In an embodiment the inert matrix is permeable at least to some degree to light at wavelengths over the visible spectrum. Here visible spectrum connotes light having wavelengths from about 400 nm to about 750 nm. The optical properties of the inert matrix are such that the inert matrix has a refractive index greater than one.

Additionally the inert matrix has a bandgap greater than or equal to 5 eV and has an oxygen ion conductivity less than approximately 10S cm at a temperature of 700 C. where the oxygen ion conductivity is either known from compiled sources or determined using techniques known in the art such as the oxygen permeation method See e.g. Kagomiya et al. Oxygen permeation and microstructure of intergrowth perovskite Sr La Fe Co based mixed conductive ceramics 117 9 2009 and see Chen et al. Ionic conductivity of perovskite LaCoOmeasured by oxygen permeation technique 27 1997 among others. The inert matrix is generally based upon a stoichiometric dielectric material such as SiO SiN or AlO. In some cases the inert matrix may consist of more complex systems such as MgF doped SiO or mixed SiO AlOto tailor the effective refractive indices for optimized sensing response in optical waveguide based sensing applications. Such an inert matrix as defined within this disclosure has limited free carriers and can be expected to display negligible change in refractive index in response to reducing species that may occur in a monitored stream even at high temperature conditions of interest. Additionally the inert matrix acts to mitigate the coarsening of gold nanoparticles which would otherwise occur under the high temperature conditions of this disclosure. The temperatures conditions of this disclosure are well above the Tammann temperature for Gold about 395 C. where metal mobility becomes significant. Coarsening of the gold nanoparticles is significantly reduced when dispersed in the inert matrix of this disclosure as opposed to other common matrix materials such as TiO. See e.g. Veith et al. Thermal stability and catalytic activity of gold nanoparticles supported on silica 262 2009 .

Detecting changes to a chemical composition based on changes in the plasmon resonance peak generated by gold nanoparticles dispersed in an inert matrix as described above is a surprising capability. Typically in gas sensing operations utilizing gold nanoparticles for temperatures at about 500 C. or higher the gold nanoparticles are embedded in a matrix such as TiOor YSZ. At such elevated temperatures in these materials the bulk defect chemical equilibria are strongly affected by ambient gas conditions and the materials are oxygen conductors at the temperatures of interest. The sensing mechanism is therefore attributed to the presence of oxygen in the sensing environment and reduction of the matrix leading to interfacial charge transfer at the perimeter of the Au nanoparticles which alters the position and shape of the SPR band. For lower temperature applications at about 500 C. and below gold nanoparticles have been embedded in matrices of even more highly reducible oxides such as NiO WO or CuO. The sensing mechanism is again attributed to reduction of the matrix in the bulk or at the surface and modifications to the real and imaginary parts of the refractive indices of the oxide may have a relatively more significant impact on altering the position and shape of the SPR band. See e.g. Sirinakis et al. Development and Characterization of Au YSZ Surface Plasmon Resonance Based Sensing Materials High Temperature Detection of CO 110 2006 and see Ando et al. Optical CO sensitivity of Au CuO composite film by use of the plasmon absorption change 96 2003 and see U.S. Pat. No. 7 864 322 B2 to Carpenter et al. Similarly in another approach which utilizes gold nanoparticles for Hdetection atomic H may act as a donor to the matrix material leading to plasmon resonance shifts. See e.g. Joy et al. Plasmonic Based Kinetic Analysis of Hydrogen Reactions within Au YSZ Nanocomposites 115 2011 . The inert matrix as defined in this disclosure mitigates those modes of operation.

Additionally gas sensing using gold nanoparticles at elevated temperatures is a surprising capability. Hydrogen uptake by the gold nanoparticles is an example of a possible mechanism for plasmonic sensing with the inert matrix of this disclosure and activated hydrogen chemisorption occurs as an activated process at temperatures up to at least 250 C. See e.g. Bus et al. However hydrogen uptake measurements at this lower temperature do not directly extrapolate to the extended temperatures of this disclosure due to the unknown variance and impact of kinetic and thermodynamic factors on hydrogen adsorption as temperature increases. A useful optical response associated with direct hydrogen chemisorption on Au nanoparticle surfaces at temperatures as high as 900 C. would not be expected or predictable based on low temperature indications of hydrogen uptake.

The gas sensing material utilized in the method of this disclosure may be prepared using means known in the art for the production of gold nanoparticles dispersed in a supporting matrix including sol gel wet chemistry based techniques impregnation techniques implantation techniques sputtering techniques and others. See e.g. De Sol Gel Synthesis of Metal Nanoclusters Silica Composite Films 11 1998 and see Delannoy et al. Preparation of supported gold nanoparticles by a modified incipient wetness impregnation method 110 45 2006 and see Veith et al. Magnetron sputtering of gold nanoparticles onto WO3 and activated carbon 122 2007 and see Garcia Serrano et al. Synthesis and characterization of Au nanoparticles in Al2O3 matrix 28 2003 among many others. Generally rigorous calcination schedules will improve the temperature stability of the resulting material under the reducing conditions of this disclosure. A high calcination temperature and long calcination time may ensure that the resulting gas sensing material is properly aged so that any optical property changes occurring in the material during sensing operations at the higher temperatures of this disclosure can be attributed to changes in the chemical composition of the monitored stream. In an embodiment treatment temperature is ramped and held at a maximum calcination temperature of at least 800 C. In an additional embodiment treatment temperature is ramped from about 20 C. to about 950 C. over about 10 hours held at about 950 C. for about 2 hours and cooled from about 950 C. to about 20 C. over about 3 hours. However the specific manner in which the gas sensing material of this disclosure is prepared is not limiting within this disclosure provided that the gas sensing material is comprised of gold nanoparticles dispersed in an inert matrix as defined herein.

At the monitored stream G is some portion of a gas stream. In an embodiment the gas stream and the monitored stream are separated by a barrier layer such as a dense filter layer to act as a diffusion barrier or a sieve material having an average pore size that is tailored to improve selectivity. Such an arrangement may be helpful when the gas stream is comprised of a molecular constituent which may act to impact the plasmon resonance peak of the gas sensing material and which may need to be excluded from influencing the sensing operation. For example a sieve material may be utilized to exclude the molecular constituent from the monitored stream by selecting a sieve material having an average pore size less than the molecular diameter of the molecular constituent to be excluded. Exemplary sieves include aluminosilicate minerals clays porous glasses microporous charcoals zeolites active carbons or synthetic compounds which display a standardized average pore size such as pore size 3A pore size 4A etc. In a similar manner the dense filter layer can be selected such that the diffusion of a species to be excluded is relatively sluggish. For example exemplary filters might include films comprised of SnO SiO Palladium alloys and others materials known for the selective filtering of hydrogen in an operation where the gas sensing material is utilized to detect changes in an Hconcentration. An appropriately defined barrier layer can also protect the underlying gas sensing layer from the presence of particulates and undesirable corrosive species that may have a deleterious effect on long term stability of the sensing layer. In an embodiment a first surface of the barrier material is contacted with the high temperature gas stream and the monitored stream is withdrawn from a second surface of the barrier material.

In another embodiment the gas sensing material is illuminated by an evanescent wave created in a waveguide such as a fiber optic cable. This particular embodiment is illustrated at . The waveguide is comprised of a core material in contact with a cladding material where core material has a refractive index greater than cladding material . For example core material and cladding material may be comprised of silica and various additions such as germanium titanium phosphorous boron fluorine or other dopants in order to alter the respective refractive indices and meet the necessary criteria. At light source emits visible light into core material generating evanescent wave penetrating cladding material . As is understood the optical power and penetration depth of the evanescent wave into cladding can be described by Beer Lambert law. See e.g. Dickinson et al. Convergent Self Encoded Bead Sensor Arrays in the design of an Artificial Nose 71 1999 among others. As is similarly understood the optical power coupled into the evanescent field may be improved by various methods such as bending optimizing the relative refractive indices of the core and cladding use of hollow fibers and other methods. See e.g. Elosua et al. Volatile Organic Compound Optical Fiber Sensors A Review 6 2006 among others.

At gas sensing material having the properties disclosed is placed in contact with core material such that gas sensing material is illuminated by evanescent wave as illustrated. Gas sensing material is additionally in contact with monitored stream G comprised of gaseous constituents. In an embodiment monitored stream G has a temperature greater than about 500 C. Exiting light is collected by probe . Interaction of gas sensing material with monitored stream G and illumination by evanescent wave enables detecting a change in the chemical composition of monitored stream G by detecting a change in the plasmon resonance peak as earlier described.

Thus provided here is a method for detecting a change in the chemical composition of monitored stream which utilizes changes in the plasmon resonance peak generated by a gas sensing material. The gas sensing material is comprised of a plurality of gold nanoparticles dispersed in a wide bandgap matrix with a low oxygen ion conductivity. The method disclosed offers significant advantage over materials typically utilized for plasmon based sensing such as yttria stabilized zirconia YSZ or TiO including enhanced thermal and chemical stability relative insensitivity to reducing gases beyond H increased stability of nanoparticle diameter tunability of effective refractive indices for compatibility with optical waveguide based sensors among others.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

