---

title: Prestressing fixture to eliminate automotive P.S.I.R. door-chute vibration weld visibility
abstract: An automotive interior component including an airbag chute having at least one weld bar, and a pre-stressed instrument panel having a substrate layer for bonding to the weld bar. The pre-stressing provides tensile stress at weld bar bonding areas to reduce any deformation visible on an exposed surface of the instrument panel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09193141&OS=09193141&RS=09193141
owner: Intertec Systems, L.L.C.
number: 09193141
owner_city: Plymouth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130729
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 569 004 the 004 Application filed Aug. 7 2012 entitled PRESTRESSING FIXTURE TO ELIMINATE AUTOMOTIVE P.S.I.R. DOOR CHUTE VIBRATION WELD VISIBILITY now pending which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 946 432 the 432 Application filed Nov. 15 2010 entitled PRESTRESSING FIXTURE TO ELIMINATE AUTOMOTIVE P.S.I.R. DOOR CHUTE VIBRATION WELD VISIBILITY now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 236 217 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 952 503 the 503 Application filed Dec. 7 2007 entitled PRESTRESSING FIXTURE TO ELIMINATE AUTOMOTIVE P.S.I.R. DOOR CHUTE VIBRATION WELD VISIBILITY now abandoned which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 873 274 the 274 Application filed Dec. 7 2006 entitled PRESTRESSING FIXTURE TO ELIMINATE AUTOMOTIVE P.S.I.R. DOOR CHUTE VIBRATION WELD VISIBILITY . The 004 Application the 432 Application the 503 Application and the 274 Application are all hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The invention relates generally to automotive instrument panels an apparatus for and method of manufacture thereof and more particularly to an apparatus for and method of manufacturing automotive instrument panels and other automotive components which eliminates distortion in the area of vibration welded Passenger Side Inflatable Restraint PSIR chutes and other vibration welded components.

Automobiles are commonly equipped with airbags for reducing driver and passenger injuries in the case of an accident. Automobile airbags are generally located in areas where a driver or passenger would potentially contact an automobile interior in the event of an accident. Airbags can reduce injuries by providing a substantially non solid surface for the driver or passenger to contact as opposed to the generally solid surfaces of the automotive interior. Although the functionality of the airbag is greatly valued the visual appeal of the instrument panel and invisibility of the airbag system are also of value to automobile manufacturers and consumers alike.

In order to install an airbag the airbag is generally folded into a module that is installed into or behind an automotive interior component. The module housing a passenger side airbag is generally installed on the underside of an instrument panel within a PSIR chute protruding behind the instrument panel. The instrument panel will generally have a pre weakened area allowing an airbag to release therethrough. A PSIR chute will be bonded to the instrument panel and will generally include doors that line up with the pre weakened area of the instrument panel.

A known method for attaching a PSIR chute to an instrument panel includes vibration welding the PSIR chute to the instrument panel. Vibration welding joins components by rubbing them together creating heat through the friction melting the connection points and applying holding pressure until the components cool together thereby welding the components at the contact points. During the cooling process there is known to be shrinkage deformation of materials. Namely during the known vibration welding of an instrument panel and PSIR chute there is a visible deflection of the instrument panel at the connection points between the components caused by uneven shrinkage during the cooling process.

It would therefore be of benefit to provide an apparatus and method of manufacturing automotive instrument panels and other structures including air bags and other vibration welded components to include a flat or predetermined contoured appearance in the area of the vibration welds.

The present invention overcomes the drawbacks and deficiencies of known methods and apparatus for attaching a PSIR chute to an instrument panel by providing an automotive interior component including an airbag chute having one or more weld bars and a pre stressed instrument panel having a substrate layer for bonding to the weld bar. For the instrument panel tensile stress at weld bar bonding areas reduces any deformation visible on an exposed surface of the pre stressed instrument panel by matching the B surface stretch under the tensile stress of local bending to the expected shrink of the melted layer.

For the automotive interior component described above the weld bars of the airbag chute may be vibration welded to the B side of the plastic instrument panel. The interior component may further include a cover layer bonded to the substrate layer. The cover layer may be made of polyvinyl chloride or ThermoPlastic Olefin and in an exemplary embodiment may have a thickness of 0.4 1.0 mm. The interior component may further include a cover layer and an intermediate foam layer bonded to the substrate layer. The foam layer may be made of polypropylene and in an exemplary embodiment may have a thickness of 0.5 3.0 mm. The substrate layer may include thermoplastic polymers and in an exemplary embodiment may have a thickness of 2.0 4.0 mm.

The invention also provides an apparatus for pre stressing an automotive instrument panel for eliminating distortion in an area of vibration welded airbag chutes. The apparatus may include a weld fixture including a plurality of convex pre stressors disposable against an instrument panel for creating compression in an area of contact with an instrument panel and creating tension in a surface opposite the contact area upon application of vacuum to draw the instrument panel toward the weld fixture. The weld fixture may be disposable against a cover layer of the instrument panel and creates tension in a substrate layer of the instrument panel with the substrate layer being disposed adjacent an opposite face of the cover layer with or without an intermediate foam layer being disposed between the cover and substrate layers.

The invention yet further provides a method of manufacturing an automotive instrument panel for eliminating distortion in an area of vibration welded air bags. The method may include providing a weld fixture including a plurality of pre stressor protrusions and placing the pre stressor protrusions against an instrument panel. The method may also include generating a force to press the weld fixture against the instrument panel to create compression in an area of contact of the weld fixture with the instrument panel and tension in a surface opposite the contact area and vibration welding an air bag chute to the instrument panel such that a weld bar of the air bag chute is welded to the surface placed in tension.

For the method described above the instrument panel may also include a substrate layer a foam layer attached to the substrate layer and a cover layer attached to the foam layer. For the method described above placing the pre stressor protrusions includes placing the pre stressor protrusions against the cover layer of the instrument panel and vibration welding further includes vibration welding an air bag chute to the substrate layer.

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the invention may be set forth or become apparent from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the invention and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide explanation without limiting the scope of the invention as claimed.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views are views illustrative of a related art instrument panel construction are views illustrative of an instrument panel construction for eliminating distortion in the area of vibration welded PSIR chutes according to the present invention and are views illustrative of a pre stressed layered instrument panel according to the present invention.

Referring to in hard hidden constructions a PSIR Chute is often vibration welded to the underside of prior art instrument panel . As briefly discussed above the technique of vibration welding generally involves the physical movement PSIR Chute having weld bars relative to prior art instrument panel with weld bars being moved horizontally relative to instrument panel under pressure. This physical movement creates heat which melts contact area of prior art instrument panel and thus allows weld bars to be welded to prior art instrument panel upon cooling of areas when the relative movement is stopped.

Referring to upon cooling the thermal shrinkage in contact areas causes compression in areas and tension in the opposite visible areas of the prior art instrument panel. Further the thermal shrinkage in contact areas also causes bending in area of center score line .

Referring to and the present invention generally provides an instrument panel construction technique using a modified weld fixture illustrated as a lower weld fixture in including a plurality of spaced convex pre stressors . In the embodiment illustrated each pre stressor may be a smooth convex curved shape however protrusions of various configurations may be used to transfer the desired force to the instrument panel. Referring to each pre stressor may be disposed adjacent visible surface of instrument panel and is further disposed opposite weld bars . Referring to each pre stressor may include a predetermined height to bend instrument panel such that the tension induced stretch on the back surface matches the expected weld shrink to thus eliminate distortion in the area of weld bars . Where the technique is used on a pre stressed layered instrument panel as discussed below pre stressors may be disposed adjacent to a cover layer and tension may be on substrate layer refer to . Modified weld fixture may further include a plurality of holes A for creating compression in areas and tension in areas of instrument panel upon the application of a vacuum to draw instrument panel toward fixture . A vacuum seal not shown may be provided around instrument panel for creating a vacuum as discussed above. Although a vacuum force is described herein those skilled in the art would appreciate the application of similar forces to the modified weld fixture and instrument panel . Namely instead of using vacuum to draw instrument panel toward weld fixture weld fixture and another upper weld fixture for holding the air bag chute may be simply pressed against instrument panel and air bag chute to thus create the aforementioned compressed tensioned areas.

The manufacturing method of instrument panel according to the present invention will now be described in detail with reference to . As shown in and briefly discussed above instrument panel may be disposed relative to modified weld fixture with visible surface of instrument panel or the surface of substrate layer adjacent foam layer of pre stressed layered instrument panel as shown in see discussion below being disposed in contact with pre stressors of weld fixture . The instrument panels may be laterally aligned relative to weld fixture such that each pre stressor is disposed opposite the weld bars . A vacuum may then be created to draw instrument panel or of towards weld fixture via the holes A in weld fixture . In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the vacuum may be generated at 13 psi with the instrument panel being maintained at room temperature. Further in an exemplary embodiment weld fixture and the weld fixture for air bag chute may be machined aluminum and include a thin i.e. mm urethane layer to prevent scratching or damage to the grain of instrument panel or of .

Referring to after vacuum application instrument panel or of may include compression in areas and tension in areas to thus create an uneven instrument panel visible surface prior to vibration welding of air hag chute .

Referring next to with weld fixture held in place relative to instrument panel or of air bag chute including weld bars and another upper weld fixture for holding the air bag chute may be vibration welded to instrument panel . Upon cooling of weld areas the initial stretch due to tension in areas see is matched by the thermal shrinkage created by cooling of weld areas to thus create a horizontal or otherwise predetermined contoured instrument panel visible surface without distortion.

Referring now to as briefly discussed above in an alternative embodiment of the instrument panel PSIR Chute having weld bars may be vibration welded to pre stressed layered instrument panel at contact areas . As shown in pre stressed layered instrument panel may include cover layer which may be about 0.4 1.0 mm of polyvinyl chloride ThermoPlastic Olefin a blend of polypropylene polyethylene and or rubber or like thermoplastic polymers. Panel may further include a foam layer including polypropylene foam or like material of about 0.5 3.0 mm thickness and a substrate layer of of 2.0 4.0 mm thick ThermoPlastic Olefin or like material. Substrate layer may be formed by an injection molding process. Cover layer and foam layer may be vacuum wrapped over the substrate layer . Weld bars may be vibration molded at contact areas to substrate layer .

Whereas visible distortion in areas and center area appear in the related art see distortions are not visible through the pre stressed layered instrument panel as the pros stressed combination of substrate layer foam layer and cover layer act to absorb any distortion caused by vibration welding. Whereas the embodiment of pre stressed layered instrument panel has been described as being formed by placement of convex pre stressors adjacent the surface of substrate layer adjacent foam layer it is conceivable that pre stressors may be placed on the exposed surface of cover layer .

Those skilled in the art would readily appreciate in view of this disclosure that various modifications may be made to the instrument panel construction technique described above without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example while instrument panel construction technique has generally been discussed in conjunction with vibration welded assembly of air bags this technique may be readily used with other vibration welded components for eliminating distortion in the area of the vibration weld. Further while the use of pre stressors has been discussed for eliminating distortion in an instrument panel pre stressors may be also used as needed to create a predetermined contoured appearance in the area of an instrument panel or other structures for providing a desirable contoured aesthetic appearance.

Although particular embodiments of the invention have been described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those particular embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

