---

title: Techniques for image browsing
abstract: A set of images may be obtained by a computing system of a user device. A display may be provided on the user device including a first image of the set of images. An indication may be received that indicates a tilt action of the user device. Based at least in part on the tilt action being within a particular tilt threshold, a partial view of the first image and a partial view of the second image may be provided to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09299103&OS=09299103&RS=09299103
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09299103
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131216
---
Users of portable electronic devices e.g. cell phones tablet PCs may use various applications to browse electronic marketplace inventory. An item offered in the electronic marketplace often will have images associated with the item. For instance an item may be available in multiple colors and or styles. Other users of the marketplace e.g. other consumers who have purchased the same item may post digital images of the item taken from a smart phone for example. Furthermore online manufacturers third party providers and or a service provider of the electronic marketplace may also include additional images of the item e.g. a front view of the item a side view of the item . It is often the case that the user is required to select a navigational interface e.g. a next button or use a swiping gesture that includes dragging a finger along the device screen in order to navigate between images. Both techniques may prove cumbersome. Techniques that provide navigation less awkwardly while providing greater entertainment value are desirable as they may increase the user s overall browsing experience.

In the following description various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Some or all of the process described may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with specific computer executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program including a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

Techniques described herein are directed to systems and methods to enable a user of an electronic device to utilize a tilt display feature and or service to navigate from one image to another within a set of images. In accordance with at least one embodiment a user may utilize a tilt display feature and or service to obtain the set of images. For instance the set of images may include 10 images of an item offered in an electronic marketplace or otherwise each image depicting the item in 1 of 10 colors available for purchase. The set of images may be downloaded by the tilt display service and stored locally or remotely. Alternatively the tilt display feature and or service hereinafter referred interchangeably as feature or service may obtain access to the set of images without downloading the set of images. In some examples the tilt display service may communicate motion input from the device to the electronic marketplace service provider. For instance the tilt display service may receive input gathered by at least one gyroscope accelerometer altimeter camera or other suitable hardware capable of ascertaining movement or orientation of the electronic device. The received input may indicate that the device has been moved from a substantially flat position to being tilted to the right at an angle of five degrees. The tilt display service may use the received input to determine navigational actions to take with regard to the set of images. In this example the received input indicating a tilt position of five degrees may cause the tilt display service to display 75 of the first image simultaneously alongside 25 of the second image. In some examples the ratio between the displayed portions of the first and second images may be proportionally updated based on the degree of the tilt position. In some examples the tilt display service may be executed or otherwise hosted from a service provider computer accessible over a network. In this way a user device may provide information about actions of a user utilizing the user device to the service provider and the tilt display service may respond with instructions and or appropriate data. However in other examples the tilt display service may be executed locally on the user device.

In one non limiting example a user could first view one image of the set of images. The user may decide that he wants to peek at the next image in the set. To accomplish such a task the user may tilt the device. If the angle of tilt is less than a predetermined tilt threshold angle then the tilt display service may cause a portion of the first image and a portion of the second image to be simultaneously provided to the user. In this manner a user may peek at the second image without actually navigating to the second image.

As used herein transition is directed to the action of changing a display from one image to another. It includes replacing one image with another as well as transitional animations. As used herein transitional animations may include a lenticular animation a wipe animation a cross fade animation a fade in animation a fade out animation or any suitable animation known in the art to change a display of one image to a display of another image. A suitable animation is one that is capable of being used to change the display of one image to the display of another image and would be apparent to one skilled in the art. Additionally transitional animation may comprise multiple animations executed sequentially or simultaneously. As used herein tilting refers to the action of positioning a user device in such a manner that the user device is tilted with respect to an initial position a general resting position and or the ground or horizontal surface . A tilted user device has at least one side positioned higher or lower than another side of the user device. As used herein a sensor may include a gyroscope an accelerometer altimeter camera other suitable hardware capable of ascertaining movement or orientation of a user device or any combination of the above.

Continuing with the previous example as the user tilts the device further he may eventually surpass the tilt threshold angle. As a result the current display might transition to a display of the second image. For instance if the user was originally viewing the first image and tilted the device over the tilt threshold angle then the first image display may transition directly to the second image display. In another example the user may currently be peeking such that a portion of both the first and second images are viewable to the user. In this case once the user tilts the device past the tilt threshold angle the portion of both the first and second images may be transitioned to and eventually replaced with the second image in its entirety.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the user may begin viewing the first image. The user may then begin to tilt the electronic device. Input from sensors on the electronic device may be received by the tilt display service and processed in rapid succession. In this manner the portion of the first and second images viewable to the user may be updated substantially at the same time and at the same rate as the tilt is increased. The greater the tilt the more of the second image is viewable until the tilt threshold angle is reached. Once the tilt threshold angle is reached the display may transition to the second image in its entirety. Once a transition is complete the once second image may become the current image and may be treated as a new first image for purposes of subsequent tilting.

In at least one example a user may tilt the device surpassing the tilt threshold angle. The user may further choose to maintain this tilt angle after a first flip has occurred. The maintained tilt angle may cause the tilt display service to transition directly from the current image to the next image. In at least one example where the tilt angle is maintained each subsequent flip may occur faster with respect to the previous flip with each subsequent flip occurring quicker as a function of time since the tilt was initiated. In this manner a user may increase the speed at which he navigates through a set of images by tilting and holding the tilt in the direction of desired navigation.

In another non limiting example a user may initiate a rotational view mode of an item offered by the electronic marketplace. For instance the item may be associated with a set of images that make a rotational display possible. The rotational display may depict what the item may look like from multiple angles. In such an example the user may tilt the device in the direction he wishes to rotate the image display. Consequently the tilt display service may cause the set of images to be displayed sequentially at a speed proportional to the tilt angle of the electronic device. As a result the images may cause the item to appear to rotate on a fixed axis. In some examples if the user tilts the device slightly the images may be displayed such that an item appears to rotate fairly slowly. If the user increases the tilt the rotation speed may increase proportionally.

Though the aforementioned examples describe peeking and flipping to the next image in the set of images it should be appreciated that the same techniques may be used to peek or flip to a previous image or previous images in the set of images.

Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numerals represent like parts illustrates a method for utilizing a tilt display service in accordance with at least one embodiment. For example in use case a user device e.g. a cell phone having a display screen may be positioned at a substantially flat position . The user may utilize the user device to select a set of images to view. For instance the user may access an application via the user device in order to browse to an item offered for sale on an electronic marketplace. The user may then select a set of images of the item via user device . The set of images may be obtained by the tilt display service . When user device is positioned at substantially flat position the tilt display service may cause display screen to present the user with a display of the first image of the set of images in this example a picture of a first coffee maker .

In accordance with at least one embodiment use case depicts user device tilted to a first tilt position . At such a position the tilt display service may cause a peek display to be provided to the user via display screen . The peek display may depict a portion of the first coffee maker and a portion of a second image of the set of images in this example the second image comprising a second coffee maker . Though the peek display in this example depicts approximately equal portions of each image it should be appreciated that the peek display may provide more of the image of the first coffee maker than the image of the second coffee maker . Alternatively the peek display may display more of the image of the second coffee maker than the image of the first coffee maker . The relative proportion of the displayed portion of the first coffee maker as compared to the second coffee maker may be based at least in part on the degree of tilt of the first tilt position .

In accordance with at least one embodiment use case depicts the user device tilted to a second tilt position . In at least one example the second tilt position may be a greater tilt angle than the first tilt position . At this position the tilt display service may transition from the peek display to a display comprising the second image of the set of images in its entirety. In this example display screen may transition from providing peek display to providing the whole image of the second coffee maker .

In accordance with at least one embodiment transitional animation may comprise a wipe animation a cross fade animation a fade in animation a fade out animation or any suitable animation known in the art to change a display of one image to a display of another image. A suitable animation is one that is capable of being used to change the display of one image to the display of another image and would be apparent to one skilled in the art. Additionally transitional animation may comprise multiple animations executed sequentially or simultaneously.

In some examples the networks may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks. While the illustrated example represents the users accessing the browsing application over the networks the described techniques may equally apply in instances where the users interact with the service provider computers via the one or more user computing devices over a landline phone via a kiosk or in any other manner. It is also noted that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements e.g. set top boxes etc. as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored applications etc. .

As described briefly above the browsing application may allow the users to interact with the service provider computers such as to access information associated with items offered for sale via an electronic marketplace. The one or more service provider computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm may host the browsing application and or cloud based software services. Other server architectures may also be used to host the browsing application and or cloud based software services. The browsing application may be capable of handling requests from many users and serving in response various user interfaces that can be rendered at the user computing devices such as but not limited to perceived latency or the like. The browsing application can provide any type of website that supports user interaction including search engine sites. As discussed above the described techniques can similarly be implemented outside of the browsing application such as with other applications running on the user computing devices .

The user computing devices may be any type of computing device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a desktop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a tablet PC an electronic book e book reader etc. User computing devices may include a gyroscope an accelerometer an altimeter or any suitable hardware sensor capable of detecting movement or orientation of user computing devices . In some examples the user computing devices may be in communication with the service provider computers via the networks or via other network connections. Additionally the user computing devices may be part of the distributed system managed by controlled by or otherwise part of the service provider computers .

In one illustrative configuration the user computing devices may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instructions or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of user computing devices the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The user computing devices may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the perceived latency such as via the browsing application or dedicated applications e.g. smart phone applications tablet applications etc. . The browsing application may be configured to receive store and or interact with service provider computers . Additionally the memory may store access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords and or other user information. In some examples the user information may include information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like.

In some aspects the service provider computers may be any type of computing devices such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a server computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. Additionally it should be appreciated that in some embodiments the service provider computers are executed by one or more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment. In some examples the service provider computers may be in communication with the user computing devices and or other service providers via the networks or via other network connections. The service provider computers may include one or more servers perhaps arranged in a cluster as a server farm or as individual servers not associated with one another. These servers may be configured to implement the tilt display functionality described herein as part of an integrated distributed computing environment.

In one illustrative configuration the service provider computers may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instructions or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of service provider computers the memory may be volatile such as RAM and or non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. . The service provider computers or servers may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as SRAM DRAM or ROM.

The memory and the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The memory and the additional storage are examples of computer storage media. Additional types of computer storage media that may be present in the service provider computers may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the service provider computers . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively computer readable communication media may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein computer readable storage media does not include computer readable communication media.

The service provider computers may also contain communications connection s that allow the service provider computers to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the networks . The service provider computers may also include I O device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail which will be described in further detail in the memory may include an operating system one or more data stores and or one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including a tilt display service .

In accordance with at least one embodiment a method is enabled for browsing through a set of images. For example the tilt display service may be a component of user device e.g. user computing devices . Alternatively the tilt display service may be a component of the service provider computers e.g. the service provider computers .

In accordance with at least one embodiment a user may configure the tilt display service via a graphical user interface a component of the tilt display service . The user may enter configuration information via user device e.g. user computing devices communicating via network e.g. networks . Alternatively configuration information may be obtained from any sources including but not limited to an administrator an application programmer and or a user. Configuration information may include but is not limited to a flat threshold angle a flip threshold angle transition preferences and speed settings. The flat threshold angle may indicate an upper maximum angle under which the user device may be deemed to be at a flat position. For instance a user may decide that the flat threshold angle may be an angle of two degrees. In this example any angle of tilt under two degrees may be interpreted as if user device was positioned with a zero degree tilt. A flip threshold angle may be configured that may indicate the angle at which an image should be replaced with the previous or next image in the set of images. Whether the image should be replaced with the previous or next image in the set of images may depend on the direction in which the user device is tilted. The speed setting may be configured by the user to increase or decrease the pace at which transitions executed by the tilt display service occur.

In accordance with at least one embodiment once information is entered via graphical user interface application programming interface a component of tilt display service may be utilized to communicate the information to tilt display service .

In at least one example configuration manager a component of the tilt display service may be configured to receive configuration information from a user of the user device . The configuration manager may be responsible for creating and maintaining a user profile utilized to store such configuration information. Further the configuration manager may cause such configuration data to be stored within the tilt display service and or configuration data store a data store being a type utilized for storing such configuration data.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a user may utilize a browsing application e.g. the browsing application to navigate and select a set of images provided by service provider computers . Display manager a component of tilt display service may be configured to receive such information. Upon receipt display manager may utilize application programming interface to retrieve the selected set of images from service provider computers . On retrieval e.g. download display manager may cause the set of images to be stored in image data store . Alternatively the display manager may utilize the application programming interface to gain access to the selected set of images located on service provider computers or a data store remote to tilt display service .

In accordance with at least one embodiment device information may be detected by sensors of user device and communicated via the application programming interface to tilt display service . Device information may include information pertaining to an angle an altitude and or an orientation at which the user device may be positioned. Display manager may be configured to receive the device information. Display manager may determine that a transition from one image of the set of images to another image of the set of images should occur. The determination may be based on the received device information. For instance as described in previous examples device information may indicate that user device is positioned at an angle of five degrees to the right. As a result display manager may cause a peek display to be provided to the user via user device where the peak display provides a portion of the first image and a portion of the second image. Alternatively display manager may cause service provider computers to cause a peek display to be provided to the user via the user device .

In accordance with at least one embodiment in response to receiving device information display manager may access configuration data from configuration data store to determine what if any transition to use. For instance perhaps configuration information indicates that the flip threshold value is fifteen degrees and that a lenticular animation should be used when transitioning between images. Additionally assume that the received device information indicates the device is tilted 16 degrees to the right. In at least one example the display manager utilizing the example configuration information and example device information may cause a lenticular animation to be executed causing a transition from the current display to the next image in the set of images in the manner described in .

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be appreciated that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be appreciated that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. Also the data store is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be appreciated that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the client device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the environment in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices that can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Open System Interconnection OSI File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be appreciated however that there is no intention to limit the disclosure to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is intended to be understood within the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to each be present.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the disclosure. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

