---

title: Tactile feedback generated by phase conjugation of ultrasound surface acoustic waves
abstract: Described embodiments include a system and a method. A system includes an ultrasound locator transmitter acoustically coupled with an ultrasound-conducting layer of a display surface and configured to broadcast a detection ultrasound wave across at least a portion the ultrasound-conducting layer. An ultrasound receiver is acoustically coupled with the ultrasound-conducting layer and configured to receive a portion of the detection ultrasound wave scattered from a touch by the human appendage to a location on the display surface. A steered-beam ultrasound transmitter is acoustically coupled with the ultrasound-conducting layer and configured to deliver a focused ultrasound wave to the touch location. The focused ultrasound wave has a power density producing a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage at the touch location. A stimulation controller is configured to initiate a delivery of the focused ultrasound wave to the touch location by the steered-beam ultrasound transmitter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08884927&OS=08884927&RS=08884927
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 08884927
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130627
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s . In addition the present application is related to the Related Applications if any listed below.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 929 337 entitled TACTILE DISPLAY DRIVEN BY SURFACE ACOUSTIC WAVES naming Jesse R. Cheatham III William Gates Roderick A. Hyde Muriel Y. Ishikawa Jordin T. Kare Nathan P. Myhrvold Tony S. Pan Robert C. Petroski Lowell L. Wood Jr. and Victoria Y. H. Wood as inventors filed Jun. 27 2013 is related to the present

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 929 387 entitled TACTILE FEEDBACK GENERATED BY NON LINEAR INTERACTION OF SURFACE ACOUSTIV WAVES naming Jesse R. Cheatham III William Gates Roderick A. Hyde Muriel Y. Ishikawa Jordin T. Kare Nathan P. Myhrvold Tony S. Pan Robert C. Petroski Lowell L. Wood Jr. and Victoria Y. H. Wood as inventors filed Jun. 27 2013 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 929 543 entitled TACTILE FEEDBACK IN A TWO OR THREE DIMENSIONAL AIRSPACE naming Jesse R. Cheatham III William Gates Roderick A. Hyde Muriel Y. Ishikawa Jordin T. Kare Nathan P. Myhrvold Tony S. Pan Robert C. Petroski Lowell L. Wood Jr. and Victoria Y. H. Wood as inventors filed Jun. 27 2013 is related to the present application.

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a system. The system includes an ultrasound locator transmitter acoustically coupled with an ultrasound conducting layer of a display surface and configured to broadcast a detection ultrasound wave across at least a portion the ultrasound conducting layer. The system includes an ultrasound receiver acoustically coupled with the ultrasound conducting layer and configured to receive a portion of the detection ultrasound wave scattered from a touch by the human appendage to a location on the display surface. The system includes a steered beam ultrasound transmitter acoustically coupled with the ultrasound conducting layer and configured to deliver a focused ultrasound wave to the touch location the focused ultrasound wave having a power density producing a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage at the touch location. The system includes a stimulation controller configured to initiate a delivery of the focused ultrasound wave to the touch location by the steered beam ultrasound transmitter.

In an embodiment the system includes a location circuit configured to determine the touch location in response to the received portion of the scattered detection ultrasound wave. In an embodiment the system includes a scanning controller configured to initiate the broadcast of the detection ultrasound wave by the ultrasound locator transmitter. In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter is further configured to deliver both a first focused ultrasound wave and a second focused ultrasound wave to the touch location. The first ultrasound wave having a first carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response of the ultrasound conducting layer. The second ultrasound wave having a second carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response of the ultrasound conducting layer. The parameters of the first carrier frequency and amplitude and second carrier frequency and amplitude are such that a non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave at the touch location produces a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. The method includes broadcasting a detection ultrasound wave through an ultrasound conducting layer of a display surface and across at least two possible locations of a touch by a human appendage to the display surface. The method includes receiving in an ultrasound receiver a portion of the detection ultrasound wave scattered from a touch by the human appendage to a location of the at least two possible locations on the display surface. The ultrasound receiver is acoustically coupled with the ultrasound conducting layer of the display surface. The method includes delivering a focused ultrasound wave to the touch location. The focused ultrasound wave is transmitted by a steered beam ultrasound transmitter and has a power density producing a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage at the touch location. In an embodiment the method includes determining a location of the touch by the human appendage to the display surface in response to the received portion of the scattered detection ultrasound wave.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a system. The system includes an ultrasound locator transmitter acoustically coupled with an ultrasound conducting layer of a display surface and configured to broadcast a detection ultrasound wave across at least a portion of the ultrasound conducting layer. The system includes a first ultrasound receiver acoustically coupled with the ultrasound conducting layer and configured to receive a first portion of the detection ultrasound wave scattered from a touch by the human appendage to the display surface. The system includes a first steered beam ultrasound transmitter acoustically coupled with the ultrasound conducting layer and configured to deliver a first focused ultrasound wave to the touch location. The delivery of the first focused ultrasound wave is responsive to the received first scattered portion of the detection ultrasound wave. The first focused ultrasound wave having a first carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response of the ultrasound conducting layer. The system includes a second ultrasound receiver acoustically coupled with the ultrasound conducting layer and configured to receive a second portion of the detection ultrasound wave scattered from the touch by the human appendage to the display surface. The system includes a second steered beam ultrasound transmitter acoustically coupled with the ultrasound conducting layer and configured to deliver a second focused ultrasound wave to the touch location. The delivery of the second focused ultrasound wave is responsive to the received second scattered portion of the detection ultrasound wave. The second focused ultrasound wave has a second carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response of the ultrasound conducting layer. The system includes a stimulation controller configured to initiate a delivery of the first focused ultrasound wave and a delivery of the second focused ultrasound wave to the touch location. The parameters of the first carrier frequency and amplitude and the second carrier frequency and amplitude are such that a non linear interaction of the first focused ultrasound wave and the second focused ultrasound wave at the touch location produces a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage.

In an embodiment the system includes a location circuit configured to determine the touch location in response to the first received portion of the scattered detection ultrasound wave or the second received portion of the scattered detection ultrasound wave. In an embodiment the system includes a scanning controller configured to initiate the broadcast of the detection ultrasound wave.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. The method includes broadcasting a detection ultrasound wave through an ultrasound conducting layer of a display surface and across at least two possible locations of a touch by a human appendage to the display surface. The method includes receiving in a first ultrasound receiver acoustically coupled with the ultrasound conducting layer a first portion of the detection ultrasound wave scattered from a touch by the human appendage to a location on the display surface. The method includes in response to the received first portion of the detection ultrasound wave delivering to the touch location a first focused ultrasound wave generated by a first steered beam ultrasound transmitter. The first focused ultrasound wave having a first carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response in the ultrasound conducting layer. The method includes receiving in a second ultrasound receiver acoustically coupled with the ultrasound conducting layer a second portion of the detection ultrasound wave scattered from the touch by the human appendage to the location on the display surface. The method includes in response to the received second portion of the detection ultrasound wave delivering to the touch location a second focused ultrasound wave generated by a second steered beam ultrasound transmitter. The second focused ultrasound wave having a first carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response in the ultrasound conducting layer. The parameters of the first carrier frequency and amplitude and second carrier frequency and amplitude are such that a non linear interaction of the first focused ultrasound wave and the second focused ultrasound wave at the touch location produces a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage.

In an embodiment the method includes determining the touch location in response the first received portion of the scattered detection ultrasound wave or the second received portion of the scattered detection ultrasound wave.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware software and or firmware implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware software and or firmware is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various implementations by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred implementation will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware implementation alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible implementations by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any implementation to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the implementation will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In some implementations described herein logic and similar implementations may include software or other control structures suitable to implement an operation. Electronic circuitry for example may manifest one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various logic functions as described herein. In some implementations one or more media are configured to bear a device detectable implementation if such media hold or transmit a special purpose device instruction set operable to perform as described herein. In some variants for example this may manifest as an update or other modification of existing software or firmware or of gate arrays or other programmable hardware such as by performing a reception of or a transmission of one or more instructions in relation to one or more operations described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of tangible transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

Alternatively or additionally implementations may include executing a special purpose instruction sequence or otherwise invoking circuitry for enabling triggering coordinating requesting or otherwise causing one or more occurrences of any functional operations described below. In some variants operational or other logical descriptions herein may be expressed directly as source code and compiled or otherwise invoked as an executable instruction sequence. In some contexts for example C or other code sequences can be compiled directly or otherwise implemented in high level descriptor languages e.g. a logic synthesizable language a hardware description language a hardware design simulation and or other such similar mode s of expression . Alternatively or additionally some or all of the logical expression may be manifested as a Verilog type hardware description or other circuitry model before physical implementation in hardware especially for basic operations or timing critical applications. Those skilled in the art will recognize how to obtain configure and optimize suitable transmission or computational elements material supplies actuators or other common structures in light of these teachings.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof and a wide range of components that may impart mechanical force or motion such as rigid bodies spring or torsional bodies hydraulics electro magnetically actuated devices and or virtually any combination thereof. Consequently as used herein electro mechanical system includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry operably coupled with a transducer e.g. an actuator a motor a piezoelectric crystal a Micro Electro Mechanical System MEMS etc. electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem module communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. and or any non electrical analog thereto such as optical or other analogs. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that examples of electro mechanical systems include but are not limited to a variety of consumer electronics systems medical devices as well as other systems such as motorized transport systems factory automation systems security systems and or communication computing systems. Those skilled in the art will recognize that electro mechanical as used herein is not necessarily limited to a system that has both electrical and mechanical actuation except as context may dictate otherwise.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will also recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will further recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into an image processing system. A typical image processing system may generally include one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch sensitive screen or display surface an antenna etc. control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing lens position and or velocity control motors for moving distorting lenses to give desired focuses . An image processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in digital still systems and or digital motion systems.

Those skilled in the art will likewise recognize that at least some of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch sensitive screen or display surface an antenna etc. and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A data processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The thin computing device includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between sub components within the thin computing device such as during start up is stored in the ROM . A number of program modules may be stored in the ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data .

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through one or more input interfaces. An input interface may include a touch sensitive screen or display surface or one or more switches or buttons with suitable input detection circuitry. A touch sensitive screen or display surface is illustrated as a touch sensitive display and screen input detector . One or more switches or buttons are illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a hardware button interface . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface or a physical hardware keyboard not shown . Output devices may include the display or a projector display .

In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker . Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are examples and other components and means of establishing communication links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and are coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information a camera capturing and saving an image or communicating with an implantable medical apparatus.

In certain instances one or more elements of the thin computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the thin computing device.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media. By way of further example and not of limitation computer readable media may include a communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communication media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media may include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by the processor . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include at least one of a touch sensitive screen or display surface joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processor through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A display such as a monitor or other type of display device or surface may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A projector display engine that includes a projecting element may be coupled to the system bus. In addition to the display the computing device may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN and may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the network through a network interface such as the network interface the modem or the wireless interface . The network may include a LAN network environment or a WAN network environment such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are examples and other means of establishing a communication link between the computers may be used.

In certain instances one or more elements of the computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the computing device.

To aid a user s operation of a touch sensitive display it is advantageous to provide feedback to the user confirming that the display recognizes a touch contact or motion. Haptic feedback is often a preferable feedback mode as it more closely corresponds to the touch action being performed. Haptic feedback can be provided by vibrating the display surface so as to impart a humanly perceivable stress pressure or shear to a finger of the user. However in delivering such a vibration a designer faces a challenge the frequencies which are best perceived by humans as stress are at low frequencies e.g. 1 kHz or lower but such frequencies have long wavelengths e.g. 1 meter or above. As a result it is difficult to localize the vibrations to the specific location on the display being touched hence such tactile feedback is often delivered without localization by vibrating the entire screen. Such a global vibration expends more energy than would a vibration localized to the touch location thereby using more battery energy. It is also apparent that users operating a multi touch display would benefit from receiving localized and distinct tactile feedback at each contacting finger rather than a single undifferentiated feedback. Vibrations at ultrasound frequencies do provide short enough wavelengths to be well localized at touch contact sites within a display surface but humans to not perceive such high frequency vibrations as readily as lower difficult to localize ones. It is therefore advantageous to combine the localization of ultrasound frequency vibrations with the human perceivability of acoustic frequency vibrations.

The system includes a controller configured to initiate a delivery of the down modulated ultrasound wave to the first delineated area by the ultrasound transmitter in response to an indication of a detected touch by the human appendage to at least a portion of the first delineated area .

In an embodiment the display surface includes a touch screen display surface. In an embodiment the display surface includes a dynamic display surface. For example a dynamic display surface may include a screen or monitor of computer tablet laptop smart phone or television. In an embodiment a dynamic display surface may include a surface having a content projected onto it. In an embodiment the display surface includes a static display surface. For example a static display surface may include a static picture or graphic.

In an embodiment the ultrasound wave includes a longitudinal wave or a shear wave. In an embodiment the down modulated ultrasound wave includes a down modulated surface acoustic wave. In an embodiment the human appendage includes a stylus held or gripped by the human appendage. In an embodiment the human appendage includes a portion of a human hand. For example a portion of the human hand may include a finger thumb palm or heel of the human hand.

In an embodiment the down modulated ultrasound wave includes a frequency downshifted modulated ultrasound wave. In an embodiment the frequency downshifted modulated ultrasound wave includes at least one frequency component lower than a primary carrier frequency of the ultrasound wave. For example U.S. Pub. Pat. App. 2011 0260988 Method and Apparatus for Increasing Magnitude and Frequency of Forces Applied to a Bare Finger on a Haptic Surface J. E. Cogate et al. describes the human fingertip as sensitive to vibrations in a range of 20 Hz to about 500 Hz with a peak in sensitivity at about 250 Hz. For example a 20 kHz ultrasound carrier may be modulated at 1 kHz. For example the modulated ultrasound wave may be frequency downshifted by 75 . I.e. 20 kHz to 5 kHz. For example the modulated ultrasound wave may be frequency downshifted by 90 . I.e. 20 kHz to 2 kHz. In an embodiment the down modulated ultrasound wave includes a frequency downshifted modulated ultrasound wave configured to produce a chirp modulation. In an embodiment the frequency downshifted modulated ultrasound wave includes at least two frequency components lower than a primary carrier frequency of the ultrasound wave. In an embodiment the at least one frequency component is less than 1 kHz. In an embodiment the at least one frequency component is less than 100 Hz. In an embodiment the down modulated ultrasound wave is configured to produce a selected tactile sensation in the human appendage. For example a selected tactile sensation may include a varying pattern such as a chirp or sharp sensation or a softer pulsating sensation. In an embodiment the down modulated ultrasound wave includes an amplitude modulated a frequency modulated or a single sideband down modulated ultrasonic wave. In an embodiment the down modulated ultrasound wave includes an ultrasound wave having a modulation parameter selected in response to the particular part of the human appendage touching the display surface. For example a particular part of the human appendage may include a thumb finger palm or elbow.

In an embodiment the down modulated ultrasound wave includes an ultrasound wave having a modulation parameter selected in response to the particular action or context associated with the human appendage touching the display surface. For example the user may employ the touch in order to select a displayed item to drag an item to copy an item to change the size of an item to drop an item or the like such actions may invoke different modulation parameters. For example the effect of a user s touch may depend on context e.g. the user may touch an item without first having dropped a previously selected one may intend to select multiple items may attempt to drop an item without previously selecting one or the like such contextual information may be conveyed via different modulation parameters. The selected modulation parameter may include an ultrasound power level or down modulation frequency.

In an embodiment the first delineated area substantially corresponds to the touch location of the human appendage. In an embodiment the power density of the ultrasound wave within the first delineated area is greater than that within a second delineated area. It is expected that the difference in power density will assist the human in discerning between the first delineated area and the second delineated area. In an embodiment the power density of the ultrasound wave within the first delineated area is greater than that within a second delineated area by a factor of two by a factor of five or by a factor of ten.

In an embodiment the ultrasound wave longitudinal or shear can be directed steered and or focused by an array of transmitter elements these may be located along part or all of the border of the display. The wave can be directed steered and or focused by controlling the phase and or amplitude of the waves emitted from each transmitter element of the array. In an embodiment the ultrasound transmitter illustrated by the ultrasound transmitter includes a phased array ultrasound transmitter so as to control the phase of the waves. In an embodiment the ultrasound transmitter includes an amplitude patterned ultrasound transmitter so as to control the amplitude of the waves. In an embodiment the ultrasound transmitter includes a holographic amplitude ultrasound transmitter so as to control the amplitude of the waves.

In an embodiment the controller includes a controller configured to i receive an indication of a detected touch to at least a portion of the first delineated area ii retrieve or select a down modulation pattern from a lookup table responsive to the indication of the detected touch and iii initiate a delivery to the first delineated area of the down modulated ultrasound wave by the ultrasound transmitter the ultrasound wave down modulated in response to the retrieved or selected modulation pattern. In an embodiment the controller is further configured to select an aspect of the modulation pattern from a lookup table responsive to the indication of the detected touch. For example a selected aspect may include a particular frequency or pattern i.e. a chirp slowly fluctuating waveform. In an embodiment the down modulated ultrasound wave includes a down modulated ultrasonic wave having a power density producing a haptic stimulation directly perceivable or discernible by a human appendage touching the first delineated area. In an embodiment the down modulated ultrasound wave includes a down modulated ultrasonic wave having a power density producing a tactile haptic feedback directly perceivable or discernible by a human appendage touching the first delineated area.

In an embodiment the system includes a touch tracking device configured to detect a touch by the human appendage to at least a portion of the first delineated area illustrated as delineated area . For example the touch tracking device may be carried on board a device that includes the display surface or it may stand alone from the device that includes the display surface. For example the touch tracking device may be a component of a touch screen computing device e.g. a resistive or capacitive sensor used to report the touch location to an operating system or application running on the touch screen computing device. For example the touch tracking device may include a camera or a probe. For example the touch tracking device may include the position or motion tracking technology of the Wii Remote of the Wii by Nintendo of America Redmond Wash. For example the touch tracking device may include the position or motion tracking technology of the Kinect by Microsoft Redmond Wash. For example the touch tracking device may include the position or motion tracking technology of the Leap Motion Controller by Leap Motion Inc. San Francisco Calif. In an embodiment the ultrasound transceiver and the ultrasound transmitter share at least one component. In an embodiment the touch tracking device includes at least one component of a touch sensitive display surface. For example a single transceiver may perform both tracking and delivering the down modulated wave.

In an embodiment the touch tracking device includes a touch sensitive display surface. In an embodiment the touch tracking device is further configured to report a location of the detected touch. In an embodiment the touch tracking device is further configured to report a firmness of the detected touch. In an embodiment the touch tracking device is further configured to report a duration of the detected touch.

In an embodiment an ultrasound transmitter includes a first ultrasound transmitter illustrated as the ultrasound transmitter and a second ultrasound transmitter illustrated as the ultrasound transmitter . The first ultrasound transmitter is acoustically coupled to the ultrasound conducting layer of a display surface and configured to deliver a first down modulated ultrasound wave to a first delineated area of at least two delineated areas of the display surface. The first delineated area is illustrated by delineated area of the at least two delineated areas and first down modulated ultrasound wave is illustrated by down modulated ultrasound wave . The first down modulated ultrasound wave having a power density producing a first stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by a human appendage touching the first delineated area. The second ultrasound transmitter is acoustically coupled to the ultrasound conducting layer of the display surface and configured to deliver a second down modulated ultrasound wave to a second delineated area of the at least two delineated areas of the display surface. The second delineated area is illustrated by delineated area and the second down modulated ultrasound wave is illustrated by down modulated ultrasound wave . The second down modulated ultrasound wave has a power density producing a second stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by a human appendage touching not illustrated the second delineated area. In this embodiment the controller includes a controller configured to i initiate a delivery of the first down modulated ultrasound wave to the first delineated area by the first ultrasound transmitter in response to an indication of a first detected touch by the human appendage to at least a portion of the first delineated area or ii initiate a delivery of the second down modulated ultrasound wave to the second delineated area by the second ultrasound transmitter in response to an indication of a second detected touch by the human appendage to at least a portion of the second delineated area. In an embodiment the first modulated ultrasound wave and the second modulated ultrasound wave have different carrier frequencies. In an embodiment the first modulated ultrasound wave and the second modulated ultrasound wave have a substantially same carrier frequency. In an embodiment the second stress pattern includes a difference from the first stress pattern that is a humanly perceivable or discernible difference. For example a frequency difference of approximately 100 Hz or approximately 200 Hz is expected to produce a humanly perceivable or discernible difference. In an embodiment the first stress pattern produces a first directly perceivable or discernible effect on the human appendage and the second stress pattern produces a second and different directly perceivable or discernible effect on the human appendage. For example the first wave may be modulated at 1000 kHz and the second wave modulated at 1200 kHz or some other frequency where a difference is readily perceivable by the average human appendage.

In the embodiment the ultrasound transmitter further includes a third ultrasound transmitter illustrated by the ultrasound transmitter . The third ultrasound transmitter is acoustically coupled to the ultrasound conducting layer of the display surface and configured to deliver a third down modulated ultrasound wave to a third delineated area of the display surface illustrated as delivering the down modulated ultrasound wave to a third delineated area of the display surface. The third down modulated ultrasound wave has a power density producing a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage touching the third delineated area. In this embodiment the controller is further configured to i initiate a delivery of the first down modulated ultrasound wave to the first delineated area by the first ultrasound transmitter in response to an indication of a first detected touch by the human appendage to at least a portion of the first delineated area ii initiate a delivery of the second down modulated ultrasound wave to the second delineated area by the second ultrasound transmitter in response to an indication of a second detected touch by the human appendage to at least a portion of the second delineated area or iii initiate a delivery of the third down modulated ultrasound wave to the third delineated area by the third ultrasound transmitter in response to an indication of a third detected touch by the human appendage to at least a portion of the third delineated area. In this embodiment the first stress pattern produces a first directly perceivable or discernible effect on the human appendage the second stress pattern produces a second and different directly perceivable or discernible effect on the human appendage and the third stress pattern produces a third and further different directly perceivable or discernible effect on the human appendage. further illustrates ultrasound transmitter configured to deliver down modulated ultrasound wave and ultrasound transmitter configured to deliver down modulated ultrasound wave .

In an embodiment the operational flow includes an operation retrieving or selecting the down modulation pattern from a lookup table in response to the detected touch. In an embodiment the retrieving or selecting is responsive to a location strength duration or motion aspect of the detected touch. In an embodiment the operation may be implemented using the lookup table described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the operational flow includes a second sensing operation . The second sensing operation includes detecting a second touch by the human appendage to at least a portion of a second delineated area of the display surface. In this embodiment the operational flow includes a second tactile feedback operation . The second tactile feedback operation includes activating a second ultrasound transmitter coupled to the ultrasound conducting layer and configured to deliver a second down modulated ultrasound wave to the second delineated area. The second down modulated ultrasound wave having a second power density producing second stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage touching the second delineated area. In an embodiment the first down modulated ultrasound wave and the second down modulated ultrasound wave are delivered simultaneously or sequentially. For example a perception of a simultaneous delivery may be accomplished by an interleaved delivery of the first down modulated ultrasound wave and the second down modulated ultrasound wave i.e. 5 milliseconds to first delineated area 5 milliseconds to the second delineated area 5 milliseconds to first delineated area and so on. For example a perception of a sequential delivery may be accomplished by an alternating delivery of the first down modulated ultrasound wave and the second down modulated ultrasound wave i.e. 1 second to first delineated area 1 second to the second delineated area 1 second to first delineated area and so on. In an embodiment the first and second appendage can be different portions i.e. different fingers of an appendage.

In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter illustrated by the steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a steered beam ultrasound transducer. In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a steered beam ultrasound transmitter array. For example the steered beam ultrasound transmitter array may be electronically focused. In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a steered beam phased array ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes at least one of a linear semi circular or annular sector phased array ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a steered beam amplitude patterned ultrasound transmitter.

In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a first steered beam ultrasound transmitter and a second steered beam ultrasound transmitter. For example the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter may be illustrated by the steered beam ultrasound transmitter and the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter may be illustrated by the steered beam ultrasound transmitter . A linear interaction of the down modulated ultrasound wave delivered by the steered beam ultrasound transmitter and the down modulated ultrasound wave delivered by the steered beam ultrasound transmitter to the selected delineated area producing a linear interaction at the selected delineated area. In an embodiment a direction of a first plane along a line of the transducer elements of the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter is non collinear with respect to a direction of a second plane along a line of the transducer elements of the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter and a second steered beam ultrasound transmitter are physically spaced apart. In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a steered beam ultrasound transmitter configured to deliver a phase conjugated down modulated ultrasound wave to a selected delineated area of the at least two delineated areas. In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a steered beam ultrasound transmitter configured to deliver a focused phase conjugated down modulated ultrasound wave to a selected delineated area of the at least two delineated areas.

In an embodiment the controller is configured to select a delineated area from the at least two delineated areas in response to an indication of a location of a detected touch by the human appendage to the display surface . In an embodiment the controller is configured to select a delineated area from the at least two delineated areas nearest to a location of a detected touch by the human appendage to the display surface.

In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter illustrated as the steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a phased array ultrasound transmitter configured to deliver a first ultrasound wave having a first modulation to a first selected delineated area of the at least two delineated areas and configured to deliver a second ultrasound wave having a second modulation to a second selected delineated area of the at least two delineated areas. In an embodiment the phased array ultrasound transmitter is configured to simultaneously or sequentially deliver the first down modulated ultrasound wave and the second down modulated ultrasound wave. For example interlaced transducer elements may be used to deliver the first and second ultrasound waves. For example a first portion of transducer elements may be used to deliver the first ultrasound wave and a second portion of transducer elements may be used to deliver the second ultrasound wave. In an embodiment the delivery of the first down modulated ultrasound wave and the delivery of the second down modulated ultrasound wave are coordinated to appear simultaneous to the human appendages. In an embodiment the delivery of the first down modulated ultrasound wave and the delivery of the second down modulated ultrasound wave are coordinated to appear sequential to the human appendages. For example the delivery may be considered as analogous to visual input within the eye s flicker response time. In an embodiment the controller is configured to i select a first delineated area from the at least two delineated areas in response to an indication of a location of a first detected touch by the human appendage to the display surface and to initiate a delivery by the phased array ultrasound transmitter of the first down modulated ultrasound wave to the selected first delineated area or ii select a second delineated area from the at least two delineated areas in response to an indication of a location of a second detected touch by the human appendage to the display surface and to initiate a delivery by the phased array ultrasound transmitter of the second down modulated ultrasound wave to the selected second delineated area.

In an embodiment the system includes a touch tracking device configured to detect a touch by the human appendage to at least a portion of the first delineated area or to at least a portion of the second delineated area.

In an embodiment a delineated area includes a delineated selectable area or a region or area displayed by or projected on a two dimensional display surface . In an embodiment the ultrasound wave includes a longitudinal or a shear wave. In an embodiment the first ultrasonic wave includes a first surface acoustic wave. In an embodiment the second ultrasonic wave includes a second surface acoustic wave. In an embodiment the first ultrasonic wave propagates . toward the selected delineated area in a first direction and the second ultrasonic wave propagates . toward the selected delineated area in a second direction that is non collinear with respect to the first direction. In an embodiment the second direction is orthogonal with respect to the first direction. In an embodiment a direction of a first plane along a line of the transducer elements of the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter is orthogonal with respect to a direction of a second plane along the line of the transducer elements of the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter .

In an embodiment the non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave at the selected delineated area produces a stress pattern having a frequency downshifted component. The nonlinear combination of two waves having different frequencies so as to produce a frequency downshifted component is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and is described for air by P. J. Westervelt J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 35 535 537 1963 . In an embodiment the non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave at the particular delineated area produces a stress pattern having a frequency component between approximately 10 Hz and 1000 Hz. In an embodiment the non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave at the particular delineated area produces a stress pattern having a frequency component between approximately 32 Hz and 8400 Hz. In an embodiment the produced stress pattern includes a frequency component between approximately 65 Hz and 4190 Hz. In an embodiment the produced stress pattern includes a frequency component between approximately 130 Hz and 2100 Hz. In an embodiment the produced stress pattern includes a frequency component between approximately 260 Hz and 1500 Hz. In an embodiment the produced stress pattern includes a frequency component between approximately 520 Hz and 1050 Hz. In an embodiment the non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave at the selected delineated area produces a stress pattern having a frequency downshifted component. For example the stress pattern having a frequency downshifted component may be produced by an addition or subtraction of the amplitudes of the first carrier frequency or the second carrier frequency. In an embodiment the parameters of the first carrier frequency amplitude and pulse duration and second carrier frequency amplitude and pulse duration are such that a non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave at the selected delineated area produces a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage. In an embodiment the stress pattern is tactilely perceivable or discernible by the human appendage. In an embodiment the stress pattern produces a haptic stimulation directly perceivable or discernible by a human appendage touching the first delineated area. In an embodiment the stress pattern produces a tactile haptic feedback directly perceivable or discernible by a human appendage touching the first delineated area. In an embodiment the non linear interaction includes a non linear superposition.

In an embodiment the controller is configured to i receive an indication of a location of a detected touch by a human appendage to the display surface ii retrieve or select a stress pattern from a lookup table responsive to the indication of the location of the detected touch iii in response to the retrieved or selected stress pattern specify the first carrier frequency and amplitude and second carrier frequency and amplitude and iv initiate a delivery of the specified first ultrasonic wave by the first ultrasound transmitter and a delivery of the second specified ultrasonic wave by the second ultrasound transmitter to the selected delineated area.

In an embodiment the system includes a touch tracking device configured to determine a location of a touch by the human appendage to the display surface . In an embodiment the touch tracking device is configured to determine a location of a touch by the human appendage relative to a delineated area of the display surface. In an embodiment the touch tracking device is further configured to report a location of the detected touch. In an embodiment the touch tracking device is further configured to report a firmness of the detected touch. In an embodiment the touch tracking device is further configured to report a duration of the detected touch.

In an embodiment the system includes a third ultrasound transmitter not illustrated acoustically coupled to the ultrasound conducting layer . The third ultrasound transmitter is configured to deliver a third ultrasound wave to another delineated area selected from the at least two delineated areas . The third ultrasonic wave has a third carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response of the ultrasound conducting layer. The parameters of the first carrier frequency and amplitude and third carrier frequency and amplitude are such that a non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the third ultrasound wave at the another selected delineated area produces another stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by another human appendage. In an embodiment the controller is further configured to select the another delineated area from the at least two delineated areas in response to another indication of a location of another detected touch by another human appendage to the display surface. For example the human appendage may include a right index finger and the another human appendage may include a left index finger. The controller is also configured to initiate a delivery of the first ultrasonic wave by the first ultrasound transmitter and a delivery of the third ultrasonic wave by the third ultrasound transmitter to the another selected delineated area. In an embodiment the delivery of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave to the selected delineated area and the delivery of the first ultrasound wave and the third ultrasound wave to the another delineated area are coordinated by the controller to appear sequential.

In an embodiment of the system the first ultrasound transmitter includes a first steered beam ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the first ultrasound transmitter includes a first steered beam ultrasound transmitter and the second ultrasound transmitter includes a second steered beam ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter and the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter are not co aligned. In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter is configured to deliver a first phase conjugated ultrasound wave. In an embodiment the first ultrasound transmitter includes a steered beam phased array ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes at least one of a linear semi circular or annular sector steered beam ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a first steered beam ultrasound transmitter configured to deliver a first focused phase conjugated ultrasound wave to the selected delineated area. In an embodiment the second ultrasound transmitter is physically spaced apart from the first ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the first ultrasound transmitter includes a first steered beam amplitude patterned ultrasound transmitter.

In an embodiment the ultrasound locator transmitter includes a phased array ultrasound transducer configured to broadcast a detection ultrasound wave across the at least two possible locations of a touch to the display surface by a human appendage. In an embodiment the detection ultrasound wave includes a pulsed detection ultrasound wave. In an embodiment the ultrasound locator transmitter is configured to broadcast a detection ultrasound wave across at least two possible locations of a touch by a human appendage to the display surface. In an embodiment the ultrasound locator transmitter includes a phased array ultrasound locator transmitter configured to broadcast a detection ultrasound wave across the at least two possible locations of a touch to the display surface by a human appendage. In an embodiment the ultrasound locator transmitter includes an amplitude patterned ultrasound transmitter configured to broadcast a detection ultrasound wave across the at least two possible locations of a touch to the display surface by a human appendage.

In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transducer and the ultrasound locator transmitter share at least one component. In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transducer is configured to deliver a focused down modulated ultrasound wave. In an embodiment the focused ultrasound wave includes a focused surface acoustic wave.

In an embodiment the stimulation controller is configured to retrieve a down modulation pattern from a lookup table . The controller is configured to initiate a delivery of the focused ultrasound wave down modulated in response to the retrieved modulation pattern to the determined touch location by the steered beam ultrasound transducer. In an embodiment the down modulation pattern is retrieved from the lookup table in response to determined location of the touch or an attribute of the human appendage. In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transducer includes a phased array ultrasound transducer. In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a steered beam amplitude patterned ultrasound transmitter. In the embodiment the stimulation controller is configured to initiate a delivery of a focused phase conjugated down modulated ultrasound wave to the touch location by the steered beam ultrasound transducer. The delivery is initiated in response to the reception of the portion .S of the scattered detection ultrasound wave . For example the steered beam ultrasound transducer may be considered to have inverted or phase conjugated the received wave .S at each element of the phased array.

In an embodiment the system includes a location circuit configured to determine the touch location in response the received portion .S of the scattered detection ultrasound wave . In an embodiment the location circuit is configured to determine the touch location relative to the steered beam ultrasound transducer . In an embodiment the stimulation controller is configured to initiate a delivery of the focused ultrasound wave to the determined touch location by the steered beam ultrasound transducer. In an embodiment the display surface includes at least two delineated areas . In this embodiment the location circuit is configured to select a delineated area of the at least two delineated areas in response to the determined touch location. In this embodiment the controller is configured to initiate a delivery of the focused ultrasound wave to the selected delineated area.

In an embodiment the system includes a scanning controller configured to initiate the broadcast of the detection ultrasound wave by the ultrasound locater transmitter . In an embodiment the scanning controller is configured to initiate the broadcast of the detection ultrasound wave in response to a schedule a timer or a sensed movement of the human appendage proximate to the display surface .

In an embodiment the steered beam ultrasound transmitter is further configured to deliver both a first focused ultrasound wave and a second focused ultrasound wave to the touch location. The first ultrasound wave has a first carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response of the ultrasound conducting layer . The second ultrasound wave has a second carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response of the ultrasound conducting layer. The parameters of the first carrier frequency and amplitude and second carrier frequency and amplitude are such that a non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave at the touch location produces a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage. In this embodiment the first focused ultrasound wave includes a first phase conjugated focused ultrasound wave and the second focused ultrasound wave includes a second phase conjugated focused ultrasound wave.

In an embodiment the delivering a focused ultrasound wave includes delivering a down modulated focused ultrasound wave. In an embodiment delivering a focused ultrasound wave includes delivering a first focused ultrasound wave and delivering a second focused ultrasound wave delivered by the steered beam ultrasound transmitter. The first delivered ultrasound wave having a first carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response of the ultrasound conducting layer. The second delivered ultrasound wave having a second carrier frequency and amplitude sufficient to induce a non linear vibrational response of the ultrasound conducting layer. The parameters of the first carrier frequency and amplitude and second carrier frequency and amplitude are such that a non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave at the touch location produces a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage. In an embodiment the operational flow includes determining a location of the touch by the human appendage to the display surface in response to the received portion of the scattered detection ultrasound wave.

In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transducer and the ultrasound locator transmitter share at least one component. In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transducer includes a first amplitude patterned ultrasound transducer and the second steered beam ultrasound transducer includes a second amplitude patterned ultrasound transducer. In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a first phased array ultrasound transmitter and the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a second phased array ultrasound transmitter.

In an embodiment the stimulation controller is configured to initiate a delivery of a first focused ultrasound wave and a delivery of the second focused ultrasound wave to the touch location . The delivery is initiated in response to the reception of the first portion .S of the scattered detection ultrasound wave or the reception of the second portion .S of the scattered detection ultrasound wave .

In an embodiment the first wave propagates in a first direction toward the touch location and the second wave propagates in a second direction toward the touch location . The second direction is not co aligned with the first direction. In an embodiment the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter is physically spaced apart from the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the first focused ultrasound wave includes a first focused surface acoustic wave. In an embodiment the second focused ultrasound wave includes a second focused surface acoustic wave.

In an embodiment the system includes the location circuit configured to determine the touch location in response the first received portion .S of the scattered detection ultrasound wave or the second received portion .S of the scattered detection ultrasound wave . In an embodiment the stimulation controller is configured to initiate a delivery of the first focused ultrasound wave and of the second focused ultrasound wave to the determined touch location e.g. by computationally determining the proper excitation of the first steered beam ultrasound transducer and of the first steered beam ultrasound transducer . In an embodiment the system includes the scanning controller configured to initiate the broadcast of the detection ultrasound wave.

In an embodiment the focused ultrasound wave propagates toward the touch location in a first direction the second focused ultrasound wave propagates toward the touch location in a second direction and the second direction is not co aligned with the first direction. In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transducer includes a first steered beam ultrasound transducer array.

In an embodiment the operational flow includes determining the touch location in response the first received portion of the scattered detection ultrasound wave or the second received portion of the scattered detection ultrasound wave.

Returning to the system includes a steered beam ultrasound transmitter configured to deliver a focused down modulated ultrasound wave into a volume of airspace selected from at least two volumes of airspace each respectfully associated with the at least two delineated areas of the surface illustrated as volumes of airspace respectfully associated with delineated areas . The down modulated ultrasound wave having a power density producing a stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by a human appendage present in the selected volume of airspace. The system includes a feedback controller configured to select the volume of airspace in response to a presence of the human appendage within a particular volume of airspace of the at least two volumes of airspace. The feedback controller is also configured to initiate a delivery by the ultrasound transmitter of the down modulated ultrasound wave into the selected volume of airspace.

In an embodiment the ultrasound wave includes a longitudinal wave. In an embodiment the stress pattern includes a pressure pattern. In an embodiment the stress pattern includes an out of plane component or an in plane component.

In an embodiment the system includes a motion tracking device configured to detect a presence of the human appendage within the particular volume of airspace of at least two volumes of airspace. In an embodiment the motion tracking device may include a camera or a probe. In an embodiment the motion tracking device may include the position or motion tracking technology of the Wii Remote of the Wii by Nintendo of America Redmond Wash. In an embodiment the motion tracking device may include the position or motion tracking technology of the Kinect by Microsoft Redmond Wash. In an embodiment the motion tracking device may include the position or motion tracking technology of the Leap Motion Controller by Leap Motion Inc. San Francisco Calif.

In an embodiment the surface includes a display surface. In an embodiment the surface includes a holographically displayed surface. In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a first phased array ultrasound transmitter and the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a second phased array ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a first amplitude patterned ultrasound transmitter and the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter includes a second amplitude patterned ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the elements of the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter are interlaced with the elements of first steered beam ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter is physically spaced apart from the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter is separate from the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter. In an embodiment the first focused ultrasound wave includes a first focused surface acoustic wave. In an embodiment the second focused ultrasound wave includes a second focused surface acoustic wave.

In an embodiment the system further includes the motion tracking device configured to detect a presence of the human appendage within a volume of airspace of the at least two volumes of airspace. In an embodiment the first wave propagates in a first direction toward the selected volume of airspace the second wave propagates in a second direction toward the selected volume of airspace and the second direction is non collinear with respect to the first direction. In an embodiment the non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave within the selected volume of airspace or in the human appendage produces a beat frequency stress pattern directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage. In an embodiment the non linear interaction of the first ultrasound wave and the second ultrasound wave within the selected volume of airspace produces a 2 dimensional or 3 dimensional force or pressure field display directly perceivable or discernible by the human appendage.

In an embodiment the first ultrasound wave is transmitted by a first steered beam ultrasound transmitter configured to deliver the first focused ultrasound wave into the volume of airspace selected from the at least two volumes of airspace. In an embodiment the second ultrasound wave is transmitted by a second steered beam ultrasound transmitter configured to deliver the second focused ultrasound wave into the volume of airspace selected from the at least two volumes of airspace. In an embodiment the second steered beam ultrasound transmitter physically spaced apart from the first steered beam ultrasound transmitter.

In an embodiment the operational flow includes detecting the presence of the human appendage within a particular volume of airspace of at least two volumes of airspace.

All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety or to the extent their subject matter is not otherwise inconsistent herewith.

In some embodiments configured includes at least one of designed set up shaped implemented constructed or adapted for at least one of a particular purpose application or function.

It will be understood that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims are generally intended as open terms. For example the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to. For example the term having should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term has should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of introductory phrases such as at least one or one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a receiver should typically be interpreted to mean at least one receiver the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited it will be recognized that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of at least two chambers or a plurality of chambers without other modifiers typically means at least two chambers .

In those instances where a phrase such as at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C or an item selected from the group consisting of A B and C is used in general such a construction is intended to be disjunctive e.g. any of these phrases would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together and may further include more than one of A B or C such as A A and C together A B B C and Ctogether or Band Btogether . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable or physically interacting components or wirelessly interactable or wirelessly interacting components.

With respect to the appended claims the recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Use of Start End Stop or the like blocks in the block diagrams is not intended to indicate a limitation on the beginning or end of any operations or functions in the diagram. Such flowcharts or diagrams may be incorporated into other flowcharts or diagrams where additional functions are performed before or after the functions shown in the diagrams of this application. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

