---

title: Systems and methods for extension of server management functions
abstract: Systems and methods that may be implemented to provide a plug-in architecture framework to allow extension of server management functionalities in a unified extension firmware interface (“UEFI”) environment using available remote access controller memory space. The disclosed systems and methods may be implemented to provide a hardware and software interface to allow use of a plug-in framework in the embedded system management that may be run under the BIOS firmware and the UEFI environment. The disclosed systems and methods may also be implemented to provide a server management architecture that may be modified and enhanced over time, and/or that may also be employed to extend availability of the server management framework to third parties, as well as to extend support to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) servers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08966026&OS=08966026&RS=08966026
owner: Dell Products LP
number: 08966026
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130521
---
This patent application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 587 001 entitled Systems And Methods For Extension Of Server Management Functions filed Sep. 30 2009. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to information handling systems and more particularly to extension of server management functions in information handling systems.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

Information handling systems are often configured as servers. Such information handling systems are typically provided with server management functions that allow for server updates for firmware BIOS driver upgrades server configuration operating system deployment program for installation of the operating system on the server and diagnostic functions to monitor the health status of the server. Programming for server management functions are typically loaded onto embedded flash memory of a server embedded remote access controller such as an integrated Dell Remote Access Controller iDRAC available from Dell Products L.P. of Round Rock Tex. A graphical user interface GUI may be provided to allow a user to control loading of server management functions as an image from the flash memory device which is embedded in the motherboard of the system.

Extension of server management functions e.g. to change the properties of the server graphic user interface GUI to add support for additional operating systems in the OS deployment or to add support for additional servers original equipment manufacturer OEM servers in a typical conventional server may be attempted but is complicated by the following factors. In a typical server remote access controller flash memory device resources are limited e.g. having an entire storage capacity of 1 gigabyte and the amount of memory that is allocated for system management application is also typically limited e.g. about 20 megabytes . The remote access controller flash memory device is typically managed by the remote access controller sub system and is not open to the host system. System management functions run under a unified extension firmware interface UEFI environment which is provided by the BIOS firmware and the infrastructure functions and library are enclosed. An extended understanding and knowledge of the current server management architecture and design are required due to the complexity of the component interfaces which include remote access controller subsystem BIOS firmware device driver installation etc.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods that may be implemented to provide a plug in architecture framework to allow extension of server management functionalities e.g. Dell unified server configurator USC server management functionalities available from Dell Products L.P. of Round Rock Tex. in a unified extensible firmware interface UEFI environment e.g. by a third party by leveraging available remote access controller core or optional flash memory space. Among other things the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented to provide a hardware and software interface to allow use of a plug in framework in the embedded system management e.g. of a server or other host computer information handling system that may be run under the BIOS firmware and the UEFI environment. The disclosed systems and methods may also be implemented to provide a USC server management architecture that may be modified and enhanced over time and or that may also be employed to extend availability of the USC server management framework to third parties e.g. to make it easy for third parties to customize server management functions to suit their preference and or to host their own service on newly shipped information handling systems as well as to extend support to original equipment manufacturer OEM servers.

In one embodiment the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented with an information handling system configured as a blade server that includes an embedded remote access controller and associated embedded persistent storage to provide server management functions. Examples of server management functions that may be so provided include but are not limited to server updates for firmware and or BIOS upgrades for drivers server configuration changes or modifications programming for deployment of an operating system OS for the OS installation on a server diagnostic function s to monitor the health status of a server etc. In one exemplary embodiment the disclosed systems and methods may be employed to allow third parties to utilize the flash memory resources of the server embedded remote access controller to extend the current or existing system management functions for a server e.g. to allow a third party to change the properties of the server graphic user interface GUI to add support for additional operating systems in the OS deployment or to add support for additional servers original equipment manufacturer OEM servers and devices etc.

In one respect disclosed herein is an information handling system including at least one processing device at least one external input output I O interface coupled to the at least one processing device the external I O interface being configured for coupling to one or more devices that are external to the information handling system a remote access controller coupled to the external I O interface and to the at least one processing device persistent storage coupled to the remote access controller and a server management framework present on the persistent storage the server management framework including one or more server management functions that each include a configuration layer the server management framework being configured to load the server management functions on the at least one processing device of the information handling system. The server management framework may be further configured to access a configuration plug in from one or more external devices across the external I O interface the configuration plug in including a configuration layer. The server management framework may also be configured to extend the configuration layer of the server management framework across the external I O interface to include the configuration layer of the configuration plug in and then load the server management functions on the at least one processing device with the server management functions extended to include the configuration layer of the configuration plug in.

In another respect disclosed herein is a computing system including an information handling system that includes at least one processing device at least one external input output I O interface coupled to the at least one processing device a remote access controller coupled to the external I O interface and to the at least one processing device persistent storage coupled to the remote access controller and a server management framework present on the persistent storage the server management framework including one or more server management functions that each include a configuration layer the server management framework being configured to load the server management functions on the at least one processing device of the information handling system. The computing system may also include one or more external devices coupled to the external I O interface of the information handling system. The server management framework may be further configured to access a configuration plug in from the one or more external devices across the external I O interface the configuration plug in including a configuration layer. The server management framework may also be configured to extend the configuration layer of the server management framework across the external I O interface to include the configuration layer of the configuration plug in and then load the server management functions on the at least one processing device with the server management functions extended to include the configuration layer of the configuration plug in.

In yet another respect disclosed herein is a method of extending server management functions in an information handling system. The method may include providing an information handling system that includes at least one processing device at least one external input output I O interface coupled to the at least one processing device a remote access controller coupled to the external I O interface and to the at least one processing device persistent storage coupled to the remote access controller and a server management framework present on the persistent storage the server management framework including one or more server management functions that each include a configuration layer. The method may also include coupling the external I O interface to one or more devices that are external to the information handling system using the server management framework to load the server management functions on the at least one processing device of the information handling system using the server management framework to access a configuration plug in across the external I O interface from the one or more external devices the configuration plug in including a configuration layer using the server management framework to extend the configuration layer of the server management framework across the external I O interface to include the configuration layer of the configuration plug in and using the server management framework to then load the server management functions on the at least one processing device with the server management functions extended to include the configuration layer of the configuration plug in.

Still referring to remote access controller provides access to a plurality of remote users A C. In this regard remote access controller allows remote users to manage administer use and or access various resources of host system e.g. either native or virtual from a remote location. In the embodiment of remote users A C may have in band or out of band access to system as desired. For example remote users A C may have access through a local area network LAN wide area network WAN dial up modem etc. In one embodiment remote access controller may be an integrated Dell Remote Access Controller iDRAC available from Dell Products L.P. of Round Rock Tex. Further information on such a remote access controller may be found in United States Patent Application Publication Number 2006 0212143 and United States Patent Application Publication Number 2006 0190532 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. However it will be understood that other configuration of remote access controllers may be suitably employed in other embodiments.

As further shown remote access controller is coupled to remote access controller persistent storage e.g. embedded and partitioned flash memory Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM etc. upon which one or more server management applications forming part of a USC framework may be stored in addition to other functions e.g. BIOS and unified extensible firmware interface UEFI of . In the embodiment of persistent storage is managed by remote access controller and is used utilized for server management. In one exemplary embodiment persistent storage may be embedded in the system motherboard and may be for example about 1 GB in size.

Still referring to the exemplary embodiment of GUI components of configuration plug in include GUI extensible mark up language XML component that contains desired plug in GUI configuration instruction information. OS deployment components of configuration plug in include OS deployment driver pack that contains desired OS drivers and OS deployment XML that contains desired OS deployment instruction information. OS deployment XML may be used to automatically deploy the OS based on for example third party customization. Platform update functions of configuration plug in module include device update protocols that contain device update information and update wrappers for launching the update protocols.

As shown server management functions of USC framework of are designed and provided in a block structure for the illustrated exemplary embodiment. In this regard each existing server management function of the USC framework shares the same infrastructure layer as well as the UEFI infrastructure the iDRAC and the BIOS interfaces. Further information on UEFI infrastructure and BIOS interfaces may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 228 499 filed Aug. 13 2008 and entitled Methods and Systems for Providing Manufacturing Mode Detection and Functionality in a UEFI BIOS by Harmer which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In this embodiment existing server management functions include existing operating system deployment OSD function which itself includes existing operating system deployment XML profile and existing operating system driver pack e.g. as a zip file in one of the partitions of embedded remote access controller persistent storage e.g. flash memory device that contains all the needed system drivers for OS installation deployment in addition to operating system backend processing module that functions to install an operation system. Other examples of server management functions that may be a part of USC framework include but are not limited to patches configuration application deployment etc.

Existing server management functions of this embodiment also include existing platform update function which itself includes existing update wrappers and existing device update protocols in addition to task registration which functions to sequence the update task system service information block SSIB which is a file containing tasks that are used for registration of tasks of USC framework system service manager SSM which is a function that is used for processing the tasks contained in SSIB in a first in first out manner and update backend processing module that functions to flash the firmware with update payload. Existing GUI XML profile and existing GUI processing module together comprise a GUI function for generating a GUI menu for controlling server management functionalities.

Also shown in are intelligent platform management interface IPMI application programming interface API that functions as communication between processes running in different environments and context UEFI Extensible Firmware Interface development kit EDK that functions to provide low level utilities in the UEFI environment UEFI shell that functions to encapsulate the UEFI environment and life cycle log LCL that is a log file residing in iDRAC serial peripheral interface SPI that is used for recording of changes in system configuration.

In the practice of the disclosed systems and methods additional functions may be easily enabled or disabled from the GUI menu via the GUI XML profile . shows an example of the GUI XML profile and how the function may be enabled or disabled via the XML tags. shows an example of the operating system deployment XML profile and how an additional operating system may be added or deleted from the support operating system menu via a XML configuration profile. In this regard each system management block function is designed in layers with the configuration layer e.g. GUI profile function block blocks of operating system deployment function and blocks and of platform update function manages and provides the ability to extend its respective function. To extend the function a third party or other party need only provide the configuration layer and write the plug in registration module to comply with the rules that are specified by the system management USC framework . Advantageously an extensive understanding of the infrastructure of USC framework is not required and the configuration plug in may be provided from the local USB key or any external media.

When booting information handling system e.g. server of a user may press a hotkey e.g. F10 or enter a command via other suitable method to cause the plug in registration service component to search for plug in registration of configuration plug in . Once found plug in registration service component will load the configuration plug in into a temporary non volatile storage e.g. RAMDisk segment of system memory . Plug in registration service component will then link and extend the configuration layer of USC framework e.g. GUI XML profile function block blocks of operating system deployment function and blocks and of platform update function to the new configuration layer of configuration plug in e.g. GUI XML block OS deployment driver pack OS deployment XML device update protocols and update wrappers . USC framework then continues to load the rest of the programs into information handling system e.g. into memory processor cache memory etc. for processor but now with the functions and properties of GUI profile function block extended with new configuration plug in layer block the functions and properties of operating system deployment function extended with the new configuration plug in layer blocks and the functions and properties of platform update function extended with the new configuration plug in layer blocks and .

Advantageously the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented in one embodiment such that USC server management functions e.g. such as GUI functions and OS deployment function and platform update function may be easily enhanced via the configuration layer rather than the core infrastructure thus providing increased stability for an information handling system . Moreover support of the USC system management may be easily extended to OEM servers and the USC functions may be easily customized. The disclosed systems and methods may also be implemented to allow a displayed logo to be added or removed and or the GUI properties may be changed for example to suit third party requirements. In one embodiment third parties may be provided with the ability to customize the USC functions according to their preferences. In this regard the customization process may be performed easily by extending the configuration layer and does not require an extensive understanding of the USC system management design or architecture.

For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control entertainment or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer a PDA a consumer electronic device a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include memory one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more storage devices one or more communications ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

While the invention may be adaptable to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example and described herein. However it should be understood that the invention is not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the invention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Moreover the different aspects of the disclosed systems and methods may be utilized in various combinations and or independently. Thus the invention is not limited to only those combinations shown herein but rather may include other combinations.

