---

title: System and method for managing driver sensory communication devices in a transportation vehicle
abstract: A situation communication mirror is adapted for mounting to a transportation vehicle, such as a heavy duty tractor-trailer combination. The situation communication mirror comprises a rearward facing reflective member having at least three integrally-formed and arcuately distinct reflective surface areas. The first reflective surface area has a relatively slight curvature defining a relatively focused driver field of view. The second and third reflective surface areas each have an increased curvature as compared to the first surface area, and respectively define wider driver fields of view.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09227568&OS=09227568&RS=09227568
owner: Spirited Eagle Enterprises LLC
number: 09227568
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130219
---
This disclosure relates broadly and generally to a system and method for enhancing driver situational awareness in a transportation vehicle. Other embodiments and implementations of the present disclosure may be applicable in completing visual systems and parts inspections cargo inspections trailer inspections vehicle operation monitoring security surveillance driver performance monitoring safety checks and others all done by the driver from within the cab or by an administrator from a remote location. The present example of the invention discussed further herein involves technology and methodology for enhancing driver situational awareness by increasing viewing areas within and surrounding the vehicle. The ability to see within and around the vehicle is of fundamental importance for any driver. This is particularly evident when lane changing merging turning and cornering backing up starting forward movement passing beneath overhead structures and other such maneuvers.

Vision or blind spot problems in the heavy duty trucking industry has resulted in action taken by the Technology and Maintenance Council TMC of the American Trucking Association ATA . The TMC recently issued a position paper demanding that the industry improve the ability of drivers to see and specified a minimum set of vision targets deemed essential. The Society of Automotive Engineers SAE Truck and Bus Council also established a Vision Task Force in the Human Factors Committee. While This Task Force upgraded SAE Standard J1750 with additional methodology to measure vision it did not include the acceptance criteria requested by TMC. A Vision Task Force was therefore established in TMC to define the minimum viewable targets required to measure improved vision in heavy trucks. TMC issued Recommended Practice RP 428 entitled Guidelines for Vision Devices after conducting a survey among drivers to determine the priority ranking of vision targets during specific driving maneuvers. The vision targets specified in RP 428 are illustrated in FIG. at respective solid circular markers M .

In various exemplary embodiments discussed herein the present disclosure provides situation assessment tools applicable for allowing drivers to see or sense a broader area around and adjacent the vehicle including the targets specified in RP 428. As described further herein the disclosure utilizes various computer and communications technologies electronics sensors controllers and data buses to enhance driver situational awareness and situational understanding.

In the heavy duty trucking industry the Society of Automotive Engineers SAE has developed standards for the physical layer and data elements to be used for an onboard network. The SAE sought to establish this standard across all brands of heavy duty trucks the original standard being recognized by two designators J1708 the physical layer i.e. twisted pair wiring and J1587 the message layer or data format. This standard was put into production and included a specific diagnostic connector commonly referred to as the 6 pin Deutsch connector to be used on all heavy duty vehicles. This connector provided access to the vehicle bus along with battery power and ground connections with an option for a connection to a proprietary network that may be available on the vehicle.

One more recent standard SAE J1939 customized the requirements for the physical connections and data elements to meet the requirements of the heavy duty vehicle environment. With J1939 data rates were now up to 250 Kbits second and more control modules were supported in the network. J1939 also has its own unique connector still called a Deutsch plug but changed to 9 pins. The connector still has power ground and J1708 connections in addition to the new J1939 wires. It also added the option for a second CAN connection for proprietary data networks. As new requirements are added for additional vehicle safety features such as body control modules stability control and other third party safety system components J1939 has continued to evolve and has been upgraded to a 500 Kbits second network based on a new standard J1939 14. Other exemplary interface standards include SAE J1850 SAE J1455 SAE J2497 PLC RS232 OBD 2 CAN1 and CAN2.

Various exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described below. Use of the term exemplary means illustrative or by way of example only and any reference herein to the invention is not intended to restrict or limit the invention to exact features or steps of any one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed in the present specification. References to exemplary embodiment one embodiment an embodiment various embodiments and the like may indicate that the embodiment s of the invention so described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but not every embodiment necessarily includes the particular feature structure or characteristic. Further repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment or in an exemplary embodiment do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment although they may.

It is also noted that terms like preferably commonly and typically are not utilized herein to limit the scope of the claimed invention or to imply that certain features are critical essential or even important to the structure or function of the claimed invention. Rather these terms are merely intended to highlight alternative or additional features that may or may not be utilized in a particular embodiment of the present invention.

In one exemplary embodiment the present disclosure comprises a situation communication mirror SCM adapted for mounting to a transportation vehicle such as a heavy duty tractor trailer combination. The situation communication mirror comprises a rearward facing reflective member having at least three integrally formed and arcuately distinct reflective surface areas. The first reflective surface area has a relatively slight curvature defining a relatively focused but broad driver field of view. The term relatively focused refers to a view having less visual distortion as provided by a larger radius i.e. less curved reflective surface area. The second and third reflective surface areas each have an increased curvature as compared to the first surface area and respectively define wide angle fields of view. The term wider FOV refers to a view with potentially increased visual distortion resulting from a smaller radius i.e. more curved reflective surface area. Alternatively a comparable wide FOV may be achieved utilizing mirror technology described in prior U.S. Pat. No. 8 180 606 entitled Wide Angle Substantially Non distorting Mirror . The complete disclosure of this prior patent is incorporated by reference herein.

As used herein the term rearward facing refers to an object e.g. video camera mirror other situation communication tool oriented pointed or situated to capture or reflect a field of view which is generally to the rear of or behind the driver or other user. The term forward facing is the opposite of rearward facing and refers to an object oriented pointed or situated to capture or reflect a field of view which is generally to the front of the driver or other user.

According to another exemplary embodiment the first reflective surface area is greater in dimension than the second and third reflective surface areas.

According to another exemplary embodiment the first reflective surface area extends substantially from a top edge of the reflective member towards a bottom edge of the reflective member.

According to another exemplary embodiment the first reflective surface area further extends substantially from an inside edge of the reflective member towards an outside edge of the reflective member.

According to another exemplary embodiment the first reflective surface area has a curvature radius in the range of 500 to 3000 mm.

According to another exemplary embodiment the second reflective surface area comprises a longitudinal outside margin of the reflective member and extends substantially from a top edge of the reflective member towards a bottom edge of the reflective member.

According to another exemplary embodiment the second reflective surface area has a curvature radius in the range of 300 to 600 mm.

According to another exemplary embodiment the third reflective surface area comprises a longitudinal bottom margin of the reflective member and extends substantially from an inside edge of the reflective member towards an outside edge of the reflective member.

According to another exemplary embodiment the third reflective surface area has a curvature radius in the range of 200 400.

According to another exemplary embodiment the situation communication mirror is mounted to a body of the vehicle adjacent at least one of the driver and passenger side doors.

According to another exemplary embodiment the situation communication mirror is mounted to a body of the vehicle adjacent at least one of the driver and passenger side fenders on opposite sides of the engine hood and in front of the vehicle cab.

In another exemplary embodiment the present disclosure comprises a system and method for enhancing situational awareness of a vehicle driver passenger or remote user outside of the vehicle. The term situational awareness refers broadly herein to a knowledge understanding or consciousness of the state or condition of the environment events or circumstances within or around the transportation vehicle. The disclosure includes strategically locating a plurality of digital or analog sensory or situation communication devices on the vehicle. The sensory communication devices are operatively connected e.g. wireless or hardwired to a user network via an onboard access point. At least one of the sensory communication devices is activated upon a triggering event. A vehicle data signal comprising realtime vehicle information is transmitted from the activated sensory communication device to the user network. Using a computing device a user accesses the network to receive the realtime vehicle information transmitted by the activated sensory communication device. In one exemplary embodiment the sensory communication devices reside in a normal sleep mode and awaken only upon occurrence of the predetermined triggering event. The triggering event may awaken only certain targeted or user specified sensory communication devices.

The sensory communication devices e.g. video cameras and or reflective surfaces may be strategically located within and about interior and exterior portions of the vehicle including for example inside and outside the vehicle trailer the front grille front and rear fenders mirror housings top of front windshield inside vehicle cab top of roof outside vehicle cab and other desired points. Infrared lighting may also be used in dark conditions.

According to another exemplary embodiment the triggering event comprises at least one of a group consisting of activating a vehicle turn signal activating headlights turning a steering wheel of the vehicle vehicle braking vehicle acceleration vehicle speed airbag deployment and vehicle collision.

According to another exemplary embodiment the triggering event comprises moving the vehicle transmission to a predetermined gear e.g. reverse park neutral etc. .

According to another exemplary embodiment the triggering event comprises the presence and detection of motion or obstacles in or around the vehicle. In this embodiment the vehicle may include strategically located motion and distance sensors.

According to another exemplary embodiment at least one of the sensory communication devices comprises a sensory or situation communication mirror or SCM .

According to another exemplary embodiment at least one of the sensory communication devices comprises a video camera.

According to another exemplary embodiment at least one of the sensory communication devices comprises a microphone for transmitting realtime audible sound.

According to another exemplary embodiment at least one of the sensory communication devices comprises a CCTV.

According to another exemplary embodiment at least one of the sensory communication devices comprises an IP based digital still camera.

According to another exemplary embodiment the computing device comprises a Tablet computer with an integrated display screen and touchscreen interface.

According to another exemplary embodiment connecting the sensory communication devices comprises enrolling the sensory communication devices on the user network in a secured online user account.

According to another exemplary embodiment the disclosure includes logging in to the user account via security password.

According to another exemplary embodiment the disclosure comprises recording and storing the realtime vehicle information transmitted by the activated sensory communication device using an onboard network attached digital video recorder.

According to another exemplary embodiment the disclosure comprises recording and storing the realtime vehicle information transmitted by the activated sensory communication device using internal flash memory.

According to another exemplary embodiment the disclosure comprises recording and storing the realtime vehicle information transmitted by the activated sensory communication device to a remote server as in the case of IP cameras .

According to another exemplary embodiment the activated sensory communication device is automatically selected without user intervention.

According to another exemplary embodiment the disclosure comprises using Video Content Analysis VCA for automatically analyzing the realtime vehicle information transmitted by the activated sensory communication device.

According to another exemplary embodiment the disclosure comprises combining a plurality realtime vehicle data signal feeds of respective user networks in a single networked multi user system.

According to another exemplary embodiment the activated sensory communication device utilizes facial recognition technology for automatically verifying a driver of the transportation vehicle.

According to another exemplary embodiment the computing device comprises application software for enabling a dashboard centric interface with tab icons for manually activating respective sensory communication devices on the user network such that when the user selects a tab icon the realtime vehicle information transmitted by the activated sensory communication device is output to the user.

According to another exemplary embodiment the vehicle data signal accessed on the user network is encrypted using a cryptographic protocol.

According to another exemplary embodiment the transportation vehicle comprises one selected from a group consisting of heavy duty tractors trailers for heavy duty tractors boat and other trailers passenger vehicles golf carts all terrain vehicles recreational vehicles military vehicles trains buses aircraft and watercraft.

In another exemplary embodiment the disclosure comprises a computer implemented system which utilizes a plurality of strategically located sensory communication devices for enhancing situational awareness in a transportation vehicle.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the disclosure utilizes a plurality of strategically located sensory communication devices and comprises a computer program product including program instructions tangibly stored on a computer readable medium and operable to cause a computing device to interface with the communication devices and perform a method for enhancing situational awareness in a transportation vehicle.

In still another exemplary embodiment the disclosure utilizes a plurality of strategically located sensory communication devices and comprises a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions executable by processing logic of a computing device including one or more instructions that when executed by the processing logic cause the processing logic to interface with the communication devices and perform a method for enhancing situational awareness in a transportation vehicle.

In still another exemplary embodiment the disclosure comprises an article of manufacture comprising a non transitory computer readable storage medium and executable program instructions embodied in the storage medium that when executed by processing logic of a computing device causes the processing logic to perform a method for enhancing situational awareness in a transportation vehicle.

The exemplary mobile computing device utilized by drivers in the present disclosure may implement a computer program product e.g. mobile app comprising program instructions tangibly stored on a storage medium and operable to cause a computing device to perform a method for enhancing situational awareness and situational understanding in a transportation vehicle. The present disclosure further comprises a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions executable by processing logic of a computing device including one or more instructions that when executed by the processing logic cause the processing logic to perform a method for enhancing situational awareness and situational understanding in a transportation vehicle. In yet another exemplary embodiment the present disclosure comprises an article of manufacture including a computer readable storage medium and executable program instructions embodied in the storage medium that when executed by processing logic of a computing device causes the processing logic to perform a method for enhancing situational awareness and situational understanding in a transportation vehicle.

The mobile computing device may incorporate or comprise any general or specific purpose machine with processing logic capable of manipulating data according to a set of program instructions. In one embodiment the computing device comprises a mobile Tablet computer such as the iPAD 4 by Apple Inc using iOS 6.0. Exemplary product specifications for the iPAD 4 are copied below.

The exemplary Tablet includes card slots for removable flash and SIM cards and may have up to 128 GB of non volatile internal memory. One or more of the flash and SIM cards and internal memory may comprise computer readable storage media containing program instructions applicable for effecting the present method for enhancing situational awareness in a transportation vehicle described further below. As generally known and understood in the art the flash card is an electronic flash memory data storage device used for storing digital information. The card is small re recordable and able to retain data without power. For example Secure Digital SD is a non volatile memory card format developed by the SD Card Association for use in portable devices. SD has an official maximum capacity of 2 GB though some are available up to 8 GB or more.

The SIM card contains an integrated circuit that securely stores the service subscriber key IMSI used to identify a subscriber on mobile devices including the exemplary Tablet. SIM hardware typically consists of a microprocessor ROM persistent non volatile EEPROM or flash memory volatile RAM and a serial I O interface SIM software typically consists of an operating system file system and application programs. The SIM may incorporate the use of a SIM Toolkit STK which is an application programming interface API for securely loading applications e.g. applets or data to the SIM for storage in the SIM and execution by the mobile device. The STK allows a mobile operator such as a wireless carrier to create provision services by loading them into the SIM without changing other elements of the mobile device. One convenient way for loading applications to the SIM is over the air OTA via the Short Message Service SMS protocol.

Secure data or application storage in a memory card or other device may be provided by a Secure Element SE . The SE can be embedded in the logic circuitry of the Tablet or other mobile device can be installed in a SIM or can be incorporated in a removable SD card secure digital memory card among other possible implementations. Depending on the type of Secure Element SE that hosts an applet the features implemented by the applet may differ. Although an SE is typically Java Card compliant regardless of its form factor and usage it may implement features or functions included in the operating system and or in libraries that are specific to that type of SE. For example a UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card may implement features that are used for network communications such as text messaging and STK whereas in certain embedded SE devices these features may not be implemented.

Additionally to identify a user s Tablet or other mobile device a unique serial number called International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI may be assigned to the device. As known by persons skilled in the art IMEI is standardized by ETSI and 3GPP and mobile devices which do not follow these standards may not have an IMEI. The IMEI number is used by the network to identify valid mobile devices. IMEI identifies the device not the user the user is identified by an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI by a 15 digit number and includes information about the source of the mobile device the model and serial number.

Other features of the exemplary Tablet may include front facing and rearm facing cameras Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound video mirroring and video out support built in speaker and microphone built in 25 watt hour rechargeable lithium polymer battery and sensors including three axis gyro accelerometer and ambient light sensor. The audio playback of the fourth generation iPad has a frequency response of 20 Hz to 20 000 Hz

The exemplary Tablet may also combine A GPS and other location services including Wi Fi Positioning System and cell site triangulation or hybrid positioning system. Mobile device tracking tracks the current position of a mobile device even when it is moving. To locate the device it must emit at least the roaming signal to contact the next nearby antenna tower but the process does not require an active call. GSM localisation is then done by multilateration based on the signal strength to nearby antenna masts. Mobile positioning which includes location based service that discloses the actual coordinates of a mobile device bearer is a technology used by telecommunication companies to approximate where a mobile device and thereby also its user bearer temporarily resides.

The exemplary Tablet may incorporate a capacitive touchscreen. As generally know and understood in the art capacitive touchscreens tend to be more accurate and responsive than resistive screens. Because they require a conductive material such as a finger tip for input they are not common among stylus using Tablet PCs but are more prominent on the smaller scale Tablet computer devices for ease of use which generally do not use a stylus and need multi touch capabilities. In alternative embodiments the Tablet may comprise a resistive touchscreen. Resistive touchscreens are passive and can respond to any kind of pressure on the screen. They allow a high level of precision which may be needed when the touch screen tries to emulate a mouse for precision pointing which in Tablet personal computers is common . Because of the high resolution of detection a stylus or fingernail is often used for resistive screens. The exemplary touchscreen technology may also include palm recognition multi touch capabilities and pressure sensitive films.

Referring to other software and hardware features of the exemplary mobile Tablet include telematics ICT cellular or satellite communication wireless connectivity to remote cameras GPS heater pad wireless speakers voice activation and two way voice data communication with corporate office . In an alternative embodiment the present disclosure employs a cab integrated computing device e.g. carputer illustrated in comprising one or more of the above hardware and software features including wireless connectivity to video cameras cell or satellite communication two way voice data communication with corporate office and further including data bus connections SAE J1939 and J1455 RS 232 and powerline carrier PLC 21A 21D respectively right turn input left turn input head lamp input vehicle door inputs 12 24 volt DC ND inputs and USB ports . In this embodiment the driver s Tablet computer may be parked via data bus and other subsystem connections inside the cab of the vehicle.

The present invention is described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which one or more exemplary embodiments of the invention are shown. Like numbers used herein refer to like elements throughout. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be operative enabling and complete. Accordingly the particular arrangements disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the scope of the invention which is to be given the full breadth of the appended claims and any and all equivalents thereof. Moreover many embodiments such as adaptations variations modifications and equivalent arrangements will be implicitly disclosed by the embodiments described herein and fall within the scope of the present invention.

Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Unless otherwise expressly defined herein such terms are intended to be given their broad ordinary and customary meaning not inconsistent with that applicable in the relevant industry and without restriction to any specific embodiment hereinafter described. As used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one single or similar language is used. When used herein to join a list of items the term or denotes at least one of the items but does not exclude a plurality of items of the list.

For exemplary methods or processes of the invention the sequence and or arrangement of steps described herein are illustrative and not restrictive. Accordingly it should be understood that although steps of various processes or methods may be shown and described as being in a sequence or temporal arrangement the steps of any such processes or methods are not limited to being carried out in any particular sequence or arrangement absent an indication otherwise. Indeed the steps in such processes or methods generally may be carried out in various different sequences and arrangements while still falling within the scope of the present invention.

Additionally any references to advantages benefits unexpected results or operability of the present invention are not intended as an affirmation that the invention has been previously reduced to practice or that any testing has been performed. Likewise unless stated otherwise use of verbs in the past tense present perfect or preterit is not intended to indicate or imply that the invention has been previously reduced to practice or that any testing has been performed.

In one exemplary implementation the present disclosure utilizes various advancements in data communications computers electronics and video technologies to enhance driver situational awareness i.e. his her perception of environmental elements with respect to time and or space the comprehension of their meaning and the projection of their status after some variable such as a predetermined event or change in time. Situational awareness SA involves being aware of what is happening in the vicinity in order to understand how information events and one s own actions will impact goals and objectives both immediately and in the near future. Lacking or inadequate situational awareness has been identified as one of the primary factors in accidents attributed to human error. Situational awareness is especially important in industries where the information flow can be quite high and poor decisions may lead to serious consequences. In short SA involves knowing what is going on around you so you can figure out what to do next. 

Being aware of what is happening around you and understanding what the information means to you now and in the future is the basis for situational awareness SA . In the context of the present disclosure situational awareness may be viewed as a state of knowledge and situational assessment as the processes or tools used to achieve that knowledge. Situational understanding is the product of applying analysis and judgement to the situational awareness. Fleet drivers in the heavy duty trucking industry are highly dependent on situational awareness. By uncovering how drivers think and operate SA oriented tools vehicle design and training may help reduce human errors and minimize liability.

The exemplary heavy duty truck comprises a number electronic subsystems including ABS engine controller and others connected through the vehicle s data bus e.g. SAE J1939 SAE J1850 SAE J1708 OBD 2 and CAN to an integrated onboard computing device or Recorder comprising a non transitory data storage medium transceiver and other electronics. The Recorder is further connected via data bus to an onboard driver log box EBOR with transceiver other tractor trailer subsystems strategically arranged interior and exterior video cameras Sensory Communication Devices or SCDs noise cancellation sensors and integrated exterior combination mirror cameras Sensory Communication Mirrors or SCMs . The Sensory Communication Mirrors described further below may comprise one or more integrated video cameras microphones and other electronics and sensors operatively connected via built in Wi Fi Bluetooth or other wireless standard to a driver s Tablet computer . As previously described above the exemplary Tablet may include a capacitive touchscreen display interface processor internal flash memory and more. The Tablet may also comprise suitable application software for enabling a dashboard centric interface with touchscreen tab icons. One commercially available Tablet is the iPad 4 by Apple.

Time stamped vehicle data is captured and stored by the integrated Recorder at predetermined intervals e.g. every 1 to 30 mins . Examples of vehicle data include travel speed engine RPM engine temperature tire pressure ABS status condition transmission data vehicle location via GPS and event actuated video and audio clips. In the event of an accident or collision the vehicle data stored by the Recorder can be analyzed to help determine evaluate the driver s situational awareness and understanding and the relative effectiveness of various situational assessment tools e.g. the integrated mirror cameras and strategically arranged video cameras under the given circumstances. The onboard driver log EBOR data is also stored by the Recorder and can be transmitted periodically or on demand back to a home office through cellular or satellite communications.

Examples of vehicle data communications technologies and applications in the heavy duty trucking industry are described in prior U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 276 996 8 232 871 7 967 396 7 817 019. Prior U.S. Pat. No. 8 032 277 describes a system and method for driver activity and vehicle operation logging and reporting. The collective disclosures of all of these prior publications are incorporated by reference herein.

Referring to B and the exemplary sensory communication devices described herein may include sensory or situation communication mirrors SCM s . The exemplary driver side and passenger side SCMs function to increase the driver s rearward and forward facing view ranges as demonstrated in respectively. In the exemplary embodiment the SCMs are adjustably mounted to the vehicle body on both driver and passenger sides of the cab and comprise respective reflective members surfaces formed by polished metal or glass. Each SCM comprises a robust protective housing incorporating forward and rearward facing video cameras F and R microphones speakers electronic control unit ECU electric motors encoders X and Y wash and dry solenoids road and ambient temperature sensors heating element transceivers and other electronics not shown . The encoders or transducers optical or magnetic sense the position and orientation of the SCM for use as a stored reference for the particular driver as discussed further below. The encoders may be rotary or linear and either absolute or incremental. Other electronics may include a compressor for encoding data e.g. audio video images into a smaller form an audio encoder capable of capturing compressing and converting audio a video encoder capable of capturing compressing and converting audio video and a multiplexer capable of combining multiple inputs into one output. The SCM housing may further incorporate turn signal step and marker lamps and analog to digital ND ports and digital input output I O ports not shown .

The exemplary rearward and forward facing video cameras may comprise wireless centralized or decentralized IP cameras with 2 way audio wireless or hardwired CCTV video cameras digital still cameras and the like adapted for capturing audio video and imagery data in and around the vehicle. The video cameras may be web enabled and may comprise transceivers and flash memory for software upgrades troubleshooting and the like. Each of the video cameras may be operatively aligned or paired with the vehicle data bus and may be synched as discussed further below with the driver s mobile computing device e.g. Tablet computer to display live video on the Tablet s display screen. Although the discussion below refers to the driver s Tablet computer or simply Tablet it is understood that the inventions concepts and features of the present disclosure maybe applicable to or enabled by any suitable computing device including for example smartphones netbook computers laptop computers ultra mobile PCs PDAs Internet tablets PDA with web browser and the like. Additionally the SCM s may incorporate other situation assessment tools including for example closed circuit digital photography CCDP and other IP based digital still cameras.

Wireless data connections used by the SCDs including SCMs vehicle and driver s Tablet may comprise one or more of cellular Wi Fi Bluetooth or satellite technologies or a combination of networks from multiple cellular networks or a mix of cellular Wi Fi and satellite. When using a mix of networks the present disclosure may comprise a mobile virtual private network mobile VPN to handle security concerns to perform network logins and to maintain application connections to prevent crashes or data loss during network transitions or coverage loss. Cellular data service uses technologies such as GSM CDMA or GPRS and 3G and 4G networks such as W CDMA EDGE or CDMA2000. These networks are usually available within range of commercial cell towers. Wi Fi connections may be either on a private business network or accessed through an access point or hotspot and have a typical range of from 100 feet up to 1000 feet. Satellite Internet access covers areas where cellular and Wi Fi are not available and may be set up anywhere the driver has a line of sight to the satellite s location.

The SCM reflective member e.g. mirror may be adjustably mounted within the exterior housing and operatively controlled by the ECU encoders and DC motors drive means to vary its orientation as desired by the driver. In one exemplary implementation a position sensor produces a signal indicating an actual orientation of the reflective member. The ECU may comprise means for storing a value indicating a pre selected orientation for the reflective member and means for comparing this value with the signal from the position sensor to produce a control signal for the drive means. The DC motors vary the orientation of the reflective member about horizontal and vertical axis respectively. Each of the motors may be coupled to drive respective potentiometers arranged to provide an analogue voltage indicating the orientation of the reflective member about the corresponding axis. The two potentiometers are connected to respective analogue inputs of the ECU. The exemplary ECU may further comprise first and second power outputs which can supply energizing voltages of either polarity to the DC motors to cause rotation in either direction together with a single polarity output which may be connected to the heat element for demisting and or defrosting the reflective member. The driver may store in his computer Table and or ECU any number of desired pre selected orientations for the reflective member of each SCM. One example of an adjustable mirror assembly for a motor vehicle is described in prior U.S. Pat. No. 4 871 953. The complete disclosure of this patent is incorporated by reference herein.

In addition to the above each SCM comprises one or more wash and dry nozzles operatively connected to respective flexible lines e.g. rubber tubes hoses and channels running from the SCMs to the engine compartment of the vehicle and adapted for cleaning and drying the reflective members. The wash nozzle at each SCM is fluidly coupled to a washer reservoir with an attached electrical washer pump. The washer pump is activated by the driver or other user within or outside the vehicle from the Tablet computer. When activated as discussed further below the windshield washer pump draws stored wash fluid from the reservoir into the pump pressurizes the fluid and injects it through the lines to the washer nozzle at the selected SCM. A solenoid valve in the washer fluid line controls where the washer fluid is delivered either the driver side SCM or the passenger side SCM. The dry nozzles connect in a similar manner through flexible lines to a blower fan or other source located in the engine compartment. Using the driver s Tablet computer the user touches one of the two onscreen SCMs icons thereby commanding the selected solenoid valve to open for a predetermined time e.g. 10 secs. . The blower fan directs heated or ambient air through the flexible line and opened valve to the selected dry nozzle pointed toward the reflective member of the SCM.

In the present context the electronic control unit ECU refers broadly to any embedded system e.g. microprocessor or data processor that controls one or more of the electrical systems or subsystems of the SCM . As illustrated in the exemplary ECU connects to the vehicle data bus and to the driver s Tablet computer or other onboard or remote computing device via Wi Fi Bluetooth Wave or related wireless standards. The exemplary ECU comprises inputs for 12 24 volts ground heat step lamp marker lamp left turn head lamp right turn and other electronics including left and right mirror controls and surface wash and dry controls . In an alternative embodiment shown in the ECU is cab integrated and connects to each of the SCMs via the data bus and to the driver s Tablet computer or other integrated onboard or remote computing device by Wi Fi Bluetooth Wave or the like. In either case ECU functions include controlling orientation of the reflective members e.g. in out up down and operation of the wash and dry systems lamp activation and others.

In alternative embodiments shown in a permanent dedicated control panel is integrated into the dash of the vehicle and comprises software enabling alternative touchscreen interfaces with icons designed to control various features and functionality of the SCMs . Components and features of the exemplary SCMs are described above. The control panel may operatively connect to the SCMs via CAN2 data bus or other interface standard and to the to the vehicle data bus via CAN1 or other interface standard . The data bus connection may communicate transmission data such as when the vehicle is in reverse gear thereby signally the control panel and ECU to move the SCMs into a pre programmed backup memory orientation . The exemplary control panel may also comprise ND ports I O ports and an optional SIM card . The exemplary SIM card contains a microprocessor integrated circuit ROM persistent nonvolatile EEPROM or flash memory volatile RAM and a serial I O interface. SIM software may consist of an operating system file system and application programs.

The exemplary user interface may further include touchscreen icons for lefthand and righthand mirror adjustment mirror wash and mirror heat icons first and second mirror memory icons memory backup position icon and mirror parking unparking icon . The mirror memory icons comprise respective LEDs which may glow to indicate the particular stored orientation of the SCM reflective member e.g. position or position . Likewise the mirror parking unparking icon may have an LED which glows when the SCMs are parked or folded inwardly . The panel may also comprise an ambient temperature display . The mirror wash dry and heat functions operate in a conventional manner discussed above. The wash function may utilize the existing vehicle wash fluid reservoir such that when the driver manually actuates the hand control for washing the front windshield the SCD reflective surfaces are also washed. Alternatively the SCM wash may utilizes one or more separate wash fluid reservoirs with respective attached pumps and fluid lines.

A second example of the present disclosure employing an integrated control panel with touchscreen interface is shown in . In this embodiment the video display and touchscreen control panel are integrated with the dash of the vehicle. The integrated control panel comprises touchscreen control icons which allow the driver to adjust the reflective members of each SCM . The control panel includes icons for washing drying and heating the reflective members and activating anti glare auto dimming feature. The control panel may also comprise override icons for the video cameras should the driver wish to view a specific area full screen e.g. rear bogie wheels when making a right turn.

A third example of the present disclosure employing an integrated control panel with touchscreen interface is shown in . The video display and touchscreen control panel are likewise integrated with the dash of the vehicle. The control panel has touchscreen control icons which allow the driver to adjust the reflective members of each SCM . In this embodiment an additional SA option is provided for a right turn signal sensor or switch which automatically inputs a realtime feed from Camera B to the video display allowing the driver to focus his attention on driving around the corner without manually engaging a Camera B icon. The video input would allow the driver to view the curb stop sign pedestrians and bicycle simultaneously in realtime while turning the corner.

A fourth example of the present disclosure employing an integrated control panel with touchscreen interface is shown in . The video display and touchscreen control panel are likewise integrated with the dash of the vehicle. The control panel has touchscreen control icons which allow the driver to adjust the reflective members of each SCM. In this embodiment an additional SA option utilizes steering wheel sensors which input a realtime video feed from either Camera A or Camera B automatically when turning thereby allowing the driver to maintain his focus on the particular driving maneuver.

In a fifth example of the present disclosure the touchscreen control panel and video display are integrated with the dash of the vehicle. In this embodiment input from video cameras A and B can be displayed on the screen side by side as shown in or the driver can override input and show only the feed from one selected camera. The display may also show a rear view of vehicle when in reverse.

As demonstrated in the present disclosure also contemplates driver interaction with the SCMs using voice commands queries and computer generated voice responses. Voice commands may be initiated by the driver and responses received via Tablet microphone either within or around the cab or at any remote location e.g. restaurant filling station hotel room or the like . In the example of the driver uses the Tablet computer to query the ECUs of the SCMs . Using voice control or speech recognition software the ECU can be instructed to manipulate the rearward and or forward facing video cameras R F of a selected SCM in order to scan a desired area e.g. right hand travel lane and to then communicate status back to the driver by computer generated voice response via the Tablet . Each video camera may include pan and zoom capabilities and hardware and software features enabling moving object detection identification and tracking. Information concerning object speed acceleration distance to vehicle and size may be automatically communicated by voice response through the Tablet to the driver. In when maneuvering the vehicle the driver may be warned through voice response via Tablet of any still or moving objects detected by the forward or rearward facing video cameras of the SCMs. For example the driver may initiate a voice command Turning Right via Tablet microphone. This command directs the ECU to automatically activate the SCM video cameras and right turn signal marker and to then voice respond back to the driver via Tablet any necessary warning concerning potential obstacles or hazards. SCM software may also recognize the speed and acceleration deceleration of other vehicles and can voice respond suitable commands to the driver such as slow down or come to a stop . In other examples the driver may use voice commands to unfold the SCMs and heat the reflective surfaces or to receive realtime data concerning vehicle subsystems traffic updates ambient and road temperatures or the like.

In further exemplary embodiments illustrated in the present disclosure contemplates the use of thought controlled computing and brainwaves to initiate the transmission of signals from the driver s Tablet to the SCMs . In these examples a brain computer interface BCI also called a mind machine interface MMI or direct neural interface or a brain machine interface BMI creates a direct communication pathway between the driver s brain and Tablet. The driver s brainwaves can initiate control signals to the ECUs without any physical movement thereby thought controlling operation of the SCMs. Thought controlled computing and brainwaves together with the driver s hand condition and or wheel grip may also be used to sense if or when the driver becomes drowsy.

The Sensory Communication Mirrors SCMs described above may further incorporate respective paired sensors such as microphones accelerometers or other devices capable of detecting sound waves. The sensors of each pair face in opposite directions e.g. one facing inwardly towards the vehicle and one facing outwardly away from the vehicle. The paired sensors cooperate to detect vehicle noise in a first sound waveform and then convert the waveform to electrical signals which are transmitted wirelessly via Wi Fi Bluetooth or the like to wireless speakers located on the driver and passenger sides of the vehicle cab. The ECU of each SCM directs the cab speakers to put the recorded signal exactly out of phase with the actual vehicle noise detected by the SCM sensors such that the second sound waveform from the speaker is just the same and as loud as the vehicle noise first sound waveform but out of phase with the vehicle noise thus canceling the first sound waveform and leaving only the environmental sounds of other nearby vehicles. According to exemplary noise cancellation circuitry an output interrupter circuit causes intermittent sound indicating nearby traffic around or adjacent the vehicle. Signal filters may be used to prevent sound crossover from one cab speaker to the next.

The ECU utilizes software which cancels signal pairs that are common to the paired SCM sensors and to keep newer uncommon signals from the outward facing sensors. This newer uncommon signal is the sound of nearby vehicles or other remote disturbances and is transmitted to the cab speakers differentially according to sensor location e.g. right or left SCM . This enhances the noise cancellation effect and allows the driver to hear the presence and exact direction of nearby traffic in time to evaluate its presence and to avoid any unsafe lane changing or other maneuvering. The ECU could also refresh the model of ambient sound at some predetermined timed interval. Doing so would correct for changes in the ambient sound caused by changes in vehicle speed gear braking rain etc.

Referring to the present disclosure may further incorporate elevated fender mounted SCMs as additional situation assessment tools to enhance driver SA. As shown in and each fender mounted SCM comprises an exterior aerodynamic housing integrated forward facing and rearward facing video cameras F and R IP or CCTV heating element and other electronics and electrical components described above and a rearward facing reflective member. The SCMs are carried on respective vertical mounting posts attached to the fenders on opposite sides of the vehicle hood each mounting post having a fixed or adjustable height e.g. between 2 ft and 4 ft . The SCMs may be connected to the vehicle data bus via SAE J1455 or other suitable interface standard.

As shown in an integrated touchscreen control panel and video display may be located within the cab of the vehicle and may comprise various control icons for heating the reflective surfaces overriding any programmed operation of the video cameras and selectively displaying input from only one or both cameras. The SCMs may connect to the display via data bus and or wirelessly.

Additionally utilizing the right side SCM forward facing video camera and video display the driver has a larger view range of the right front fender area of the vehicle. As demonstrated in when driving straight the driver has an additional view range of the righthand lane or on ramps in front of his vehicle and can see where other vehicles are located in relation to his vehicle. When making a right hand turn the forward facing camera view increases the driver s visibility of the right front fender area allowing the driver to see any obstacles that may be in the way. These and other features of the present disclosure are applicable to a wide range of transportation vehicles including school buses as the bus driver would be capable of seeing if a child walking in front of the bus to cross the road has cleared the area.

Referring to the exemplary system and method of the present disclosure is applicable for enhancing driver situational awareness by strategically located a plurality of SCDs including SCMs on the transportation vehicle. The present disclosure may also be applicable in completing vehicle systems and parts inspections cargo inspections trailer inspections vehicle operation monitoring security surveillance driver performance monitoring safety checks and others all done by the driver from within or outside the cab or by an administrator from a remote location.

As indicated at block in the exemplary method strategically locates a plurality of sensory communication devices SCDs on the vehicle. As previously discussed the SCDs may comprise one or more wireless CCTV video cameras IP cameras netcams webcams microphones and other such devices wireless or hardwired adapted for capturing audio video and imagery data in and around the vehicle. The SCDs may be web enabled and may comprise transceivers and flash memory for software upgrades troubleshooting and the like. Each of the SCDs are operatively aligned or paired at block with the vehicle data bus e.g. power line carrier or PLC and one or more vehicle sensors including for example ABS braking sensors vehicle turn signal sensors headlight sensors windshield wiper sensors safety air bag sensors transmission gear sensors speedometer sensor odometer sensor clock sensor steering wheel position sensor sensors indicating position of tractor in relation to trailer engine and ambient temperature sensors distance and motion sensors battery sensors tire sensors and others. The vehicle sensors may comprise or utilize transceivers transmitters or other means for communicating their state or condition directly to respective paired SCDs or to a central onboard wireless access point WAP in the cab of the vehicle. The onboard access point cooperates with an onboard router and transceiver or modem to connect the SCDs and vehicle sensors to a local area user network as indicated at block . The modem may include bridge and or repeater modes. The connected devices and or sensors may be hardwired to the onboard access point via existing vehicle data bus using technology described in prior U.S. Pat. No. 7 817 019 or may connect wirelessly using Wi Fi Bluetooth Wave or related standards. The vehicle data bus may communicate with the access point onboard recording devices and vehicle subsystems such as ABS braking system engine transmission and tire modules using SAE ISO or CAN standards e.g. SAE J1708 1587 SAE J1939 SAE J1850 SAE J2497 PLC and RS232 . The complete disclosure of the aforementioned prior patent is incorporated by reference herein. The onboard access point may communicate with 30 or more SCDs including SCMs and vehicle sensors located within a radius of more than 100 m. Alternatively the access point may be integrated with one of the onboard SCDs or onboard vehicle sensors.

The user connects to the local area network at block using the Tablet computer or other mobile e.g. web enabled or dedicated computing device. An exemplary dedicated computing device may comprise a display with touchscreen control panel permanently mounted or integrated within the vehicle cab. Examples of other mobile computing devices include a smartphone laptop computer netbook computer cellular telephone PDA and others. In one exemplary implementation the Tablet automatically pairs with the sensory communication devices and vehicle sensors at vehicle start up and automatically connects the driver or other user to the network. Alternatively in web based implementations the user may first be required to login to a designated user account with an authorization code user ID password or the like. In the user network the Tablet computer sensory communication devices and vehicle sensors may communicate with each other via PLC or other data bus and wireless mechanism e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth Wave in a secured closed loop system. Once connected to the user network a software application e.g. mobile app provides a dashboard centric graphical interface on a display screen with tab icons representing each of the connected SCDs and vehicle sensors. The SCDs may also be manually activated as indicated at block . Manually selecting a tab icon for a particular device e.g. video camera as indicated at block provides a realtime view of the environmental area on which the camera is focused. The software application allows the user to drill down from the dashboard into the various network connected devices and sensors to make desired pairings and changes to existing pairings.

Referring to and blocks an automatic triggering event occurs at block when a particular vehicle sensor communicates a predetermined status to the access point WAP either automatically or manually by operation of the driver. For example a triggering event may occur when the driver manually activates the right turn signal within the vehicle cab. This turn signal sensor may be operatively paired with one or more high definition IP based CCTV video cameras mounted outside the vehicle at or around a right side of the front cab and trailer. The exemplary video cameras may have computer controlled technologies and flash memory that allow them to identify track and categorize objects in their field of view. As indicated at block this event causes the designated cameras to automatically active awaken from a normal sleep mode and transmit a data signal comprising realtime streaming video to the onboard access point at block . The access point passes the data to the onboard router transceiver or modem where the realtime video is accessed on the user network and automatically displayed to the driver on the screen of his Tablet at block . The CCTV cameras may incorporate audio surveillance microphones for simultaneously transmitting environmental noises to the driver and may also comprise Digital Video Recorders for recording and storing the captured digital audio video and images as indicated at block . Alternatively the captured vehicle data may be recorded and stored on a remote server or on an onboard recorder such as that described in prior U.S. Pat. No. 8 032 277 the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. The CCTV cameras may also support recording directly to network attached storage devices and sufficient internal flash for completely stand alone operation. For SCDs mounted outside the vehicle the camera housing may be equipped with a camera wash nozzle dryer and defroster. Other exemplary SCDs may comprise closed circuit digital photography CCDP or other IP based digital still cameras.

The exemplary CCTV cameras may also utilize Video Content Analysis VCA technology for automatically analyzing video to detect and determine temporal events not based on a single image. Using VCA the camera can recognize changes in the environment and identify and compare objects in a database using size speed and color. The camera s actions can be programmed based on what it is seeing . For example an alarm may be activated through the driver s Tablet if the camera detects movement of cargo within the trailer. In other exemplary embodiments the CCTV cameras may comprise a facial recognition system computer application for automatically identifying or verifying a driver from a digital image or a video frame from a video source. This may be accomplished by comparing selected facial features from the image and a facial database.

The individual user network in the exemplary implementation may be combined with other user networks and centrally monitored and accessed using a network protocol called Television Network Protocol. Each user network LAN is an integrated system allowing users at any location outside the vehicle to connect remotely from the Internet and view what their SCD cameras are viewing remotely. All online communications may be encrypted using Transport Layer Security TLS Secure Socket Layer SSL or other cryptographic protocol.

In the example illustrated in multiple SCDs comprise respective video cameras C C C mounted to the vehicle V at rear corners of the trailer and above the front grille. The front panoramic camera C is operatively paired with vehicle sensors for the left right turn signals and headlights while the two rear cameras are paired only with the turn signals. The front and rear cameras C C C automatically activate as described above upon use of the turn signals. The front camera C automatically activates upon activation of the front headlights. When the cameras are activated the driver s Tablet computer streams realtime video or displays a still photograph of the areas within view of the SCD cameras. In this example a vehicle inspection check may be performed by the driver or remote user by manually selecting the various tab icons signaling the associated turn signals and headlights to activate thereby activating the paired SCD cameras C C and verifying their proper operation on the Tablet display screen. This vehicle data may be captured and stored and transmitted to a remote headquarters location by selecting tab icon.

In the example of the SCD comprises a panoramic CCDP digital still camera C mounted to the vehicle V above the front grille. The camera C is operatively paired with a vehicle sensor for the transmission park gear. When the driver moves the vehicle transmission from any other gear into park the camera C automatically activates and captures a digital still photograph of the vehicle location. Using the driver s Tablet computer the digital photograph is time and date stamped by selecting tab icon and displayed in realtime to the driver or other user on the Tablet display screen. A GPS tab icon may also be selected by the driver or other user to display and record the exact coordinates of the vehicle location. This vehicle data may be captured and stored and transmitted to a remote headquarters location by selecting tab icon.

In the example of the SCD comprises a video camera C with infrared viewing mounted at a front top location on the vehicle trailer T As the vehicle V approaches an underpass onboard GPS technology and distance sensors cooperate to automatically activate the SCD camera C Using the Tablet computer a height clearance check is displayed in realtime to the driver or other user on the Tablet display screen. Alternatively the height clearance may be confirmed with a spoken announcement from the Tablet s integrated audio system. This camera may also be manually activated by selecting a tab icon on the Tablet s display screen.

In the example of the SCD comprises a CCTV video camera C mounted proximate a trailer hitch of the vehicle V . As the vehicle approaches the trailer T a distance sensor automatically activates the SCD camera C and displays a rearward viewing area in realtime to the driver or other use on the Tablet display screen of Tablet . Alternatively the SCD camera may be automatically activated upon movement of the vehicle transmission into the reverse gear. Additional CCTV video cameras C C may be located inside the trailer and at a rear of the trailer. Each camera may be selectively manually activated by selecting a tab icon on the Tablet s display screen. Additional tab icons may be provided and selected to enable infrared viewing to activate a camera wash system and to emit a reverse audio warning.

In the example of the SCD comprises a CCTV video camera C mounted proximate a trailer hitch of the vehicle V . As the vehicle approaches a boat trailer T a distance sensor automatically activates the SCD camera C and displays a rearward viewing area in realtime to the driver or other user on the display screen of Tablet . Alternatively the camera C may be automatically activated upon movement of the vehicle transmission into the reverse gear. Additional waterproof IP based cameras C C may be located at the front and rear of the boat trailer T to confirm that the boat B is properly loaded and secured on the trailer. Each camera C C C may be selectively manually activated by selecting a tab icon on the Tablet s display screen.

In the example of multiple spaced apart SCDs comprising respective waterproof IP based video cameras C C C and C are mounted proximate the bow stern and port and starboard sides of a watercraft W . As the watercraft W approaches a dock or slip D one or more distance sensors automatically activate one or more of the SCD cameras C C and displays the associated viewing area in realtime to the driver or other user on the display screen of Tablet . Each camera C C may also be selectively manually activated by selecting a tab icon on the Tablet s display screen.

In the example of and SCDs comprising respective temporary CCTV video cameras C C are located at each wing of an aircraft A . When the aircraft is A engaged by a tug or dolly T a tow sensor automatically activates the cameras and displays their associated viewing area in realtime to the tug or dolly operator or other user on the display screen of Tablet . Each camera C C may also be selectively manually activated by engaging a tab icon on the Tablet s display screen. Additional SCDs comprising CCTV video cameras may be located in the cockpit cabin and cargo areas of the aircraft and proximate the landing gear. These areas can be separately viewed by the flight crew on the Tablet s display screen by selecting respective tab icons as described above.

In the example of the SCD comprises a CCTV video camera C mounted proximate the rear bumper of a mining vehicle V or other construction vehicle . As the vehicle V approaches an obstacle O a distance sensor automatically activates the camera C and displays a rearward viewing area in realtime to the driver or other use on the display screen of Tablet . Alternatively the SCD camera C may be automatically activated upon movement of the vehicle transmission into the reverse gear. The camera may also be selectively manually activated by engaging a tab icon on the Tablet s display screen. Additional tab icons may be provided and selected to enable infrared viewing to activate a camera wash system to activate a camera defrost system and to activate a camera drying system.

In the example of multiple SCDs comprising wireless IP cameras are strategically located within the interior of a passenger bus and are operatively paired or synched with the driver s Tablet computer . The bus driver can auto cycle the individual camera feeds at predetermined intervals or may select a touchscreen icon on his Tablet to display the video feed from any desired SCD. When driver stops to load and unload passengers respective front and rear door open sensors or switches may automatically active certain SCD cameras thereby allowing the driver to readily view loading and unloading passengers to be certain that doorway areas are cleared before closing.

In addition to the examples above the present method may be implemented in numerous other vehicle related scenarios. For example in the event of a vehicle accident causing one or more air bags to deploy an air bag sensor may trigger automatic activation of all SCD cameras mounted on the vehicle to capture and record realtime data at the scene.

In another example a fuel tank sensor may trigger automatic activation of an exterior SCD camera proximate the fuel tank. This camera may be used to verify and or authorize vehicle refueling. The fueling process may be viewed by a remote administrator in realtime on any web enabled computer.

In yet another example an engine starter sensor may trigger automatic activation of an interior cabin SCD camera proximate the driver s seat. This camera may capture and record the driver s facial image and may incorporate facial recognition technology to verify and authorize vehicle operation. Once activated the camera may be viewed by a remote administrator in realtime on any web enabled computer.

In yet another example sensors are located at the rear door of the vehicle trailer and are operatively paired with one or more trailer mounted SCD cameras. When the door is opened the sensors cause the cameras to automatically activate and display their viewing area in realtime on the user s Tablet display screen.

In other examples the present disclosure may employ sensors connected to the vehicle steering wheel ABS braking system speedometer lights and turn signals which selectively activate respective paired SCD cameras. The activated cameras automatically display their viewing area in realtime on the driver s Tablet display screen to facilitate vehicle operation and maneuvering. Additionally cameras located inside the vehicle cab may automatically activate and record any improper usage of a cell phones smartphone Tablet or other computing devices by the driver while operating the vehicle.

In another exemplary implementation video cameras may be strategically arranged at a vehicle dock location and may automatically pair via Wi Fi or Bluetooth with the driver s Tablet computer when the vehicle reverses towards the dock. The driver can then use the Tablet display screen to assist in maneuvering the vehicle.

As indicated in the tractor trailer vehicle incorporates SCD cameras V V and V which are collectively and individually viewable on the cab integrated screen or driver Tablet with touchscreen control panel. As shown in the display screen may be located inside the cab at a base of the driver side pillar and to the left of the steering wheel. SCD camera V is aimed as indicated at arrow to capture a 90 degree forward facing minimum view angle. SCD camera V is aimed as indicated at arrow to capture a 40 to 50 degree rearward facing minimum view angle. Cameras V and V are mounted e.g. in tandem oppositely directed at an uppermost point of the vehicle s driver side mirror bracket. SCD camera V is located at a passenger side corner of the trailer and may be aimed as indicated at arrow to capture a 90 degree rearward facing view angle. Alternatively camera V may be aimed as indicated by arrow to capture wider 120 degree rearward facing view angle. The SCD cameras V V V are operatively linked to the vehicle left turn signal such that the cameras automatically display on the cab integrated screen when driver uses the turn signal to indicate a left lane change merge maneuver.

In the example of the tractor trailer vehicle incorporates SCD cameras V and V which are collectively and individually viewable on the cab integrated screen or driver Tablet with touchscreen control panel. In this example the display screen may be located inside the cab either at a base of the driver side pillar and to the left of the steering wheel or to the right of the steering wheel. SCD camera V is mounted at an uppermost point of the vehicle s driver side mirror bracket and is aimed as indicated at arrow to capture a 120 degree forward facing minimum view angle. SCD camera V is mounted at an uppermost point of the vehicle s passenger side mirror bracket and is likewise aimed as indicated at arrow to capture a 120 degree forward facing minimum view angle. The SCD cameras V and V are operatively linked to the vehicle s transmission and or ECM such that when the vehicle is in a low gear or moving slowly e.g. less than 15 mph the cameras automatically display on the cab integrated screen.

In the example of the tractor trailer vehicle incorporates SCD cameras V V and V which are collectively and individually viewable on the cab integrated screen or driver Tablet with touchscreen control panel. In this example the display screen may be located inside the cab either at a base of the driver side pillar and to the left of the steering wheel or to the right of the steering wheel. SCD cameras V and V are located at driver and passenger side corners of the trailer respectively and may be aimed as indicated at arrows to capture respective 120 degree rearward facing view angles. SCD camera V is centrally located at a top end of the trailer and may be aimed as indicated at arrow to capture a 120 degree rearward facing view angle. The SCD cameras V V and V are operatively linked to the vehicle s transmission and or ECM such that when the vehicle is reverse gear the cameras automatically display on the cab integrated screen.

Referring to digital transfers between tractor and trailer of the combination heavy duty vehicle may occur via respective electronic control modules ECMs . The trailer ECM is located at a front end of the trailer and comprises an exposed but weather protected antenna. ECM functions as a collection point for digital trailer data information and video signals. The tractor ECM is located on a back of the cab or sleeper and comprises an exposed weather protected antenna arranged in line of sight with the trailer antenna.

Referring to and Near Field Communication or NFC may be utilized for wirelessly synching or pairing the driver s Tablet computer SCD cameras and other electronics and vehicle systems and subsystems via PLC signals . NFC is a set of standards for Tablet computers smartphones and similar computing devices to establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bringing them into close proximity usually no more than a few centimeters. As illustrated in the flow diagram of the present disclosure may utilize NFC and unpowered NFC chips or tags for synching the driver s Tablet computer and the vehicle SCD cameras. In one implementation NFC tags are located on each of the SCD cameras to be paired with the Tablet as demonstrated in . The driver first touches the Tablet to a particular NFC tag as indicated at Block . This action automatically opens a suitable camera sync CS app pre installed on the Tablet. The CS app reads a pairing code programmed into the NFC tag and then looks for available Bluetooth enabled devices. The CS app uses the pairing code from the NFC tag to pair the located Tablet with the SCD camera. This completes the setup. Once paired the Tablet computer paired SCD camera and vehicle communicate via WiFi Bluetooth as demonstrated in thereby allowing the driver to see images and realtime video feed from the associated SCD. Alternatively activation of a vehicle component or subsystem such as the trailer brake valve or other panel valve can be used to simultaneously power the connected tractor trailer combination unit via SAE J318 and J1067 and complete the pairing process an approach transparent to the driver or user. NFC technology may also be used to automatically adjust vehicle seats and mirrors according to desired specifications pre programmed by the driver using his Tablet computer.

Referring to and the exemplary SCDs may include various maintenance functions and systems designed for selectively cleaning drying and or heating a transparent protective surface of the exterior housing. As previously described the SCD wash system may comprise a focused wash nozzle fluid line wash fluid reservoir and electric pump controlled by the driver via touchscreen icons on the wirelessly connected Tablet. In locations with harsh environments and freezing temperatures the wash system may further comprise a heated fluid option selected by the driver via touchscreen icon on the Tablet. The Tablet computer may further utilize gravity controls and wireless Wi Fi communication for tilt adjusting the video camera within the protective housing such that tilting the Tablet simultaneously tilts the camera in the same direction.

Referring to alternative SCDs of the present disclosure comprise aerodynamic situation communication mirrors SCMs applicable use on heavy duty vehicles . SCMs are mounted to the vehicle body using conventional support structure e.g. framing and hardware on driver and passenger sides while SCMs are mounted on respective vehicle fenders in a related known manner at both driver and passenger sides. In each case the SCM comprises an aerodynamic housing and multi radius reflective member.

Exemplary side mounted SCMs are illustrated in FIGS. each comprising an aerodynamic housing and rearwardly facing multi radius reflective member . The side mounted SCMs cooperate to increase the driver s view range FOV on both driver and passenger sides of the vehicle and may be used alone or in combination with respective conventional 50 sq in flat mirrors shown in . The increased passenger side view FOV and FOV relative to various TMC RP428 vision targets is demonstrated in . In the exemplary SCM the driver field of view is increased using a multi radius reflective member best shown in comprising first second and third arcuately distinct reflective surface areas R R and R respectively divided by respective transition lines T T and T. The first reflective surface area R is relatively large and generally rectangular and has a curvature radius ranging from 500 to 3000 mm. In one example the first reflective surface area R is approximately 5 13 inches. The second reflective surface area R is located at an outside margin of the reflective member and is divided from the first area R by a longitudinal 0.75 inch wide reflective transition line T. This surface area R is approximately 2 inches wide and 16 inches long. The curvature radius of the second reflective surface area R is in the range of 300 to 600 mm. The transition line T extends from a top of the reflective member to the third reflective surface area R. This reflective surface area R is formed at a bottom margin of the reflective member and has a curvature radius in the range of 200 to 400 mm. The third surface area R is approximately 2 inches wide and 7.75 inches long. The first and third surface areas R R are divided by a longitudinal 0.75 inch wide reflective transition line T extending from an inside edge of reflective member to the second reflective surface area R. The second and third reflective surface areas R R are divided by a short 0.75 in wide reflective diagonal transition line T.

In an alternative SCM shown in the driver field of view is increased using a multi radius reflective member comprising first second and third arcuately distinct reflective surface areas R R R divided by sharp or less 0.25 inches wide transition lines T T. The first reflective surface area R is relatively large and generally rectangular and has a curvature radius ranging from 500 to 3000 mm. The second reflective surface area R is located at an outside margin of the reflective member and is divided from the first area by a sharp longitudinal transition line T. The curvature radius of the second reflective surface area R is in the range of 300 to 600 mm. The transition line extends from a top edge of the reflective member to the bottom of the reflective member . The third reflective surface area R is formed at a bottom margin of the reflective member and has a curvature radius in the range of 200 to 400 mm. The first and third surface areas R R are divided by a sharp longitudinal transition line T extending from an inside edge of reflective member to the second reflective surface area R. The second and third reflective surface areas R R are likewise generally rectangular. In this embodiment living hinges H e.g. may be provided at respective transition lines T T to enable slight flexing of the reflective surface areas R R R relative to one another.

Exemplary fender mounted SCMs are illustrated in FIGS. each comprising an aerodynamic housing and rearwardly facing multi radius reflective member . The fender mounted SCM cooperate to increase the driver s view range FOV on both driver and passenger sides of the vehicle . The increased passenger side view FOV and FOV relative to various TMC RP428 vision targets is demonstrated in . In the exemplary SCM the driver field of view is increased using a multi radius reflective member best shown in comprising first second and third arcuately distinct reflective surface areas R R R divided by respective transition lines T T T. The first reflective surface area R is relatively large and generally rectangular and has a curvature radius ranging from 500 to 3000 mm. In one example the first reflective surface area R is approximately 5.25 7.25 inches. The second reflective surface area R is located at an outside margin of the reflective member and is divided from the first area R by a longitudinal 0.75 inch wide transition line T. This surface area R is approximately 2 inches wide and 8 inches long. The curvature radius of the second reflective surface area R is in the range of 300 to 600 mm. The transition line T extends from a top of the reflective member to the third reflective surface area R. This reflective surface area R is formed at a bottom margin of the reflective member and has a curvature radius in the range of 200 to 400 mm. The third surface area R is approximately 2 inches wide and 10.0 inches long. The first and third surface areas R R are divided by a longitudinal 0.75 inch wide transition line T extending from an inside edge of reflective member to the second reflective surface area R. The second and third reflective surface areas R R are divided by a short 0.75 in wide diagonal transition line T.

In each of the exemplary SCMs discussed above the multi radius reflective member locates key visual areas in close proximity. The largest surface area of the reflective member provides a broad field of view FOV with relatively little visual distortion and may be used to observe the adjacent lane with increased coverage balancing the broad FOV with image size needed for clarity of view COV . The driver FOV may be sufficient to capture 5 adjacent lane RP428 vision targets. The smaller radius surface area on the outside margin of the reflective member provides a wider FOV allowing detection of encroaching vehicles or objectives and is particularly useful to observe the rear trailer wheels when turning a corner e.g. FOV may include 70 degree turn RP428 vision target . The smaller radius surface area on the bottom margin of the reflective member provides an increased FOV towards the road surface e.g. less than 3 feet aft of the SCM.

The exact placement of the exemplary SCMs on the vehicle is optional and with trade offs. The forward mounted location of the fender SCMs provides a greater FOV of the adjacent lane but is farther from the driver and therefore offers reduced COV. The typical location at the side of the vehicle is closer to the driver but reduces the adjacent lane FOV. The combination of both side and fender locations may comprise a preferred solution allowing the driver to select an optimum reflective mirror view for a specific driving maneuver. The reflective surfaces of the SCMs may be constructed of a scratch resistant plastic or glass substrate. Reflective surfaces areas of the driver side and passenger side SCM are symmetrically opposite. In other words in each case the longitudinal outside margin of the driver and passenger side reflective member is the side margin farthest from the vehicle body.

In further exemplary embodiments the present disclosure comprises a computer program product e.g. mobile app including program instructions tangibly stored on a non transitory computer readable medium and operable to cause the driver s Tablet or other stand alone or integrated computing device to communicate information vehicle data entertainment and more. For example the driver s Tablet may comprise application software for enabling a dashboard centric interface with tab icons for manually activating selected SCD video cameras such that when the driver selects on a tab icon realtime vehicle information transmitted by the video camera is output to the Tablet. The mobile app default setting may be video camera s . Video cameras can also be displayed by driver request voice activated when driving or may be displayed automatically when the vehicle is in motion the Tablet being capable of detecting movement of the vehicle.

According to another exemplary embodiment the driver s Tablet may comprise a radio music app using WiFi or Bluetooth and transmitting through wireless speakers within the vehicle cabin. This app may be voice activated when the vehicle is moving and allows the driver to select music weather sports talk radio news or the like. Alternatively the driver can manually select from a variety of touchscreen icon s when the vehicle is stopped. Within each category the driver can create icons for various choices or for example might choose to have a music service provider e.g. Pandora as a radio default with a preselected music preference. A wireless module on the steering wheel can be used to change stations categories and control volume. These can also be changed adjusted by voice command.

According to another exemplary embodiment the driver s Tablet may further comprise a media entertainment app using WiFi or Bluetooth and transmitting audio through wireless speakers within the vehicle cabin. The exemplary media entertainment app cannot be activated while the vehicle is in motion. The Tablet s motion sensor detects vehicle movement and overrides ability to enable the app when driving. When at rest the driver can select a movie through any available commercial service e.g. Netflix or Flixster or watch television shows with Hulu or other similar apps. Within each category the driver can create icons for various choices and can manually select icons via the Tablet s touchscreen interface or choose icons through voice command. Volume sound can also be adjusted by voice command if activated.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise a video conferencing app using WiFi or Bluetooth and transmitting audio through wireless speakers within the vehicle cabin. The exemplary video conferencing app cannot be activated while the vehicle is in motion. The Tablet s motion sensor detects vehicle movement and overrides ability to enable the app when driving. When at rest the driver can video call with Skype or other related service to corporate office home or other location. This option can be voice activated for hands free communication while driving.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise a GPS app which can be activated by manually selecting a touchscreen icon or through voice activation. The driver can input a desired route into the GPS app before starting his her shift and can periodically check the route for inclement weather road closures construction accidents and the like. Alternate routes can be located through the GPS using voice activation while driving hands free communication . The GPS app can interface with MapQuest DOT roadway information weather accidents and local television traffic updates to notify the driver of realtime conditions along the current route. The GPS app can speak to the driver using Bluetooth and wireless speakers within the vehicle cab.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise a weather app using WiFi or Bluetooth and transmitting audio through wireless speakers within the vehicle cabin. The weather app can be voice activated when driving to get realtime audio updates on weather. The exemplary app may provide current weather conditions a 24 hour forecast or a 5 day forecast. The driver may also retrieve weather updates for specific cities or locations along the route all through voice activation. When the vehicle is stopped the driver can select icons manually.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise a truck stop vacancy app which allows the driver to find a convenient place to stop for the night or through a required rest period. The truck stop app can be accessed manually through the Tablet s touchscreen icon or through voice activation. Future applications could utilize sensors in truck stop parking areas that monitor if space is occupied similar to airport parking vacancy monitors but located in ground . If a travel stop is fully occupied the app would display on the map as not having parking available and the driver would continue to next truck stop without losing time exiting and searching for a parking spot.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise a road temperature app which allows the driver to obtain an accurate reading of the road temperature while driving. The app can be enabled by the Tablet s touchscreen icon or through voice activation. This app is particularly useful for DOT city snow maintenance trucks. By knowing road surface temperature drivers can better treat the roadways potentially cutting costs as only those areas that are at or below freezing would need to be treated. Used in conjunction with the GPS app discussed above real data can be captured as to roads sections of roads that are most frequently treated. This may help in prioritizing the treatment of certain roads by entering this data into GIS database. The system could also be automated so that when a road temperature reading drops below 32 degrees F. magnesium chloride or the like is automatically dispensed.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise a tire pressure temperature app which allows a driver to obtain an accurate reading of the PSI pressure and temperature of vehicle tires while driving or at rest. This app can be selected manually via touchscreen icon or through voice activation. By checking PSI and temperature of tires on a regular basis the driver may spot potential problems with tires and have them properly reconditioned or repaired. This app may save cost for the driver trucking company and would increase highway safety by potentially reducing the occurrence tire blow outs.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise a brake temperature app which allows a driver to obtain an accurate temperature of the brakes while driving or at rest on both the tractor and the trailer. This app can be selected manually by touchscreen icon or through voice activation. By checking the temperature of brakes on a regular basis the driver may prevent the brakes from overheating and locking up. This is especially important along routes where trucks must descend steep grades. By knowing when the brakes are starting to overheat the driver can pull over quickly and allow the brakes to cool. This app may save cost for the driver trucking company by decreasing downtime and should also increase the safety of highways by reducing accidents caused by brake failure.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise a fluid levels app which allow the driver to obtain an accurate reading of various fluid levels in the vehicle. This app can be selected manually by touchscreen icon or through voice activation. By checking the fluid levels on a regular basis the driver may reduce vehicle breakdowns and or overheating. Knowing that fluid levels are falling below established minimums the driver can pull over and add more fluids or have the vehicle serviced. This app will not only save cost for the driver trucking company by decreasing vehicle downtime but may also increase the safety of highways by reducing breakdowns in high traffic areas and narrow roadways with no shoulders.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise a reefer interface app which will allow a driver to obtain an accurate temperature of contents stored in the reefer tank. This app can be selected manually by touchscreen icon or through voice activation. By checking the temperature of the reefer tank on a regular basis the driver may be able to prevent fluids e.g. milk orange juice or the like from spoiling if the temperature becomes to warm or begins to fluctuate. Knowing when the reefer temperature reaches becomes either too high or too low the driver can pull over and have the reefer cooling system checked. This app may save cost for the driver trucking company by ensuring that the contents of the reefer are transported and delivered at a safe temperature thereby decreasing the risk of spoilage.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise a mileage app which will allow the driver to accurately record miles driven and the hours of rest for the mileage rest log as required for all trucking vehicles . A motion sensor on the driver s Tablet automatically records mileage when vehicle movement begins and continues until the vehicle stops. When the vehicle is at rest the Tablet computes the minutes hours the vehicle is not moving. The mobile app records all data for the driver to transmit back to the corporate office for log keeping.

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise auto cycle app which allows the driver to choose a frequency at which apps are automatically checked e.g. every 60 min 2 hours etc. . The auto cycle app will check all Tablet apps at predetermined intervals and report to the driver audibly if there are any problems that he needs to be aware of or if all systems are functioning properly. This app allows the driver to focus on driving without the need to remember when he last checked the systems or if he checked all of the systems. The auto cycle would also be capable of generating a report stating the time and day that the auto check occurred allowing the report to be saved and or sent directly to the corporate office for record keeping. In the event that auto check reports a problem e.g. brakes are overheating the driver response time to get the system inspected and fixed would also be recorded i.e. time it takes driver to stop and time at rest allowing brakes to cool down .

According to another exemplary embodiment the Tablet may further comprise an interior video app which allows the driver to view the interior contents of the trailer through infrared video to make certain that loads have not shifted while driving. This app can be chosen manually by touchscreen icon or through voice activation.

For the purposes of describing and defining the present invention it is noted that the use of relative terms such as substantially generally approximately and the like are utilized herein to represent an inherent degree of uncertainty that may be attributed to any quantitative comparison value measurement or other representation. These terms are also utilized herein to represent the degree by which a quantitative representation may vary from a stated reference without resulting in a change in the basic function of the subject matter at issue.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described above. No element act or instruction used in this description should be construed as important necessary critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Although only a few of the exemplary embodiments have been described in detail herein those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in these exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this invention. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the appended claims.

In the claims any means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. Unless the exact language means for performing a particular function or step is recited in the claims a construction under 112 6th paragraph is not intended. Additionally it is not intended that the scope of patent protection afforded the present invention be defined by reading into any claim a limitation found herein that does not explicitly appear in the claim itself.

