---

title: Systems and methods for generating and sharing video clips of cloud-provisioned games
abstract: Systems and methods for managing sharing of mini-games over a game cloud system include receiving a request to play a first game executed by the game cloud system, from a first user. The first user is enabled to play the first game, in response to the request, and a recorded video of the game play of the first user is generated. A share request is received from the first user to share the recorded video of the game play. The share request includes a location indicator identifying a location within the recorded video. A video clip is generated from the recorded video of the game play of the first user by including a portion of the recorded video defined in relation to the location indicator identified in the share request. The video clip is shared with one or more users based on information provided in the share request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09566505&OS=09566505&RS=09566505
owner: Sony Interactive Entertainment America LLC
number: 09566505
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 746 478 filed on Dec. 27 2012 and entitled Systems and Methods for Sharing Cloud Executed Mini Games Challenging Friends and Enabling Crowd Source Rating the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application claims priority as a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 797 894 filed on Mar. 12 2013 and entitled Systems and Methods for Sharing Cloud Executed Mini Games Challenging Friends and Enabling Crowd Source Rating the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for defining sharing and playing mini games in a cloud executed system.

Cloud systems deliver services over a network typically the Internet using computing resources hardware and software . The services in the context of gaming enable streaming of content to remote clients wherein most processing is done on servers which may be distributed. Input provided at the remote clients will in turn drive execution of the game on the servers without the need for dedicated gaming hardware at the client s location. Due to the ease of accessing the games executing on the cloud systems cloud gaming has been increasing in popularity because users find it easier to access more titles without complex hardware restrictions. Similarly game suppliers find it easier to manage game code from centralized locations.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for managing sharing of a game video in a game cloud executed system and in particular to the sharing of video clips and mini games with other users. Several inventive embodiments of the present invention are described below.

In one embodiment a method for managing sharing of game videos for games created provisioned and executed in a game cloud system is disclosed. The method includes receiving a request from a first user to access an account managed by the game cloud system. A plurality of games provisioned and executed by the game cloud system that are available for game play are identified and presented on a user interface to the first user to view and access. The first user is enabled to play a first game and a recorded video of the game play by the first user is generated. A share request is received from the first user to share the recorded video of the game play. The share request received from the first user during the game play of the first game includes a location indicator that identifies a location within the recorded video. A video clip is generated from the recorded video of the game play by the first user in response to the share request. The video clip includes a portion of the recorded video defined in relation to the location indicator identified in the share request. The video clip is shared with one or more users based on information provided in the share request. The video clip of the first user is associated with the first game and is stored in the game cloud system along with other video clips shared by other users. Comments interactions provided by users in response to the sharing of the video clip are gathered and used in generating a relative popularity score of the video clip generated from the game play of the first game by the first user.

In one embodiment the sharing of the video clip is by posting the video clip to a website wherein the website used for posting the video clip is one or more social networks the game cloud system or a combination thereof. The posting to the one or more social networks is in the form of a link in a social stream or a newsfeed.

In one embodiment the link is an internal link that is configured to provide a game interface to access and view the video clip from within the social stream or the newsfeed of the social network. User input associated with the video clip at the game interface is used by the game cloud system to rank the video clips.

In one embodiment the posting of the video clip includes a link with a picture that is representative of content contained therein and a popularity score associated with the video clip.

In one embodiment a method for managing sharing of a game video in a game cloud system is disclosed. The method includes receiving a request to access a game managed by the game cloud system from a first user. In response to the request a user interface with available video clips for the game identified in the request is generated. The video clips capture portions of video recordings of game play of the game that are shared by other users. The video clips are organized within the user interface based on relative ranking. Each available video clip is presented in the user interface as a link with a picture that is representative of content contained therein and a corresponding popularity metric. The user interface with the organized video clips is presented for selection and viewing by the user.

In yet another embodiment a system for managing sharing of a game video over a game cloud system is disclosed. The game cloud system includes a game server having a memory to store a game processor module and a processor configured to execute the game processor module from memory. The game processor module includes processing logic to provide access to an user account managed by the game cloud system generate and present a user interface with a plurality of games available for viewing and playing for the user account wherein the games are played on and executed by the game cloud system enable selection and play of a first game by a first user the play of the first game used to generate a recorded video of the game play of the first user receive a share request to share the recorded video of the game play from the first user the share request received during game play of the first game and includes a location indicator identify a location within the recorded video and generate a video clip from the recorded video of the game play by the first user the video clip including a portion of the recorded video defined in relation to the location indicator identified in the share request and sharing the video clip with one or more users based on information provided in the share request.

Other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

The following embodiments describe systems and methods for managing execution and sharing of mini games over a game cloud based system. The management of the mini games includes but is not limited to classifying ranking and sharing mini game in posts within a network based on user interactions at the mini games. In one embodiment during the sharing of particular mini games users are provided with functionality to enable challenging of other users for posted mini games. The challenges are saved and displayed to other users while also enabling the viewing users to play the mini games and participate in the challenge or challenges. In addition to sharing mini games some embodiments describe methods for identifying and sharing portions of videos of a game recorded during game play based on share requests received from specific ones of the users that generated such recordings.

In one embodiment as described in greater detail below the mini games to be shared are custom defined by users. The creation of mini games in one embodiment begins by allowing users to play a full game which they have access to play from an online database.

The game play in one embodiment is through a cloud based processing system that enables streaming of online game play while allowing users to provide interactive input from remote locations that are connected to the internet. While the users play the game a video recording of the game is created capturing the game play activity from the game play session of the respective users. In one embodiment a user is allowed to select a portion of the video recording. The selection of the portion of the video recording is used in one embodiment to define the mini game that is to be created. The user defined mini game will therefore be a segment or part of the full game with a defined start and end point as defined by the user. In one embodiment the segment may have all of the features of the full game. In other embodiments the segment may have less features objects controls etc. than the full game. In one embodiment the user defines the start and end points by selecting the start and end points in the video recording.

The result is a custom selected section of the full game defined as an executable mini game. As the mini game was defined from the video recording the mini game may also be provided with an accompanying video recording portion or clip. In one embodiment as more users create mini games it is possible that many different mini games can be created from the same full game title with each mini game having different start and end points.

Because the mini games have customization associated with the user that created the mini game users may have a desire to share the mini games with others. For example the portion of the video recording that is associated with each mini game will show the game play of the user that created the mini game. The game play may show for example the accomplishments by the user such as particular game scores awards etc.

In yet another embodiment a user may want to just share a selected portion of the video recording game play of the user with other users. The user in this embodiment may initiate a share request for sharing the portion of the video recording. The share request may include a location indicator identifying a location within the video recording which may be used to identify the user selected portion of the video recording for generating a video clip that is to be shared with other users in response to the share request of the user. The information provided in the share request is used to extract the relevant portion of the video recording of the game play. In one embodiment the share request may include a length of game play in relation to the location indicator that needs to be included in the video clip. In one embodiment the share request may provide information related to which portion of the recorded video that needs to be extracted. For example the share request may indicate a portion of the recorded video covering the length of game play starting at the location indicator ending at the location indicator or including portions from before and after the location indicator. The length of game play may be pre defined or may be controlled by the user. More details with regards to generating the video clips will be discussed with reference to

In one embodiment the mini games and or video clips can be shared via a game network where users of the game network can post their created mini games and or video clips. In another embodiment users can post links to the mini games and or video clips on one or more social networks. As a result of the sharing other users in the game network or social network will be allowed access to the mini games and or the video clips. In one embodiment the sharing of video clips for a game generated by users may be on a retailer s game owner s or developer s website. The game retailers game owners may use the video clips to market the game product by allowing users visiting the retailers websites to view the video clips of selective portions of game play shared by players so as to influence the users to buy the game. The users may use the video clips to sample the game before committing to buy the game thereby enhancing the users internet gaming experience. Such experience may potentially enhance the users loyalty to the game retailer developer.

In one embodiment the mini game will include two parts one part is the video portion showing the game play of the user that created the mini game and a second part is an executable portion of the mini game that parallels the section of the full game that was used to create the mini game. In addition to the video portion and the executable portion the mini games may also include challenge comment provided by the user that created the mini game.

In another embodiment the user interface returned to the users requesting access to the game executing on the game cloud system includes a plurality of video clips shared by other users that are available for the game. The user interface may present the video clips in an organized manner based on popularity of the video clips amongst other users. The popularity of the video clips may be determined by monitoring user interactions to the video clips within the one or more social networks in response to presenting the video clips within a social media stream newsfeed of the one or more social networks.

In the embodiment that includes the video recording and executable portion of the mini game during the sharing process the users will be allowed to view the portion of the video recording of the mini game and also play the mini game posted by the creator. During the viewing of the video recording portion or at any time during the mini game access the users can opt to play the executable portion of the mini game. The game plays of the mini game are used to generate mini game play videos. The mini game play videos capture the user activities of the one or more users during their respective game play and may include challenge responses to the challenge comment provided within the post of the mini game. In one embodiment the challenge response may be a response to an original challenge comment issued by the user that posted the mini game for sharing or may be a response to other users challenge response. The challenge response may be in the form of comments text additional postings additional videos links to additional videos images or other annotations. In the embodiment wherein a user interface with video clips of a game are presented the users are able to select any of the video clips to view the game play recorded therein. This option will provide the users with a sampling of the game which may potentially lead to buying of the game. In some embodiments the rate at which mini games video clips are shared viewed played commented on etc. can be used to provide higher ratings to the mini games video clips and to the creator other users.

In one embodiment higher rated mini games video clips will be provided with higher prominence on game websites. In other embodiments mini games video clips that are highly rated can provide rewards to the posting user and or the creator retailer owner of the game that is associated with the video clips. This in turn may provide for a built in mechanism to encourage better quality posting sharing of mini games video clips. Along similar lines mini games video clips created by higher rated users may be preferred over other users when rendering a recommended list of mini games video clips at the website when a user accesses the game cloud system.

In one embodiment user interactions with a mini game may include challenge response and social network content associated with the mini game. The social network content of the mini game may include the number of times the mini game is shared the number of times the mini game is viewed the number of times the mini game is played the number of recommendations for the mini game the number of comments entered for the mini game the number of users that responded to the challenge comment the number of created mini game play videos the rate at which mini games are shared the quality of the mini game play videos generated by other users the number of plays by highly rated players etc.

Each classified and ranked mini game may be displayed based on the classifying categories in the forms of mini game symbols e.g. mini game icons . In some embodiments in addition to the mini game symbols an initial image that is most representative of content of the video recording of the mini game may be identified and associated with the mini game when displayed. Additionally the mini games in each category may be organized based on popularity chronologically or any other pre defined format. In some embodiments the ratings of the different mini games are computed based on the social network content and this rating is used for sorting the mini games and for rendering these ratings alongside the selected ones of the mini games returned for rendering. Similarly the social network content may also be used to rate the users and to compute user status of the different users. Using the rating and status of the different users mini games are selected for rendering on the game website. When a mouse is hovered over a mini game symbol some of the video frames of the mini game represented by the mini game symbol will be automatically played. Further examples and embodiments will now be described below with reference to the exemplary drawings.

In one embodiment that includes rendering the video clips for a game the social network content for a shared video clip may include information related to the social interactions at the shared video clip including the number of times the video clip is shared the number of times the video clip is viewed the number of recommendations or comments received for the video clip the rate at which video clips are shared the quality of the video clips generated by the users the number of video clips generated by highly rated players etc. Information from the social network content in some embodiments is used to generate a ranked list of select ones of the video clips for a game to be returned to a user in response to a request from the user to access the game. In some other embodiments the video clips for each game may be organized in a chronological manner and presented to a user in response to a request to access the game executing on the game cloud system. The video clips returned to a user are presented in a user interface. Each video clip in the user interface includes a link to the video clip a picture representative of content within the video clip and one or more popularity metrics such as a popularity score number of users that have viewed the video clips etc.

It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

With the above general understanding of the various embodiments example details of the embodiments will now be described with reference to the various drawings. illustrates a simplified block diagram of a game server system A used for managing execution and sharing of mini games within a game cloud system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In some embodiments the game cloud system may include a plurality of virtual machines VMs running on a hypervisor of a host machine or simply a host with one or more virtual machines configured to execute a game processor module utilizing the hardware resources available to the hypervisor of the host. A game processor module is configured for managing execution of games and generation and sharing of mini games video clips within the game cloud system . As shown the system A includes a game server executing the game processor module that provides access to a plurality of interactive video games and associated mini games video clips and a game client for requesting access to games mini games over a network such as the Internet and for rendering the games mini games video clips of the games returned by the game server on a display device . It should be noted that the game client is any type of computing device having at least a memory and a processor module that is capable of connecting to the game server over the network and for interacting with the game server to execute a rendered portion of the video game mini game. Some examples of game client device include a personal computer PC home theater PC general purpose computer mobile computing device or any other types of computing devices that can interact with the game server to execute a video game. The game server may be any type of server computing device available in the cloud including a virtual machine executing on a host and accessed remotely through the network .

The game client or simply the client requests access to the games through a user interface provided on a display of the client . In some embodiments the user interface may include a user authentication module to validate a user before servicing a request for providing access to the games from the game network. In response to the request the game server identifies a plurality of video games populates a graphical user interface GUI with the identified set of plurality of video games and returns the user interface to a client for rendering at the display . Each video game may include an initial image associated with it that is representative of the video game. The GUI is populated with the identified video games initial images associated with each of the identified video games and returned to the client device for rendering. Each game may be associated with a plurality of mini games video clips. In some embodiments the mini games video clips are defined by users. Further each game may be associated with a primary video segment. The primary video segment may be a result of game play of the video game by a user within the game cloud system or a social network. The primary video segment is associated with the video game within the game cloud system and is available for sharing.

In some embodiments each user defined mini game within a video game may include a trigger event a task to be performed a sequence of steps or moves or a challenge to be handled or overcome. Similarly each user defined video clip includes video recording of game play by the user in response to a trigger event performance of a task the sequence of steps moves or challenges performed overcome by a user during game play of the game. In one embodiment each mini game defined represents a pre selected portion of the associated game that is less than an entire part of the game. Along similar lines each video clip generated by a user represents a selected portion of the recorded game play of the user that is less than the complete video recording of the game. In one embodiment each video game may be associated with one or more mini games video clips and each mini game of the video game may be associated with a mini game play video. In another embodiment some of the video games may include one or more mini games and other games may not have any mini games associated with it. In one embodiment the GUI generated with the video games in response to the request from the client may provide indicators not shown to identify which of the video games have one or more mini games associated with it and which of the video games have no mini games associated with it. In one embodiment the GUI generated includes one or more video clips for a game that is shared by users. The generated GUI of video games video clips is rendered at the display of the client device . The display may be any type of display that is capable of visually rendering the GUI interface identifying video games or simply games and includes such devices as a monitor or television utilizing any of various types of display technologies such as LCD plasma and DLP technologies. Though not specifically shown the display may also utilize a projector which projects a GUI image onto a display screen wall or other flat or other surface for viewing.

User activity at the GUI is monitored and analyzed to determine type of activity detected at the GUI. When a passive selection activity is detected proximate to an image of one of the plurality of video games a primary video segment of the particular video game or a video clip of a portion of the game play of the video game shared by users is identified for rendering at the display of the client device. The video clip selected may be a top ranked video clip based on popularity of the video clip amongst users of the game. In the instance a primary video segment of the video game is selected active selection activity such as one or more mouse clicks touch voice gesture one or more taps input through a game controller etc. at the video game may be detected either during the rendering of the primary video segment or at an initial image of the video game rendered on the GUI. The active selection activity triggers a selection event that results in an instance of the executable code of the video game to be loaded to the game cloud system enabling play of the selected video game at the client device . The loading of the executable code also includes detecting type of client device associated with a user providing the selection activities and or type of controller available for the user to provide input to the video game. In one embodiment the active selection activity at the video game triggers an select buying event that results in the generation of a user interface for buying the online game. The select buying event may be triggered when the user is accessing the video clips on a website of a game retailer.

When a user logs in to the cloud game network the user may be presented with an option to designate the type of client device through which the user is accessing the cloud game network. In one embodiment a series of client device options are presented from which the user may select one corresponding to his her client device. Similarly the user may also be presented with an option to designate the type of controller device they will use to play a video game. In one embodiment a series of controller options can be presented to the user from which the user may select to designate a controller type corresponding to their controller hardware. In other embodiments the cloud game network can be configured to automatically detect the client device type and or the controller device type.

For example at the time of login the client device may send information to the game server identifying itself as well as a connected controller device e.g. in response to a request from the game server . Based on this information the game server within the game cloud system may determine an appropriate video game output configuration and input parameter configuration to provide a gaming experience optimized for the user s client device and controller device. In one embodiment a look up table is employed to determine video game configuration and input parameter configuration based on a detected client device and a detected controller device. These configuration and input parameters are used to generate the pre defined setup parameters. The setup parameters provide information at the client device to define controls for playing the video game. In addition to the setup parameters a social media interface may also be provided at the client device to enable social interaction with other users.

To assist in the managing execution and sharing of the mini games at the game server a game processor module is provided. The game processor module is configured to execute on the game server and includes a plurality of modules that are configured to interact with one another with one or more data stores and with the client device. Some of the modules within the game processor include a game manager module a game code mapper an activity selector including a passive selection detector and an active selection detector a mini game processor a video segment generator and a metric accumulator . In addition to the above list of modules an AI character overlay module may also be included within the game processor . In some embodiments the AI character overlay module may be part of the mini game processor . The above list of modules is exemplary and should not be considered restrictive. Fewer or additional modules may be provided in the game processor module for managing execution and sharing of mini games in various embodiments of the invention.

The Game cloud system may further include a plurality of generic gaming data storage systems for storing user and game related data and to provide such data to the various modules executing on the game server . Some of the exemplary data storage systems include mini game data store user data store game data store and social media data store as illustrated in to store various processing data. Mini game data store is used to store and retrieve data related to mini games. User data store is used to store and retrieve user data including user authentication data. Game data store is used to store and retrieve video game related data including video clips generated for the respective video games. Social media data store is used to store and retrieve user interaction data from social network.

The role of the various modules will be described in detail with reference to . illustrates a system diagram A identifying various modules and their interactions with one another and with the client social media providers for enabling access and playing of video games stored in a game cloud system GCS in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Referring simultaneously to system A includes a GCS one or more social media providers and a user device all of which are connected via Internet . Although one user device is illustrated in system diagram A in it is to be understood that in practice many more user devices may be connected to Internet to access the services provided by GCS and social media providers . Some exemplary user devices are illustrated in .

In one embodiment game cloud system includes a plurality of modules that receive and process various data related to managing execution and sharing of mini games video clips. In one embodiment the different modules of the GCS may include one or more execution engines that execute on a game server using data available to the game server. For example a game execution engine a user processor module a title index engine a user access logic module and game session manager module may be part of the game manager module illustrated in . A recording engine may be part of a video segment generator module . In addition to the above listed execution engines additional modules execution engines may also be available such as a mini game processor module a network interface a metric accumulator and a social connection manager .

Game cloud system may further include a plurality of data storage systems to store various processing data. A generic list of data storage systems was illustrated in . The various gaming data storage systems of may include one or more specific data storage systems. An exemplary list of specific data storage systems illustrated in include a game state store a game code store a recorded game store a game title store a game network user store a mini game data store and a social network data store . The mini game data store of is similar to the mini game data store of and is therefore referenced using the same reference numeral. The game network user store of is similar to user data store of and is therefore referenced using the same reference numeral . The game state store game code store recorded game store and game title store of may be part of the game data store of . The social network data store of is similar to the social media data store of and is therefore referenced using the same reference numeral .

In one embodiment game cloud system is a system that can provide game applications services gaming related digital content and interconnectivity among systems applications users and social networks. Game cloud system may communicate with user device i.e. client device and social media providers via network interface that will enable wired and wireless communication methods. In one embodiment each social media provider includes at least one social graph that shows social network user interconnections.

In one embodiment a social media provider can be the game cloud system itself whereby user relationships are managed without the need for external social media providers . In still other embodiments the system can operate as a hybrid system wherein social relationships are managed using social graph data from third party social media providers via application programming interface API accesses or the like and user relationships with other users as defined by the game cloud system.

In one embodiment a user e.g. user U can access the services provided by game cloud system and social media providers by way of user device . User device can include any type of device having a processor and memory wired or wireless portable or not portable. User device which is shown connected to Internet includes a display that can be a touchscreen or a display typically provided by a flat panel display a cathode ray tube CRT or other device capable of rendering a display. Alternately user device can have its display separate from the device similar to a desktop computer or a laptop computer. In one embodiment user device can be in the form of a smartphone a tablet computer or hybrids that provide touch screen capability in a portable form factor. One exemplary device can include a portable phone device that runs an operating system and is provided with access to various applications apps that may be obtained over Internet and executed on the local portable device e.g. smartphone tablet laptop desktop etc. .

In one embodiment user device can install an application that enables executions and views of the games stored and shared by the game cloud system . Further user device can be used to communicate with one or more social media provider s via Internet such that user device may be used to execute a game play or view video recordings of the game plays shared by one or more social media providers . For example user U may access a game posted in one of social media providers by selecting a link on a page stream news feed or post of the social media provider and then playing or viewing the game from user device .

In one embodiment the games posted and shared in social media providers are mini games generated based on video recordings of game plays of available game titles. The mini games may be stored in recorded game store of game cloud system . While user U is executing or viewing a game or mini game stored in game cloud system user device is capable of receiving game video frames from game cloud system and transmitting user interactive input simply input to game cloud system . The received game video frames can be shown in display of user device .

In another example the user U may also access a video clip of a game that includes a portion of video recording of actual game play of a game by a user that the user shared with other users. The video clips may be stored alongside information related to the games in recorded game store of game cloud system and made available to any user that accesses the game.

In one embodiment a user e.g. user U may create a user account and register the created user account with game cloud system . After the user account is registered with game cloud system game cloud system may provide a user ID to this registered user account and save the user ID in a user profile associated with the registered user account. The user profile associated with a user account will be described in more detail with reference to . In one embodiment the user profile associated with a user account may be saved in a user database in game network user store .

In one embodiment user access logic may be used to detect all accesses made by user U either through user device or other suitable devices and be used to verify the user log in information e.g. the name and password for the user account of user U . After user U logs into his or her user account user access logic may communicate the user login information with user processor that in turn updates the user login information stored in the user profile. Further user access logic may communicate the user login information with social connection manager so that social connection manager can pull the names of the user s social network friends contacts from one or more social media providers via network interface . The names of the user s social network friends contacts may be received by social connection manager which in turn transmits the received information to game network user store to be saved in the user profile of user U.

After logging in the user can access services provided by game cloud system via game session manager . For example game session manager may inform user processor of the user login information so that user processor may record or update the user login information in the user profile associated with this user. In one embodiment the user profile is stored in game network user store . User processor may also communicate with title index engine to identify game titles associated with the user account. The game titles associated with the user account may be previously purchased by the user previously played by the user and or free game titles identified and made available by the game providers. In one embodiment the game titles associated with the user account may also include game titles associated with a genre defined by the user s interest based on user s prior selection of games. In this example available game titles may therefore be stored in game title store .

In one embodiment after a user chooses an available game title to play a game session for the chosen game title may be initiated by the user through game session manager . Game session manager first accesses game state store to retrieve the saved game state of the last session played by the user for the selected game if any so that the user can restart the game play from a previous game play stop point. Once the resume or start point is identified the game session manager may inform game execution engine to execute the game code of the chosen game title stored in game code store . After a game session is initiated game session manager may pass the game video frames i.e. streaming video data via network interface to a user device e.g. user device .

During game play game session manager may communicate with game execution engine and recording engine to generate or save a recording e.g. video of the game play or game play session as the game play processes. In one embodiment the video recording of the game play can include other game related metadata provided and or captured during game play. The video recording of game play may be saved in recorded game store . The metadata may be saved in game state store .

In one embodiment a mini game video clip may be created using information from the video recording of the game play e.g. via mini game processor or recording engine . For example after a user plays a game and the video recording is created the user can simply watch a replay of the video recording of his or her prior game play. When the user is watching a replay of the video recording the user may find one or more parts to be particularly interesting. For example the user may have achieved a high score or completed an interesting task during the game play. The user in one embodiment is provided with controls to select a portion of the video recording which will then be used by mini game processor recording engine to construct a mini game video clip based on the selected portion of the video. In one embodiment the mini game will include the executable code necessary to render the functionality or part of the functionality that was used to create the content of the selected portion of the video recording. In one embodiment the controls include a share request control that includes an option to provide a location indicator that identifies a location within the video recording for generating the video clip. The video clip is then generated by extracting a selected portion of the video recording in relation to the location indicator. A user selecting the game will then be presented with an option to select the video clip that provides a sampling of content within the game.

A user wishing to play the mini game will be provided with a substantially similar game play experience as the user that originally played the game that created the video recording. In one embodiment the mini game will inherit the game parameters used for playing the game. For instance if the original game play included a scene where the user is riding a bike and is jumping over a hill obstacle and the user selects that portion from the video recording of his game play the new mini game would include code to enable similar or substantially similar game play. In this instance the color of the bike the character used for riding the bike etc. may be inherited from the original game. That is the mini game would enable the user or other users to play the mini game wherein game play would include riding a bike and jumping over the hill obstacle. In this case the user playing the mini game may or may not achieve the same game score for jumping over the hill obstacle.

The portion of the video recording associated with the created mini game may be saved in recorded game store and remaining portion of the video recording may be erased after a defined time period by recording engine . In some embodiments if no mini games are created for a video recording of a game play the video recording of the game play may be erased after a defined time period by recording engine . In some other embodiments if no mini games are created for the video recording of a game play then the video recording of the game play is maintained till a mini game is generated for at least a portion of the video recording and the remaining portion of the video recording may be erased after a defined time period by recording engine . Along similar lines if no video clips are generated for the video recording of a game play the video recording may be erased after a defined time period by recording engine .

In one embodiment the created mini game video clip s may be posted to a webpage in a social network via social connection manager to enable sharing with one or more social network friends of user U in response to a request for sharing received from a user U. Alternately the created mini game video clip s may be posted to a webpage in a game network maintained by game cloud system for sharing with the user U s game network friends based on a share request received from the user U. Sharing however should not be limited to friends. Sharing can also be extended to other users that may have similar likes or game play similarities. In one embodiment the request for sharing may be triggered in response to the user U s selection of a share button provided on the display within the GUI that presents the plurality of games. The share button option is one way of generating a request for sharing and should be considered exemplary and not limiting. Other forms or options for sharing may be provided and used to generate a request for sharing. In one embodiment the request for sharing a mini game may be accompanied by a challenge comment provided by a user U. The challenge comment in this embodiment is configured to be presented alongside the mini game during sharing. In one embodiment in response to the sharing request from user U for sharing of the video clip the video clip may be presented in a user interface along with other video clips for the game. The user interface in this embodiment includes controls for selecting and viewing selected ones of the video clips for the game.

In one embodiment the game code that defines a mini game can be the same code of the full game from which the mini game was created. During the creation of the mini game by mini game processor game play metadata which can include game state and other game attributes such as game level game challenge etc. is used to identify what parts of the game code of the full game are needed to make an executable mini game. A video segment generator within the mini game processor is used to identify the parts of the code that define the mini game. The video segment generator interacts with game code mapper to identify the code segment for the mini game and forwards this information to the mini game processor for further processing to generate the mini game. When the parts of the code of the full game are all identified the code that defines the mini game in one embodiment can be defined by pointers or references to the game code of the full game. By using points and or references the need to create new code packages for each produced mini game is reduced.

As users create mini games video clips for the games from their game titles the code or pointers for the created mini games can be associated with the creating user in the user store . This way each created mini game video clip can be defined by its original creator and metrics regarding play of the mini games and metrics regarding view of the video clips can be attributed or linked to the creating user. For instance if a particular user creates mini game video clip that is played and or shared often with other users the popularity of the mini game video clip can be tracked and ranked against other mini games video clips and users. Similarly the ranking and status of the particular user creating the mini game video clip may be updated to reflect the extent of sharing and popularity of the user s posting of the created mini game and or sharing of the video clip. A metric accumulator module may be used to compute the various games and or users metrics based on the sharing and game play of the mini games video clips generated by the user U. Details of some of the metrics that are computed will be explained in greater detail with reference to .

The user metrics are used to extend awards or other game related perks to the user contributing to the generation of the mini games and to organize the video clips for the game. For example a user that creates mini games video clips that are shared often or tagged with higher frequency can be provided with rewards. The rewards can be provided for example by the developer of the game title from which the mini games video clips are created. Alternately the status of the user may be elevated based on the number of mini games video clips created and the level of sharing. The elevated status may be used in the offering of perks game rewards including free plays free games free game objects monetary incentives etc. to name a few. As more mini games are made from particular game titles and or more video clips are generated the game title may grow in popularity and will encourage users to purchase a full version. In one embodiment full versions of a game title are unlocked to enable mini game creation. In one embodiment play of a mini game will allow creation of video recordings of the mini game play but may not enable creation of mini games without having access to the full game title.

Still continuing with in one embodiment during a game play user interactive input entered by user U may be transmitted to game session manager within game manager module of game cloud system .

In other embodiments user interactive input besides input used to drive game play may include challenge response in the form of for e.g. texts images video recording clips etc. in response to the challenge comment provided for the mini game. The mini game may be a mini game that is created by user U based on a video recording of the game play or a shared mini game posted by other users e.g. social network friends of user U.

In one example if user interactive input is challenge response the challenge response may be received by game session manager which in turn informs the mini game processor and user processor that the challenge response is received. The mini game processor may be used to store the association of the challenge response to the post of the mini game in a mini game data profile stored for the mini game in the mini game data store . User processor may be used to save a response pointer that points the challenge response association stored in the mini game data store to the user profile associated with user U.

In one embodiment user interactive input may be in the form of comments posts etc. provided by users other within the social media of the social network in response to the video clips shared by a user. The recording engine may be used to store the association of the user interactive input obtained from the social network to the video clip in the recorded game store . User processor may be used to save the association of the user interactive input to the video clip in the user profile associated with user that created the video clip.

In one embodiment mini game processor during mini game creation may be used to analyze the content of a mini game and identify a video frame that is most representative of the content of the mini game. Thus when the mini game is created the mini game may be associated with the identified video frame as an icon or still image. The more interesting the frame is the more likely it is that the mini game may be played by others. The generated mini games video clips are posted to one or more social network of user U and or game network for sharing with other users. The posting of the mini games video clips is in response to a request for sharing received through a post share option as described above.

In another embodiment mini game processor may be used to manage the mini games video clips stored in recorded game store for each game. The mini game management may include but not limited to mini game classification mini game video clip ranking based on other users interactions to the mini games video clips mini game video clip representative picture identification mini game video clip view or execution initiation etc. For instance if certain mini games video clips have a higher number of user interactions this may indicate that the content of the mini game video clip is interesting and or is being posted and shared the most. In one embodiment such user interactions are gathered by the metric accumulator the information within analyzed to determine the type of user interaction and to compute one or more user and or game metrics. The user and or game metrics are used to select and organize the mini games video clips when the user accesses the games from the game cloud system. As such depending on the popularity of the mini games and popularity status of the users creating the mini games video clips some mini games video clips can be displayed more prominently on a website relative to other mini games video clips and such display define the degree of posting and sharing that such mini games video clips experience.

Once the mini games video clips are posted for sharing other users interactions at the mini games video clips are tracked. The user interactions of the mini games video clips may include the user content and the social network content of the mini games video clip. In one example in response to the request to share received by the mini game processor and or recording engine the mini game processor and or recording engine may instruct social connection manager via game session manager to post some or all of the mini games video clips for a game stored in the recorded game store at one or more social media providers so that those mini games video clips can be viewed and or played by the social network users. Social connection manager may periodically pull social network content associated with those shared mini games from social media providers and save the social network content in social network data store .

The social network content of a shared mini game may include without limitation the number of times the mini game is viewed played shared and recommended by the social network users. The social network content for the mini game may also include the challenge comments and the number of comment responses made by social network users. In one embodiment mini game processor may save a social network content pointer that points to the social network content for a mini game to the mini game data profile associated with the mini game. The social network content of a shared video clip may include without limitations the number of times the video clips is viewed shared and recommended by the social network users. The social network content for the video clip may also include the type and number of comments made by social network users. The recording engine may save social network content and its associations for the video clip in the game data profile associated with the game.

As shown in users U and U are geographically located closer to GCS user U is located about in the middle of the distance between GCS and GCS user U is located in between GCS and GCS but is closer to GCS users U and U are located near GCS users U and U are located near GCS and users U U and U are located near GCSE. Although six game cloud systems and eleven users are shown it is to be understood that in practice more or less game cloud systems may be included in game cloud network B and more or less users may access the services provided by game cloud network B.

In one embodiment each GCS in game cloud network B is located in a data center that houses computer systems and associated components to support multiple operating systems. As an example the structure of each GCS may be similar to GCS as shown in . Although it should be understood that a GCS may include fewer or more processing components or logic elements depending on the processing desired. In one embodiment each GCS in game cloud network B may communicate with other GCSs so that the information for various user profiles stored in respective game network user stores of a GCS can get updated and synchronized. Through the communication among the GCSs game cloud network B can dynamically distribute the work load to provide load balancing and assign users based on the work load of each GCS and distance factors.

In one embodiment when a user is trying to log into his or her user account online via a user device depending upon the geographical location of the user the user may be routed to a GCS that is closest to his or her user device. For example because user U along with his or her user device is located near GCS user U utilizes the game services provided GCS after his or her user device is connected to GCS. Similarly user U may utilize the game services provided by GCS user U and user U may utilize the game services provided by GCS user U and user U may utilize the game services provided by GCS and user U user U and user U may utilize the game services provided by GCSE based on geographical distance to respective CGSs.

In another embodiment when a user is located approximately in the middle of two GCSs the user may access the game services provided by both GCSs. For example user U is located approximately in the middle of GCS and GCS. When user U is trying to log into his account the user device of user U may be connected to either GCS or GCS or both GCSs depending upon the work load and latency of the GCSs. In still another embodiment a user may be connected to a GCS that is not the closest one to this user because the GCS that is closest to this user is experiencing heavy work load. For example user U may be initially connected to GCS because user U is located closest to GCS. Due to heavy work load of GCS user U may be disconnected from GCS and be connected to GCS. During the period of switching from GCS to GCS user U may be temporarily connected to both GCS and GCS for a while and then get disconnected from GCS after GCS has replicated the game state of user U in GCS. Thus the switching from one GCS to another GCS is transparent to the user without affecting the user s experience with the game. In another example user U may be directly routed to GCS because GCS has larger capacity than GCS.

In one embodiment the friends field may be populated automatically by accessing external social networks. In this embodiment the game cloud system may include code instructions that enable calls to external application programming interfaces APIs of social networks. The APIs can be used to query the social networks for data concerning the social grid defined within a social graph and relationships stored in the social grid of the social network. The data obtained from the social grid may be used to share the mini games video clips with friends of the user such as by automatically posting mini games video clips to newsfeeds of friends or the like. The shared mini games include the challenge comment provided by the user that created the mini game. These functions will enable wider sharing tagging rating and commenting on mini games as they are shared and used in greater extents. The friends other users in turn may respond to the challenge comment by playing the mini games and or respond to the posting of the video clips by viewing the video clips. The user interactions defining one or more game plays of the friends and or other users are received as inputs by the mini game processor through the game session manager . The video segment generator within the mini game processor use the user inputs to generate mini game play videos. The friends other users may also respond to the challenge comment within the mini game by providing challenge response. The challenge responses are also received as user inputs . The mini game play videos and any challenge responses are posted to the mini game data store . The other users may in turn share the mini games and the videos mini game play videos associated with the mini games with their own friends social contacts through one or more social network and or game network. User interactions at the video clips are used to update user metrics on the game network user store and the game metrics of the game associated with the video clips at the recorded game store .

In one embodiment the User Name field the User ID field and the User Password field are used to record the name of the user the ID assigned to the user when he or she created the user account in game cloud system and the password set up by the user. The User Login field is used to indicate whether this user is currently logged into his or her user account. As discussed above the user login information may be updated by user processor . The User Level field is used to indicate the game play levels of the user. The User Awards field shows the awards received by the user during previous game plays. The User Status field of the user is computed from one or more metrics collected during posting of the mini game sharing of the mini game and game playing of the mini game by other users.

In one embodiment the Game Titles field shows all available game titles for the user. The available game titles may be those that the user is able to freely plays because either the user purchased the game or the game is free to play. In still other embodiments the Game Titles field can show or identify the games that the user is able to see such as based on the rating of the games. If the rating of the play has a minor rating selected games would be made accessible for that player that fits the rating.

As discussed above a user may create one or more mini games video clips based on a video recording of a game title played by the user. If one or more mini games video clips are created for the game title the created mini games video clips will be shown under this game title. In this example there are three available game titles for the user Game Title 1 Game Title 2 and Game Title 3 . Within each game title one or more mini games may be created. For instance two mini games Mini Game 1 and Mini Game 2 with one challenge comment each Challenge Comment 1 Challenge Comment 2 are created from Game Title 2 and four mini games Mini Game 1 Mini Game 2 Mini Game 3 and Mini Game 4 are created for Game Title 3 with Mini Games 1 and 2 each associated with a corresponding challenge comment Challenge Comment 1 Challenge Comment 2 . In one embodiment the mini games that are not associated with any challenge comments may be mini games that have been generated but not been posted to any network for sharing. In one embodiment the user can start to play a game by selecting actively selecting through clicking touching etc. on the available game title shown in user profile C. One or more video clips may be created for each game title and the list of available video clips not shown may be listed under the respective game title.

In still other embodiments mini games video clips can be shown on a separate webpage where a user can select to play mini games video clips created by the user or created by other users. In these embodiments the mini games video clips shown on the webpage are the ones that are posted by one or more users for sharing. The mini games video clips shown can be organized based on game types genres age appropriate content popularity amongst users of a network etc. Mini games video clips having larger numbers of user interactions e.g. plays or tags or provided by a highly ranked user maybe ranked higher and or placed in a more prominent location on the webpage. From this webpage of mini games video clips other users can access to view the video clips play such mini games or share the mini games with others within the game network or externally via social networks.

In one embodiment a mini game may be created by a user that owns or has access to a full version of the game that is used to create the mini game. When a user plays the full version of the game a video recording is created of the game play. From this video recording the user can select a portion of the video recording e.g. a starting point and an ending point . This portion of the video is saved and associated to the user. In one embodiment the portion of the video may be selected based on a location indicator. In this embodiment the selected video portion is in relation to the location indicator. In addition the portion of video is used to identify metadata and state data that was created when the full version of the game was played to create the video recording. This information is in turn used to identify the code parts of the full game code that will be required to create an executable mini game that will encompass at least the functionality seen in the portion of the video that was selected from the video recording.

In one embodiment once the mini game is created the mini game may have two parts. For example a first part is the portion of the video selected by the user similar to video clip from the full video recording. This portion can be posted and shared so that other users can see a video of the creating user s game play and the results which may have been interesting . Once a person views the video portion the person can elect to play a mini game for that portion of video.

Also for example a second part is the executable mini game. As in the example above if the portion of the video shows the user jumping an obstacle on a bike the mini game will provide code to allow another player to attempt the jump of the obstacle on the bike. The executable code of the mini game allows the users to play the mini game and will compute game scores for the mini game based on the user interactions received from the other users during game play. The game score related to the mini game achieved by the original player using the full game can then be compared to the score achieved by the other player during the game play of the mini game. The game score of the other player may be greater than less than or equal to the score achieved by the creating user. Depending on the score and depending on the interest of the other users for sharing this information the game score may be updated to the game cloud system as a response to the challenge comment and may also be shared with other users.

To provide the option to further share a third part may be the creation of a mini game video portion that is a recording of game play of the mini game by other users. Thus as more players play the mini game there will be many mini game video recordings of those game plays which will also be saved and associated with the original mini game and to the players that played the mini game.

In this example however the creator of the mini game is going to be the owner of the full version of the game. If the person playing the mini game wishes to make a mini game himself or herself that person can purchase the full copy or full locked access and produce his or her own mini games that can be shared in the same way.

In one embodiment the Friends field in user profile C shows the user s friends in both game network and social network. In this example the user s game network friends are shown under the Game Network sub field and the user s social network friends are shown under the Social Network sub field. The user s friends who belong to both the game network and the social network may be listed under the Common sub field.

For a user profile stored in game network user store the User Name field the User Login field the User Level field the User Status field and the User Awards field may be viewable to other users in the game network while the other fields in the user profile may not be viewable to other users. In one embodiment a user may select whether to make the Friends field in his or her user profile to be viewable by other users.

Based on the information provided within the share request portion of the video recording of the game play of the user in relation to the location indicator is extracted. For example based on the information in the share request a portion of the video recording of game play covering a length of game play ending at the location indicator beginning at the location indicator or a portion that includes recorded video before and after the location indicator may be extracted to generate the video clip. The length of game play to be extracted may be pre defined or user controlled. In one embodiment the user may retrieve a recorded video of a previously played game to generate the video clip. In another embodiment the user may use the video recording of a current game play for generating the video clip. The generated video clip is stored on server of the game cloud system. The generated video clip is presented to a user in a user interface on a webpage in response to a request to access the game from the game cloud system. In one embodiment the video clips generated by a plurality of users for a game may be stored on a retailer s game owner s website and presented to a user requesting access to a game in a user interface on a webpage of the website of the retailer or through a link from within a social media page. In an alternate embodiment the video clips by the user may be shared with other users by directly posting the video clips in the webpage. In this embodiment the webpage may be a social media page and the user interface with the video clip may be presented in a social media stream or newsfeed.

In one embodiment the user interface may include select ones of the video clips generated and shared by one or more users of the game and a selection option to select any one of the video clips for viewing. The select ones of the video clips are provided as links in the user interface along with a picture that is representative of content contained within and one or more metrics associated with the video clips and or the game. For example the video clip metric may include a relative popularity score of the video clip. In another embodiment the popularity score of the video clip and of the game may be presented in the user interface. User interactions for the selected video clip is monitored at the user interface of the webpage and used to update one or more of the user metrics and video clip metrics game metrics for the game associated with the video clip. The user metrics and game metrics are used to determine relative ranking of the user video clips and the game.

In one embodiment the game player may create a mini game MG based on video recording by defining a portion of the recorded video. The portion is defined by indicating a start position and an end position of the mini game within the video recording during or after a view of video recording . For example using recorded video frames the game player may choose video frame as the beginning of MG and video frame as the ending of MG by clicking and un clicking i.e. releasing a mini game creation check box displayed on a screen respectively. Other controls may also be provided to indicate the desire to create a mini game such as touch screen inputs voice inputs gesture inputs etc. The mini game processor module within the game processor executing on a game server within the game cloud system will detect the selection of the video frames and interact with the game code store of the game processor module to identify the game code that corresponds to the selected video frames. The identified game code is associated with the created mini game along with the selected video frames defining the video of the created mini game MG. The created MG is playable to view the video recording of MG that is a portion of video recording and is executable to play game code of MG that is a portion identified from the full game code of the original game title played by the game player using the selected video frames. The video recording of MG in one embodiment has associated therewith metadata . When the video recording of MG is viewed the associated video frames for MG are shown. The metadata will identify the attributes of the mini game including the game level game status game objects used etc.

In another embodiment multiple mini games can be created based on video recording . As shown in MG is not overlapped with MG and MG and MG and MG are partially overlapped with each other. In one embodiment the created mini games e.g. MG MG and MG may be saved in recorded game store by mini game processor of game cloud system .

In this example mini game data profile A may include without limitation the Mini game Name field the Original Game Title field the Mini game Code field the Mini game Beginning Data field the Mini game Ending Data field the Video Content field including Game Video Data and Mini Game Video Data sub fields the Social Network Content field the Mini game Creator field the Mini game Creation Time field the Mini game classification field and the Mini game Ranking field. The Mini game Name field is used to record the name of the mini game and the Original Game Title field is used to list the name of the original game based on which the mini game is created. The name of the user who created the mini game along with the mini game creation time may be recorded under the Mini game Creator field and the Mini game creation Time field respectively.

The Mini game Code field is used to record a game code beginning pointer that points to the beginning of the game code of the original game and a game code ending pointer that points to the ending of the game code of the original game. It should be understood that the beginning and end of the game code is simply used to connote the start and end of the mini game which is constructed or assembled using the game code of the full game. In many instances the mini game will inherit game code settings i.e. pre defined setup parameters that may have been set when the game was first played in the context of the full game. For example if the character is customized to have a particular look that customization may be selected for the mini game segment. In other embodiments default customizations or settings are automatically made in the definition of the mini game code. In one embodiment the Mini game Beginning Data field is used to record a video beginning pointer that points the beginning of the video recording of the game play for the mini game created out of the original game title. In one embodiment the Mini game Ending Data field is used to record a video ending pointer that points to the ending of the video recording of the game play for the mini game.

In one embodiment the Game Video Data sub field under the Video Content field may be used to record information related to the game play of the game and the Mini Game Video Data under the Video Content field may be used to record information related to the video recording of the mini game during the mini game creation. The information may include setup parameters game object attributes number of mini games created popularity of the mini game difficulty level etc.

In one embodiment the Social Network Content field may be used to record the number of times the mini game is tagged shared played viewed commented on and recommended. The rate at which any of these social actions take place can also be tracked which can be used as a metric to infer a higher or lower rating.

In one embodiment the number of times the mini game is shared may be recorded under the Shared sub field. In one embodiment the number of times the mini game is played or executed may be recorded under the Played sub field. In this embodiment the Played recording may correlate to the number of users of the social and or the game network that responded to the challenge comment that accompanies the mini game when the mini game was created. The number of times the mini game is viewed may be recorded under the Viewed sub field. The number of times the mini game is recommended may be recorded under the Recommended sub field. The Social Network Content field may also be used to record the number of comments entered by network users e.g. under the Comments sub field.

The Mini game Play Videos sub field under the Social Network Content field may be used to record the number of mini game play videos created based on the executions of the mini game the names of the users who created those mini game play videos along with their playing scores. In addition to the above metrics the Social Network Content field may also include rating of the mini game provided by the other users in one embodiment. In this embodiment the rating may be provided by the other users in response to the Challenge comment and may reflect the relative level of difficulty of the mini game as envisioned by the other users. In one embodiment the rating may also be computed based on number of recommendations provided by other users. In one embodiment one or more of the metrics specified within the Social Network Content field may be used to compute User Status of a particular user. The User Status of a particular user may be computed based on the number of other users that respond to the challenge comment of the mini game posted by the particular user the number of recommendations that the mini game garners the rating of the mini game provided by other users etc. In one embodiment the social network content of a mini game may be received via social connection manager of game cloud system . These examples are provided for clarity but it should be understood that fewer or more metrics can be captured or displayed to generate the ranking data.

In one embodiment mini game processor of game cloud system may classify the mini game based on the pre defined categories. For example the mini game may be classified as an action mini game. The classification of the mini game may be recorded under the Mini game Classification field. Further mini game processor of game cloud system may be used to rank all of the mini games in each classified category based on the video content and the social network content associated with each mini game. The ranking of a mini game may be saved in the Mini game Ranking field. Additional classification may be provided within each category as will be described with reference to .

The social network content of the mini game is generated by the social network users after the mini game is posted for sharing in a social network or a network site such as the game network. For example the social network content may include without limitation the number of times the mini game video clip is shared the number of times the mini game is played the number of times the mini game video clip is viewed and the number of times the mini game video clip is recommended by various users in the social network. The social network content may also include the number of comments i.e. challenge response made by the social network users in response to the posted video clip and or challenge comment provided within the mini game and the number of mini game play videos created based on the execution or play of the mini game. Further the number of times the created mini game play videos i.e. video clips are viewed may also be included in the social network content. In one embodiment social network users can rate the shared mini game video clip e.g. by giving one to five stars. In another embodiment the social network users can rate the shared mini game video clip using a numerical scale. The social network content may also include the user ranking not shown for the mini game.

In an alternate embodiment the social network webpage may be used to access the games in the game network through a user account. In this embodiment a user can select one of the games to generate one or more mini games video clips and post the created mini games video clips to the social network and or game network for sharing. The posted mini games may include a challenge comment issued by the user creating the mini game.

The mini games in the Action category may be displayed in the forms of mini game symbols e.g. mini game icons or thumbnails with each mini game symbol having a representative picture image. In one embodiment the representative picture image is a mini game video frame that is representative of the content of the mini game.

In the example of mini games illustrated in six mini games symbols and are shown at one time in the Action category tab . Alternatively more or less mini game symbols can be displayed at one time in a category tab. In one embodiment if there are more mini games than the ones already displayed in the Action category the other non displayed mini games can be shown by clicking either the upper or down arrows in scroll bar . In one embodiment when a game is selected the corresponding video clips may be rendered in a manner similar to how the mini games are described to be rendered with reference to .

In one embodiment the mini games may be stored in recorded game store of game cloud system and displayed by mini game processor based on the classification and ranking of each mini game. In one embodiment the mini games in a classified category may be ranked based on the user interactions of mini games in a classified category.

In one embodiment the representative picture displayed on top of a mini game symbol e.g. a picture image is a mini game video frame that is representative of the content. The representative picture may change as the content of the mini game changes over time based on user interaction. For example a user s interaction to overcome an obstacle within the mini game may change over time based on repeated game play of the particular mini game. Such changes are captured and the frame that best represents the content may be used as the representative picture. Mini game processor of game cloud system may be used to identify the representative picture for each mini game displayed using information stored in the recorded game store and mini game data store .

In this example when a user hovers mouse cursor over mini game symbol e.g. passively select the video frames   to  N of the mini game represented by mini game symbol will start to play without having to select the mini game symbol . When a user finds a mini game he or she likes the user can double click e.g. actively select the mini game symbol to launch or start instant play from the cloud gaming system in streaming mode. Alternatively the user may double click a mini game symbol to open another webpage that shows the mini game represented by the mini game symbol along with other related information. Rendering of the video clip can be done either through active selection for e.g. double click or other user action or passive selection for e.g. hovering .

In an alternate embodiment illustrated in a game network webpage provides an organized list of the classified and ranked mini games in response to user accessing a user account on the game network in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In this embodiment the mini games presented in the game network webpage may be organized under categories that are different from the one rendered or may be part of the categories illustrated in . For example some of the categories may include mini games previously created viewed by the user Top Rated mini games mini games with challenge posted by social contacts of the user Today s hot picks Newly added Mini games to name a few. These categories in some embodiments may be sub categories within the categories illustrated in . Some of the mini games rendered in the webpage may not be posted to game network or social network for sharing.

For instance as illustrated in some of the mini games such as MG created by the user who is accessing the user account of the game website may not be posted to game network or social network for sharing. It should be noted herein that some of the mini games that are created by the user accessing the user account are the ones that may or may not be posted to a network for sharing. On the other hand the mini games that are posted by other users to the network have to be posted i.e. available for sharing in order for such mini games to be included on the webpage of any website or social network stream newsfeed for access and play. An indicator such as posting indicator may be provided with the mini games to indicate the sharing status of the mini games. For instance mini games MG MG MG and MG are created by the user Bob. Further mini game MG is posted for sharing as evidenced by the challengee counter within a posting indicator box indicating 1 . In this instance when the mini game MG is posted the challengee counter within the posting indicator is incremented by 1. Similarly mini game MG has been posted and at least 22 other users have accepted the challenge and played the mini game as evidenced by value 23 in the posting indicator box 1 for the initial post for sharing and 22 other users that have accepted the challenge and played the mini game. Along similar lines mini game MG has been posted and at least 61 other users have accepted the challenge and played the game. Thus based on the value in the posting indicator box one can deduce whether the mini game has been posted for sharing and the number of users that have accepted the challenge and played the mini game shared by a user.

In one embodiment a mini game may be created and not posted for sharing. For example Mini game MG has been created but not shared with anyone in the game network and or social network. This is evidenced by the presence of the mini game icon but a lack of a posting indicator box.

In the embodiment illustrated in the mini game that is created and not posted is a mini game MG that was created by user Bob. In this example the game processor will provide an option such as a Post option at mini game MG for posting the mini game to one or more networks. The Post option will also allow the user to generate a challenge comment that is posted alongside the mini game when posted. When the user Bob selects the mini game for sharing the game processor will detect the active selection activity at the mini game MG and post the mini game for sharing to one or more networks as specified by user Bob in his request along with the challenge comment. When the mini game is posted the challengee counter within the posting indicator box will be incremented by 1 as shown in mini game MG. As users respond to the challenge the posting indicator box at each user s mini video game play box is dynamically updated to reflect the number of users that have accepted the challenge and the same is also updated to the original post as evidence by the different values within the posting indicator boxes of the different users and the final count is reflected in the original post MG that indicates a value 62 in the posting indicator box.

If user Bob selects a mini game created by him or by any other user through active selection activity and the selected mini game has already been posted the active selection activity will prompt the game processor to show the original post of the mini game with game plays of all the users that have responded to the challenge. As illustrated in based on the active selection activity indicated by the cursor at mini game MG by user Bob the list of users that have responded to the challenge and the corresponding challengee counter within the posting indicator is rendered at the user interface of game play within the webpage of the game website of user Bob. As more users respond to the challenge a navigation bar or scroll function may be provided to view the game plays of all the responders along with any challenge responses provided by the responders during mini game plays.

In one embodiment the challengee counter can be incremented upon the posting of the mini game for sharing with other users. As more and more users respond to the challenge the posting indicator box provided within the mini game play interface gets dynamically updated to reflect the current number of users that played the mini game as evidenced by the changing values of the challengee counter within the posting indicator boxes provided within the mini game play interface of different users in .

The current number of users that have accepted the challenge and played the mini game is also reflected in the original challenge post MG that indicates a value 62 in the posting indicator box. The challengee counter provides a good indication of whether the mini game was posted or not and whether other users have accepted the challenge and played the mini game. The challengee counter is rendered alongside the mini game or some other visible location and updated to the mini game data store and user data store of all the users that generated the mini game and played the mini game.

When a user accessing the webpage hovers i.e. passively selects over a mini game from the list of mini games the video segment of the mini game is rendered in a portion of the webpage . Alternately the video segment may be rendered in a new window in a pop up window etc. When a user clicks double clicks i.e. actively selects a mini game from the list of mini games from the display of the user device the executable portion of the mini game is rendered at the game server. In response to the execution of the mini game at the game server the user interface at the display of the user device is updated with information related to game controls. The information is used to define controls that are appropriate for the user device to enable the user to play the mini game. Further the user interface provides a rendition of the game play and accepts user interactions through the game controls specific for the client device. The user interface for game play of the mini game may replace the GUI where the plurality of mini games was rendered or may be provided in a pop up window or a new window. Although the embodiments of are described with reference to providing an organized list of mini games for user interaction and rendering the teachings of the various embodiments can be extended to provide an organized list of ranked video clips of a game.

In another embodiment illustrated in the mini game selected for play by user Bob may be a post shared by another user. For instance user Bob may accept a challenge extended by user Mark by selecting Mark s mini game MG and play the game. When user Bob passively selects the mini game MG a video of game play of the mini game generated by user Mark will render at the user interface of the display of the client device of Bob. When the user Bob actively selects the mini game MG a user interface of game play will be rendered enabling the user Bob to play the mini game MG. In this embodiment user interface of game play provided by the game processor module will include the original post of MG s creator responses by the other users that have accepted the challenge and a game play interface for user Bob to play the game and generate a mini game play video and any response to the challenge.

It should be noted herein that each mini game that has been shared will include a mini game posting indicator box i.e. challengee box indicator that is non zero. User Bob may play the mini game MG generate a mini game play video and post the mini game play video in response to the challenge. User Bob may also share the mini game MGwith other users in the form of a link using a share post option available to user Bob. The share option is exemplary and should not be considered limiting. Other forms of sharing posting may be used. When other users access the mini game MGshared by user Bob they will be directed to the original post of the user Mark that created mini game MGand the posting indicator box of mini game MGwill be incremented to reflect the current challengee counter value when the other users accept the challenge and play the mini game. Each of the mini game play videos and challenge response are updated to the mini game data store and game network user store . A navigation bar may be provided to enable any user to view the responses from all the other users that have responded to the challenge.

In one embodiment the posting of the mini game provided in the webpage of the game website accessed by user Bob may include other game metrics such as the mini game score of the creator of the mini game challengee count of the mini game etc. For a mini game that is just created the challengee counter is one and the game score may be the score achieved by the user creating the mini game. In one embodiment as other users accept the challenge the mini game score in the main post of the mini game may be updated with a mini game score of another user that achieved a score higher than the user that created the mini game. In this embodiment the user ID of the user that achieved the higher score may also be rendered alongside the mini game score in the main post of the mini game. In one embodiment the game score with the user ID may be provided as a link which when selected may direct a user to the mini game play video of the user whose higher score is rendered at the main post of the mini game.

In addition to the challengee counter the mini game post may also render an image or avatar of a user user ID status of a user within the game network and a rating of the mini game as provided by other users or as computed based on the level of sharing and level of responses received for the mini game. In one embodiment the status of the user creating the mini game is computed based on the number of mini games that was created by the user number of other users that played the mini game number of users that viewed the mini game number of users that recommended the mini game etc. The status indicates the relative ranking of the user within the game network.

For instance the status of a user may be in the form of a ranking such as Platinum rank Gold rank Silver Rank Bronze rank etc. The above form of providing status is exemplary and other forms of providing status may be used. In some embodiments depending on the relative ranking of the user incentives may be provided by a video game owner. The incentives may be in the form of monetary awards game object awards unlocking of one or more games game levels providing free plays or additional incentives perks. These incentives are provided to keep the user engaged and involved with the games within the game network.

In this instance the mini game and the challenge comment is created by user Bob. Some examples of challenge comments comments A through C are illustrated in . In response to the challenge comment a plurality of users Steve John Mike Eva etc. may play the mini game. The game play is captured in a mini game play video. Users may also respond to the challenge comment in the form of a challenge response D and E etc. Each mini game play generated by other users that accept the challenge along with any challenge response is associated with the original post of the mini game so as to be presented alongside the mini game for other users to view and play.

Users responding to the challenge comment from a creating user may all not respond to the comment. Instead they may simply play the mini game provided in the post. As a result some of the mini game play videos generated in response to the initial mini game challenge may not include any challenge responses. Irrespective of whether a user provides a challenge response or not each of the mini game play videos recording the mini game play are stored with the post in the mini game data store user data store and rendered alongside the mini game post for other users to view and play.

In this embodiment webpage A shows a shared mini game associated with five mini game play videos MGPVs that are created based on the executions or plays of mini game by others a play button for executing the game code of the shared mini game with an initial image provided by a video frame that is representative of the content of the mini game a comment input window to provide challenge comment a user identifier window of the user accessing the mini game that is posted for sharing or creating the mini game for sharing a mini game video view icon five mini game play video view icons to view the mini game play videos generated by other users that accepted the challenge a share button for sharing mini game e.g. with other users who are network friends of user A a recommendation button for recommending mini game a rate icon and a mouse cursor .

In one embodiment user A may simply view the shared mini game by clicking mini game view icon . In response to the user activity of clicking the video segment of the mini game is rendered at a display of the user device . During the view of video segment or after the view of the video segment of the mini game user A may play an executable version of the mini game by pushing play button . If mini game gets a lot of plays either due to popularity or by sharing the mini game may get a history of plays. The history of plays for mini game will be represented by the mini game play video MGPVs . In this embodiment the history of plays is rendered in a compact form. In another embodiment the history may be rendered in an expanded form as will be described with reference to . In one embodiment the player and the playing score of a created mini game play video are shown to the right of the mini game play video . In another embodiment the player and the challengee counter may be shown to the right of the mini game play video . A user may wish to view the prior plays generated by other users by clicking the corresponding mini game play video view icon .

User A can also share mini game with his or her social network friends or recommend mini game by pushing share button and recommendation button respectively. User comments for mini game e.g. Good Game may be entered in comment input window . In one embodiment the user recommendations and sharing and the user comments entered for mini game the number of times mini game is viewed or played and the number of mini game play videos created based on the execution of mini game will be recorded in a mini game data profile stored in mini game data store and or in user data profile stored in game network user store of game cloud system as shown in .

All or some of the data collected from the sharing such as plays sharing with others sharing on social sites rate of sharing number of recommendations actual ratings etc. can be used to generate a ranking score. The ranking score can be used to promote the mini game and encourage additional sharing or play. Games that are higher ranked can earn rewards to the creator and can also provide a higher rating to the user and better status for the user that created the higher ranked mini games.

In one embodiment the game manufacturer of the original game title based on which mini game is created may identify the users who frequently play the shared mini game and the users who got high play scores and send target messages notifications emails and or advertisements to those identified users. In this example Bob has played the shared mini game three times with decent scores. Thus the game manufacturer may send a message to Bob to advertise the original game title and offer purchase discount. Alternatively if mini game is a very popular shared mini game in the cloud the game manufacturer may study the video frames and the actions associated with mini game and create new games that include video frames and actions similar to the ones in mini game . Similarly when a video clip posted by a particular user becomes popular amongst the other users the game manufacturer game retailer may provide incentives for the particular user encouraging the particular user to generate more of such video clips for the selected game or for other available games.

Additionally the game score achieved during game play of the mini game may also be posted with the mini game. The number of users responding to the challenge is accumulated in the challengee counter by a metric accumulator and the same is updated to the mini game data store and game network data store for computing additional game and or user metrics. Similarly number of users sharing the mini game is accumulated under share metric and the rating information provided by the users are updated to the mini game data store and game network user data store within the GCS . Similar concept may be extended to the sharing of the video clip wherein user interactions at the video clip are captured by the metric accumulator and used to update the user metrics the video clip metrics associated with the game and the game metrics of the game. The metric accumulator uses these different metrics to determine additional user metrics such as the popularity of the user the relative ranking of the user the status of the user and additional game metrics such as the popularity of the mini games the ranking of the mini games etc.

The game metrics and user metrics are used to rank and order the mini games when presenting the mini games in the webpage of the game network or the social network with higher ranked mini games and users being presented prominently at the top and lower ranked ones in the bottom. These relative rankings are also used to promote the full games additional games by game developers and for targeting advertisements and or promotional media by advertisers or game developers.

The various embodiments provide a way to manage games within a game network by providing access to portions of games video clips to users to generate interest in the game and to encourage the users to play the portions of the games and get engaged or view the portions of the game within the video clips to generate sufficient interest in the game. By providing access to mini games video clips users are given a sample preview of the various content of the game leading to the users potentially buying the game. The mini games video clips give a view to the content and challenges of the game and a sampling of actual users game play without overwhelming the users with a full blown game. Additionally by making the games more interactive and by allowing the users to generate their own mini games for sharing with other users the game developers owners make it interesting for the users and keep the users more engaged. Other advantages will become apparent to one skilled in the art.

At operation a request is received from a first user to access an account managed by the game cloud system. The user access may be in the form of a user authentication module that authenticates a user before access to the user account can be provided to the user. In response to successful authentication of the user a plurality of games that are stored in a cloud is provided in a user interface as illustrated in operation . The games that are provided are the ones that are available for the user account. Game play of any one of the games presented in the user interface is enabled and a video is generated capturing a recording of user activities associated with a game play for a first game selected by a first user as illustrated in operation . The recorded game play is for the full game played by the first user.

During the game play or after the game play a selection of a portion of the recorded video is received from the first user as illustrated in operation . The selection causes a game processor module executing on the game cloud system to generate a mini game. The mini game generated by the game processor module includes a recorded video for the portion of the game defined within the mini game and an executable portion for the mini game. In one embodiment control information provided within the user interface will enable the first user to define a starting frame and an ending frame of the video to define the portion of the mini game and the game processor module uses the frame pointer to identify the executable code that encompasses the portion of the mini game.

A request to share the mini game is received from the first user as illustrated in operation . The request to share may be provided through user activity at a share option or a post option provided at the user interface. The share request received at the game processor module causes the game processor module to post the mini game to a website to enable other users to view the portion of the recorded video and play the executable portion of the mini game. The request also includes a challenge comment that is to be posted along with the mini game to the website. The challenge comment is provided by the first user.

In response to the request the game processor posts the mini game along with the challenge comment to the website as illustrated in operation . The mini game with the challenge comment may be posted to one or more social networks associated with the first user in a social stream or newsfeed to enable the friends and social contacts of the first user to accept the challenge and play the mini game. Alternately or in addition to posting to the social network the mini game with the challenge comment may be posted to the game network for users of the game network to view the video and play the mini game.

One or more game plays from different users that access the mini game posted on the website are received and stored as mini game play videos in the game system as illustrated in operation . The stored mini game play videos may include response comments for the challenge comment. The stored mini game play videos are associated with the original post of the mini game so that when other users access the mini game posted on the website the recorded video of the mini game and the one or more mini game play videos are rendered alongside the mini game post. In addition to the recorded video and mini game play videos challenge comment and any response comments may also be stored with the mini game and rendered alongside the mini game for other users to view. The mini game play videos may be accessed by any user playing the mini game.

During the game play or after the game play a share request to share the recorded video of the game play is received from the first user as illustrated in operation . The share request includes a location indicator identifying a location within the recorded video which is to be used to generate a video clip of the recorded video.

The share request causes a game processor module executing on the game cloud system to generate a video clip from the recorded video of the game play of the first user in response to the share request as illustrated in operation . The video clip includes a portion of the recorded video for a pre defined length or user defined length in relation to the location indicator identified in the share request. The location indicator in the share request may identify a starting location of recorded video an ending location of recorded video or portions of the recorded video before and after the location indicator for inclusion in the video clip.

The generated video clip is shared with one or more users based on information provided in the share request as illustrated in operation . The share request received at the game processor module causes the game processor module to post the video clip to a website to enable other users to view the portion of the recorded video reflecting the user s game play for the selected game. The video clip of a portion of the game play may be posted to one or more social networks associated with the first user in a social stream or newsfeed to enable the friends and social contacts of the first user to view the portion of the game play included in the video clip. Alternately or in addition to posting to the social network the video clip may be posted to the game network or retailer s website for users of the game network retailer to view the video clip of the game. The video clip provides a sample view of the content contained within the game.

The various embodiments described herein enable users to present a sample view of the challenges contents of a video game available in the game cloud system by allowing the users to share a video clip of their actual game play. The video clips generated by users may also be used by the developers and or owners retailers of the game as a promotional tool to promote the game and to entice users to buy the game. The owners retailers may provide compensation to the users based on quality of the video clips so as to encourage users to generate more of such video clips. The sharing of the video clips enables the users to enhance their position reputation within the gaming community thereby providing an enriched gaming experience to the users. Other advantages may become apparent to one skilled in the art after viewing the various embodiments.

In one embodiment the game cloud system is configured to detect the type of client device associated with the user and also a type of controller available for the user to provide input to the cloud based video game. For example in one embodiment when a user logs in to the game cloud system they may be presented with an option to designate the type of client device with which they are accessing the game cloud system. In one embodiment a series of client device options are presented from which the user may select one corresponding to their client device. The user may also be presented with an option to designate the type of controller device they will use to play a video game. In one embodiment a series of controller options can be presented to the user from which the user may select to designate a controller type corresponding to their controller hardware. In other embodiments the game cloud system can be configured to automatically detect the client device type and or the controller device type.

For example at the time of login the client device may send information to the cloud gaming server identifying itself as well as a connected controller device e.g. in response to a request from the cloud gaming server . Based on this information the game cloud server may determine an appropriate video game output configuration and input parameter configuration to provide a gaming experience optimized for the user s client device and controller device. In one embodiment a look up table is employed to determine video game configuration and input parameter configuration based on a detected client device and a detected controller device.

It should be appreciated that a given video game may be developed for a specific platform and a specific associated controller device. However when such a game is made available via a game cloud system as presented herein the user may be accessing the video game with a different controller device. For example a game might have been developed for a game console and its associated controller whereas the user might be accessing a cloud based version of the game from a personal computer utilizing a keyboard and mouse. In such a scenario the input parameter configuration can define a mapping from inputs which can be generated by the user s available controller device in this case a keyboard and mouse to inputs which are acceptable for the execution of the video game.

In another example a user may access the cloud gaming system via a tablet computing device a touchscreen smartphone or other touchscreen driven device. In this case the client device and the controller device are integrated together in the same device with inputs being provided by way of detected touchscreen inputs gestures. For such a device the input parameter configuration may define particular touchscreen inputs corresponding to game inputs for the video game. For example buttons a directional pad or other types of input elements might be displayed or overlaid during running of the video game to indicate locations on the touchscreen that the user can touch to generate a game input. Gestures such as swipes in particular directions or specific touch motions may also be detected as game inputs. In one embodiment a tutorial can be provided to the user indicating how to provide input via the touchscreen for gameplay e.g. prior to beginning gameplay of the video game so as to acclimate the user to the operation of the controls on the touchscreen.

In some embodiments the client device serves as the connection point for a controller device. That is the controller device communicates via a wireless or wired connection with the client device to transmit inputs from the controller device to the client device. The client device may in turn process these inputs and then transmit input data to the cloud game server via a network e.g. accessed via a local networking device such as a router . However in other embodiments the controller can itself be a networked device with the ability to communicate inputs directly via the network to the cloud game server without being required to communicate such inputs through the client device first. For example the controller might connect to a local networking device such as the aforementioned router to send to and receive data from the cloud game server. Thus while the client device may still be required to receive video output from the cloud based video game and render it on a local display input latency can be reduced by allowing the controller to send inputs directly over the network to the cloud game server bypassing the client device.

In one embodiment a networked controller and client device can be configured to send certain types of inputs directly from the controller to the cloud game server and other types of inputs via the client device. For example inputs whose detection does not depend on any additional hardware or processing apart from the controller itself can be sent directly from the controller to the cloud game server via the network bypassing the client device. Such inputs may include button inputs joystick inputs embedded motion detection inputs e.g. accelerometer magnetometer gyroscope etc. However inputs that utilize additional hardware or require processing by the client device can be sent by the client device to the cloud game server. These might include captured video or audio from the game environment that may be processed by the client device before sending to the cloud game server. Additionally inputs from motion detection hardware of the controller might be processed by the client device in conjunction with captured video to detect the position and motion of the controller which would subsequently be communicated by the client device to the cloud game server. It should be appreciated that the controller device in accordance with various embodiments may also receive data e.g. feedback data from the client device or directly from the cloud gaming server.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention can employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purpose or the apparatus can be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines can be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can include computer readable tangible medium distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although the method operations were described in a specific order it should be understood that other housekeeping operations may be performed in between operations or operations may be adjusted so that they occur at slightly different times or may be distributed in a system which allows the occurrence of the processing operations at various intervals associated with the processing as long as the processing of the overlay operations are performed in the desired way.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

