---

title: Streamlined provisioning and configuration of computing devices
abstract: Methods and systems for provisioning a computing device are provided. An example method may include receiving, by a computing device, information indicating a uniform resource identifier (URI) and a wireless access point configured to allow the computing device to connect to a wireless network to enable the computing device to access the URI. The method may also include downloading, onto the computing device, a provisioning software application from the URI. The method may also include executing the provisioning software application on the computing device, wherein the provisioning software application is configured to provision the computing device such that the provisioned computing device is configured to operate in a limited function mode. The method may also include locking the provisioned computing device to prevent changes to the limited function mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08886933&OS=08886933&RS=08886933
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08886933
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131217
---
Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Computing devices such as personal computers laptop computers tablet computers cellular phones among many other types of computing devices are increasingly prevalent in numerous aspects of modern life. Such computing devices may be provisioned during setup with a particular set of functionality. An organization may desire to quickly provision multiple computing devices with a particular set of functionality and lock the provisioned computing device to that particular set of functionality.

In one example a method for provisioning a computing device is described. The method may include receiving by a computing device information indicating a uniform resource identifier URI and a wireless access point configured to allow the computing device to connect to a wireless network to enable the computing device to access the URI. The method may also include downloading onto the computing device a provisioning software application from the URI. The method may also include executing the provisioning software application on the computing device wherein the provisioning software application is configured to provision the computing device such that the provisioned computing device is configured to operate in a limited function mode. The limited function mode may comprise at least a list of software applications allowed on the computing device restricting a functionality of one or more software applications on the computing device and preventing a removal of one or more software applications on the computing device. The method may also include locking the provisioned computing device to prevent changes to the limited function mode.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory having stored therein instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions is described. The functions may include receiving information indicating a uniform resource identifier URI and a wireless access point configured to allow the computing device to connect to a wireless network to enable the computing device to access the URI. The functions may also include downloading a provisioning software application from the URI. The functions may also include executing the provisioning software application wherein the provisioning software application is configured to provision the computing device such that the provisioned computing device is configured to operate in a limited function mode. The limited function mode may comprise at least a list of software applications allowed on the computing device restricting a functionality of one or more software applications on the computing device and preventing a removal of one or more software applications on the computing device. The functions may also include locking the provisioned computing device to prevent changes to the limited function mode.

In another embodiment a system is described. The system may include one or more processors and data storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the system to perform functions. The functions may include receiving information indicating a uniform resource identifier URI and a wireless access point configured to allow the computing device to connect to a wireless network to enable the computing device to access the URI. The functions may also include downloading a provisioning software application from the URI. The functions may also include executing the provisioning software application wherein the provisioning software application is configured to provision the system such that the provisioned computing device is configured to operate in a limited function mode. The limited function mode may comprise at least a list of software applications allowed on the computing device restricting a functionality of one or more software applications on the computing device and preventing a removal of one or more software applications on the computing device. The functions may also include locking the provisioned computing device to prevent changes to the limited function mode.

In yet another example a system is provided that includes a means for receiving by a computing device information indicating a uniform resource identifier URI and a wireless access point configured to allow the computing device to connect to a wireless network to enable the computing device to access the URI. The system also includes a means for downloading onto the computing device a provisioning software application from the URI. The system also includes a means for executing the provisioning software application on the computing device wherein the provisioning software application is configured to provision the computing device such that the provisioned computing device is configured to operate in a limited function mode. The limited function mode may comprise at least a list of software applications allowed on the computing device restricting a functionality of one or more software applications on the computing device and preventing a removal of one or more software applications on the computing device. The system also includes a means for locking the provisioned computing device to prevent changes to the limited function mode.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying figures.

The following detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures similar symbols identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative system and method embodiments described herein are not meant to be limiting. It may be readily understood that certain aspects of the disclosed systems and methods can be arranged and combined in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are contemplated herein.

Computing devices such as personal computers laptop computers tablet computers cellular phones among many other types of computing devices are increasingly prevalent in numerous aspects of modern life. An organization may desire to provision a computing device with a particular set of functionality and lock the provisioned computing device to that particular set of functionality. For example an internet caf may desire to have a tablet computer available for use by its customers. However the internet caf may not want its customers to be able to add any software applications on the tablet or reconfigure the tablet in any way. In another example a company may provide cellular phones to all of its employees. The company may desire to provision multiple cellular phones with particular software applications or limit the functionality of the cellular phone to a particular use case. Therefore a method and system for configuring a computing device in a limited function mode and locking the computing device to prevent changes to the limited function mode may be desirable.

Thus within examples herein a method is provided for provisioning a computing device that includes receiving by the computing device information indicating a uniform resource identifier URI and a wireless access point configured to allow the computing device to connect to a wireless network to enable the computing device to access the URI. The method may then include downloading onto the computing device a provisioning software application from the URI. Next the method may include executing the provisioning software application on the computing device wherein the provisioning software application is configured to provision the computing device such that the provisioned computing device is configured to operate in a limited function mode. The limited function mode may comprise a list of software applications allowed on the computing device restricting a functionality of one or more software applications on the computing device and preventing a removal of one or more software applications on the computing device as examples. The method may then include locking the provisioned computing device to prevent changes to the limited function mode.

It should be understood that the above examples are provided for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting. As such the method additionally or alternatively includes other steps or includes fewer steps without departing from the scope of the invention.

Referring now to the figures illustrates an example communication system by which an example method may be implemented. The system includes a computing device that may communicate with a server via one or more wired and or wireless interfaces. The computing device and the server may communicate within a network. Alternatively the computing device and the server may each reside within a respective network.

The computing device may be any type of computing device or transmitter including a laptop computer a mobile telephone or tablet computing device etc. that is configured to transmit data to or receive data from the server in accordance with the method and functions described herein. The computing device may include a user interface a communication interface a processor and data storage comprising instructions executable by the processor for carrying out one or more functions relating to the data sent to or received by the server . The user interface may include buttons a touchscreen a microphone and or any other elements for receiving inputs as well as a speaker one or more displays and or any other elements for communicating outputs.

The server may be any entity or computing device arranged to carry out the method and computing device functions described herein. Server may include the same components as computing device . Further the server may be configured to send data to or receive data from the computing device . The server may have a database module configured to store a number of applications music electronic books etc. for purchase and or download by various computing devices. The database module may thus include a digital distribution platform for applications online electronic data or other digital media.

The data received by the server from the computing device may take various forms. For example the computing device may request applications to be downloaded from the server . The data sent to the computing device from the server may also take various forms. For example the server may send to the computing device any requested applications system libraries updates to operating systems etc.

Each of the applications and may include instructions that when executed cause the computing device to perform specific tasks or functions. Applications and may be native applications i.e. installed by a manufacturer of the computing device and or a manufacturer of the operating system or may be a third party application installed by a user of the computing device after purchasing the computing device. A non exhaustive list of example applications includes a media player application that accepts media files as inputs and generates corresponding video and or audio to the output device s an e reader application which accepts electronic documents books magazines etc. as input and presents the content of the document via the output device s a feed reader that accepts feeds delivered over the Internet e.g. RSS feeds and or feeds from social network sites as input and presents the feeds via the output device s a map application that displays a map via the output device s a note taking application a bookmarking application and a word processing spreadsheet and or presentation application that accepts specifically formatted files as inputs and presents them via the output devices for viewing and or editing.

The operating system may interact with and manage hardware to provide services for the applications and . For example an application may request that the operating system direct an integrated camera of hardware to capture a visual image and that the hardware store the image to memory.

The hardware may include for example a central processing unit CPU a graphics processor GPU memory an input output I O interface user input device s output device s or other sensors. Components of hardware may be controlled by instructions contained in applications and and operating system .

The central processing unit CPU may be operable to effectuate the operation of the computing device by executing instructions stored in memory or disk storage. Such instructions may include the operating system and the applications and . The CPU may for example comprise a single or multi core processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA and or any other suitable circuitry.

The graphics processor may be operable to generate a video stream for output to the screen based on instructions and or data received from the CPU. That is data structures corresponding to images to be displayed on the screen may be stored to and read from the memory or disk storage by the CPU. The CPU may convey such data structures to the graphics processor via a standardized application programming interface API such as for example Standard Widget Toolkit SWT the DirectX Video Acceleration API the Video Decode Acceleration Framework API or other suitable API.

The memory may include program memory and run time memory. The memory may for example comprise non volatile memory volatile memory read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory magnetic storage and or any other suitable memory which may be non transitory media . Program memory may store instructions executable by the CPU to effectuate operation of the operating system and the applications and . Runtime memory may store data generated or used during execution of the operating system or applications and

The input output I O interface may be operable to receive signals from the input device s and provide corresponding signals to the CPU and or the graphics processor for example.

The input device s may include for example a mouse a touchpad a motion sensor a trackball a voice recognition device a keyboard or any other suitable input device which enables a user to interact with the computing device .

The output devices may include for example a screen and speakers. The screen may be for example a liquid crystal display LCD screen an organic light emitting diode OLED screen an e ink screen and or any other suitable device for presenting a graphical user interface.

The kernel may include drivers that enable software such as the operating system and applications to interact with input output devices. The kernel may also include power management processes that coordinate hardware power usage and provide alerts when an integrated battery is running low on power for example.

The libraries may include several subcomponents such as media framework graphics library and OpenGL ES . The media framework may include functionality that supports standard video audio and still frame formats. The graphics library may support two dimensional application drawing. The OpenGL ES may support gaming and three dimensional graphics rendering.

The operating system runtime may include core libraries and virtual machines . The virtual machines may be custom virtual machines that run a customized file format. The virtual machines may be used with an embedded environment since the virtual machines use runtime memory efficiently implement a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and support multiple virtual machine processes per device.

The application libraries may include libraries for view system resource manager and content providers . These application libraries may provide support for applications .

The applications may include any number of applications such as a dialer messaging and a browser . The dialer may provide functionality related to placing or receiving phone calls. The messaging may provide functionality related to receiving and sending messages such as email voice mail or text messages. The browser may provide functionality related to sending or receiving information via the world wide web.

The system services may include status bar application launcher and package manager . The status bar may provide functionality related to providing system notifications. The application launcher may provide functionality related to organization and execution of applications . The package manager may maintain information for installed applications .

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include a non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium a tangible storage device or other article of manufacture for example. The program code or data for the code may also be stored or provided on other media including communication media such as a wireless communication media for example.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process. Functions of the method may be fully performed by a computing device or may be distributed across multiple computing devices and or a server e.g. as shown in . The computing device may have an operating system such as the operating system in and the computing device may also have a system library accessible by the operating system. Other example configurations of the computing device are also possible for performing the method in .

At block the method includes receiving by a computing device information indicating a uniform resource identifier URI and a wireless access point configured to allow the computing device to connect to a wireless network to enable the computing device to access the URI. The URI is a specific character string that constitutes a reference to a resource. URIs can be classified as locators URLs as names URNs or as both. The wireless access point enables the computing device to connect to a wireless network using WI FI BLUETOOTH or related standards. In one example the information indicating a wireless access point includes an authentication key configured to establish a secure connection between the computing device and the wireless network. Other examples are possible as well. The computing device may receive the information from a programming device such as through near field communication NFC .

At block the method includes downloading onto the computing device a provisioning software application from the URI. As discussed in more detail below the provisioning software application is configured to provision the computing device with a set functionality.

At block the method includes executing the provisioning software application on the computing device wherein the provisioning software application is configured to provision the computing device such that the provisioned computing device is configured to operate in a limited function mode. The limited function mode is configured to restrict the functionality of the computing device to a particular set of functions based on the instructions in the provisioning software application. In one example the computing device may further receive a checksum. The checksum may include a count of the number of bits and the value of the bits in the provisioning software application as a hashing function. The computing device may then be configured to use the hashing function to compare the count and value of the bits to the bits in the provisioning software application downloaded from the URI. If the number and value of bits in the provisioning software application downloaded from the URI does not match those provided in the checksum the computing device may display an error message on the computing device indicating that the downloaded provisioning software application did not download properly.

In one embodiment the limited function mode may include a list of software applications allowed on the computing device. In such an example once the computing device is provisioned by the provisioning software application a user could only add software applications to the computing device that are included in the list of software applications allowed on the computing device. As a specific example the limited function mode of the provisioned computing device includes a whitelist of allowed software applications. When a user attempts to download a particular software application the computing device compares that software application to the whitelist. If the particular software application is listed in the whitelist the computing device may download that software application. However if the particular software application is not listed in the whitelist the computing device may display an error message or otherwise refuse to download that software application.

In another embodiment the limited function mode may include restricting a functionality of one or more software applications on the computing device. For example a computing device may be on display at a store for potential customers to examine before purchasing. The store may want potential customers to be able to browse the internet on the computing device via a browser application. However the store may not want potential customers to save login information or change any default settings of the browser application. Therefore the limited function mode may restrict the functionality of the browser application so that when a first potential customer is finished using the browser application a second potential customer can use the browser application in the same condition as the first potential customer. Other examples are possible as well.

In yet another embodiment the limited function mode may include preventing the removal of one or more software applications on the computing device. In such an example the provisioning software application may be configured to install a plurality of software applications on the computing device. As a specific example the provisioning software application may be configured to access one or more URIs to download the plurality of software applications for execution in the limited function mode. In another example the limited function mode may include preventing adding any additional software applications to the plurality of software applications installed on the computing device.

In yet another embodiment the limited function mode may include preventing a factory reset of the computing device. As a specific example a company may provide a cellular phone to its employees. The cellular phone may be provisioned using the provisioning software application and may be configured to operate in a limited function mode as discussed above. In such an example preventing a factory reset of the computing device may prevent an employee from taking the cellular phone home and resetting the device to remove the limited function mode. By preventing a factory reset of the computing device the provisioning software application cannot be removed from the computing device thereby preserving the desired limited function mode.

In yet another embodiment the provisioned computing device may include a certificate configured to grant the computing device access to a wireless access point. As a specific example the provisioned computing device may include a certificate for access to one or more internal networks at an organization. In another embodiment the provisioned computing device may include additional information relevant to the particular use case of the device. For example a cellular phone for use by an employee to a company may include a contact list including telephone numbers and email address of all other employees of that company. Other examples are possible as well.

As discussed above there are several different arrangements possible for the provisioned computing device depending on the particular use case for that device. As such the provisioning software application may be configured to be created and or edited by third parties to create their individual use case. In one example the provisioning software application may be provided to a user with options for the limited function mode and options for applications to include in the provisioned computing device. For example a company may determine that they want the provisioned computing device they provide to their employees to have certain software applications installed on the device along with a certificate to access the company s internal network the company wants certain software applications to have reduced functionality on the computing device and the company wants to only allow certain software applications to be downloaded onto the computing device. The company may select those features in the provisioning software application and then install the provisioning software application on a plurality of computing devices using the steps described above so that each device has the same functionality.

At block the method includes locking the provisioned computing device to prevent changes to the limited function mode. This may be advantageous in an example where a computing device is on display at a store for potential customers to examine before purchasing. By locking the provisioned computing device and preserving the limited function mode when a first potential customer is finished using the computing device a second potential customer can use the computing device in the same condition as the first potential customer. Other examples are possible as well.

Using the example method a programmer may use a programming device to provide the URI and wireless access point information to the computing device and the computing device may then responsively access the URI download the provisioning software application execute the provisioning software application and effectively perform a self setup to enable the computing device to operate in a limited function mode. The method may be useful in example scenarios where many computing devices are provisioned.

If the computing device is in an unprovisioned state the method continues at block of method . The remaining functions of method may then be performed to provision the computing device such that the provisioned computing device is configured to operate in a limited function mode. On the other hand if the computing device is in a provisioned state the method continues at block with requesting a reset of the computing device. The reset may be configured to return the computing device to an unprovisioned state. If a user accepts the request to reset the computing device the method continues at block of method . The remaining functions of method may then be performed to provision the computing device such that the provisioned computing device is configured to operate in a limited function mode.

As illustrated in an example system may include a computing device coupled to a programming device via a coupling mechanism . In one example the coupling mechanism may be near field communication NFC . In another example the coupling mechanism may be or include a WI FI or BLUETOOTH connection. In yet another example the coupling mechanism may be a USB cable. Other potential coupling mechanisms are possible as well.

Once the computing device is coupled to the programming device via the coupling mechanism the programming device may push a payload onto the computing device . The payload may include information indicating a URI and a wireless access point configured to connect the computing device to the URI. The URI is a specific character string that constitutes a reference to a resource such as a provisioning software application . The wireless access point enables the computing device to connect to a wireless network via a wireless interface such as WI FI BLUETOOTH or related standards. In one example the information indicating a wireless access point includes an authentication key configured to establish a secure connection between the computing device and the wireless network.

The computing device may then be configured to download the provisioning software application from the URI. The computing device may then be configured to execute the provisioning software application on the computing device . The provisioning software application may be configured to provision the computing device such that the provisioned computing device is configured to operate in a limited function mode. The computing device may then lock the provisioned computing device to prevent changes to the limited function mode as discussed above.

In one example the payload may also include a checksum. The checksum may include a count of the number of bits and the value of the bits in the provisioning software application as a hashing function. The computing device may then be configured to use the hashing function to compare the count and value of the bits to the bits in the provisioning software application downloaded from the URI. If the number and value of bits in the provisioning software application downloaded from the URI does not match those provided in the checksum the computing device may display an error message on the computing device indicating that the downloaded provisioning software application did not download properly.

As noted above in some embodiments the disclosed methods can be implemented by computer program instructions encoded on a non transitory computer readable storage media in a machine readable format or on other non transitory media or articles of manufacture. is a schematic illustrating a conceptual partial view of an example computer program product that includes a computer program for executing a computer process on a computing device arranged according to at least some embodiments presented herein.

In one embodiment the example computer program product is provided using a signal bearing medium . The signal bearing medium may include one or more programming instructions that when executed by one or more processors may provide functionality or portions of the functionality described above with respect to . In some examples the signal bearing medium can be a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium can be a computer recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium can be a communications medium such as but not limited to a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example the signal bearing medium can be conveyed by a wireless form of the communications medium .

The one or more programming instructions can be for example computer executable and or logic implemented instructions. In some examples a computing device such as the computing device described above in relation to is configured to provide various operations functions or actions in response to the programming instructions conveyed to the computing device by one or more of the computer readable medium the computer recordable medium and or the communications medium .

The non transitory computer readable medium could also be distributed among multiple data storage elements which could be remotely located from each other. The device that executes some or all of the stored instructions could be a client side computing device as illustrated in . Alternatively the device that executes some or all of the stored instructions could be a server side computing device .

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location or other structural elements described as independent structures may be combined.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

