---

title: Connect social networking users who simultaneously check-in at a geolocation
abstract: Configurations are provided for suggesting one or more other users within a same or proximate geolocation to enable the user to engage in activities with these suggested users. When the user performs a check-in for a new or different geolocation in an online social networking service, the subject technology can suggest other users who have recently checked-in and/or changed their location to the same place or region. The subject technology can sort one or more suggested users based on geographic proximity, how recently the user checked-in, a distance from the user, and other criteria (e.g., interests, demographic information (e.g., gender, age, etc.), social networking profile, etc.). The suggested users are selected, in one example, to identify one or more users that are typically not in the same place or geolocation but have newly arrived here. The subject technology can prioritize the selection of suggested users based on different criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09373148&OS=09373148&RS=09373148
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09373148
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130802
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 679 585 entitled CONNECT SOCIAL NETWORKING USERS WHO SIMULTANEOUSLY CHECK IN AT A GEOLOCATION filed on Aug. 3 2012 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The subject technology provides for suggesting one or more users based at least on geolocation information of a user. The subject technology determines a geolocation of a first user. One or more users are then determined within a predetermined proximity of the determined geolocation of the first user. The subject technology then determines a subset of the determined one or more users that had within a predetermined period of time a previous geolocation that is different than the determined geolocation of the first user. Further the determined subset of one or more users are provided for display.

Yet another aspect of the subject technology provides a system for suggesting one or more users based at least on geolocation information of a user. The system includes memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. The system includes a geolocation module configured to determine a geolocation of a first user determine one or more users within a predetermined proximity of the determined geolocation of the first user determine a subset of the determined one or more users that had within a predetermined period of time a previous geolocation that is different than the determined geolocation of the first user. The system further includes a scoring module configured to determine respective affinity scores for the determined subset of one or more users in which each respective affinity score is based one or more attributes and sort the determined subset of one or more users according to the determined respective affinity scores. Further the system includes a graphical user interface GUI display module configured to provide for display the sorted subset of one or more users.

The subject technology further provides for determining a geolocation of a first user. The subject technology determines one or more users within a predetermined proximity of the determined geolocation of the first user. Next the subject technology determines a subset of the determined one or more users that had within a predetermined period of time a previous geolocation that is different than the determined geolocation of the first user. Respective affinity scores are then determined for the determined subset of one or more users in which each respective affinity score is based one or more attributes. The subject technology sorts the determined subset of one or more users according to the determined respective affinity scores. Additionally the sorted subset of one or more users are provided for display.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it will be clear and apparent to those skilled in the art that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

When traveling domestically or abroad it can be difficult to meet fellow travelers especially those traveling in the same place at the same time. Finding other travelers typically makes for a more fun experience especially for solo travelers and provides the opportunity to see tourist attractions with others who have not already seen them as opposed to city locals . In a given social network a user can opt in to have his or her geolocation information stored based a current geolocation of the user and or check in activity of the user into a new place or geolocation. For instance the user can carry a mobile device e.g. cell phone smartphone tablet computer etc. that provides one or more different signals e.g. GPS Wi Fi 3G or 4G radio etc. for determining the geolocation of the mobile device. The user s geolocation therefore can be derived based on the determined geolocation of the mobile device and or the user s check in activity.

The subject technology provides for suggesting one or more other users within a same or proximate geolocation to enable the user to engage in one or more activities with these suggested users. When the user performs a check in for a new or different geolocation in an online social networking service the subject technology can suggest other users who have recently checked in and or changed their location to the same place or region. As used herein the term check in refers to user activity that allows the user to share his or her current location to other users in the online social network. In the context of an online social networking service or simply social network the user s check in activity includes the user s geolocation data.

The subject technology can sort one or more suggested users based on geographic proximity how recently the user checked in a distance from the user and other criteria e.g. interests demographic information e.g. gender age etc. social networking profile etc. . The suggested users are selected in one example to identify one or more users that are typically not in the same place or geolocation but have newly arrived here. This is different than identifying users that have started checking in to the same or similar geolocation e.g. new users to minimize the number of false positives e.g. to filter out one or more users that are local to the geolocation rather than a traveler or tourist . Additionally the subject technology can prioritize selection of the suggested users based on a previous geolocation of the suggested users with respect to a previous geolocation of the user. By way of example the subject technology can determine that the user s previous geolocation was in a particular city e.g. New York and identify one or more suggested users with a previous geolocation in the same city. The subject technology can prioritize the selection of suggested users based on other criteria and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

In one example the subject technology can provide a widget that is integrated into a given social networking service for displaying the suggested users. The widget could be further integrated within an electronic map to show the suggested users in a map view in order to show the distance of the suggested users from the user. Further the subject technology can be provided on various clients e.g. desktop or laptop computers mobile devices tablet computers etc. .

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by a content server. Moreover as described herein demographic related data may be aggregated for one or more groups of users so that an individual user s is not personally identifiable.

The process begins at by determining a geolocation of a first user. In some configurations determining the geolocation the first user is responsive to check in activity of the first user. As used herein the term check in refers to user activity that allows the user to share his or her current location to other users in the online social network. In the context of an online social networking service or simply social network the user s check in activity includes the user s geolocation data. For instance the check in activity of the first user includes geolocation information of the first user in an online social network. By way of example the geolocation information is associated with one of an identified place a point of interest a business an airport a metropolitan area a neighborhood a municipality and a tourist attraction. Other associations to the geolocation can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

The process at determines if the determined geolocation of the first user is in a different geolocation than the previous geolocation of the first user. The different geolocation is based at least on one of a country city county postal code or predetermined distance. In some configurations the previous geolocation of the first user comprises a last shared geolocation of the first user

The process at determines one or more users within a predetermined proximity of the determined geolocation of the first user. The predetermined proximity is based on a distance threshold from the determined geolocation of the user in some configurations. In one example the process determines the one or more users within the predetermined proximity of the determined geolocation of the first user responsive to a respective check in activity of the one or more users.

The process at determines a subset of the determined one or more users that had within a predetermined period of time a previous geolocation that is different than the determined geolocation of the first user. The determination at reduces an amount of users that are considered false positives that refer to users that are local users and not traveling users or tourists. For instance the predetermined period of time is a duration of time or time period that the process utilizes to determine one or more users with a previous geolocation that is different than the geolocation of the first user.

The process at determines a second subset of users from the determined subset of one or more users that at least has a previous geolocation that matches a previous geolocation of the first user. In some configurations the process performs the operations at to further filter one or more suggested users. By way of example users that match the previous geolocation of the first user can indicate that these users are from the same originating locale e.g. home town as the first user.

The process at provides for display the determined subset of one or more users. In some configurations providing for display of the subset of the determined one or more users is accomplished by generating an electronic map for display with one or more respective graphical representations of the determined subset of one or more users. An example graphical user interface GUI for displaying one or more suggested user is described in further detail in . The process then ends.

The process begins at by determining respective affinity scores for the determined subset of one or more users. Each respective affinity score is based one or more attributes. In one example the one or more attributes at least includes demographic information of the one or more users. For instance the demographic information includes at least one of name gender ethnicity age occupation education country of origin and geographic location. Further the one or more attributes include at least one of a user interest hobby and activity.

The process at sorts the determined subset of one or more users according to the determined respective affinity scores. The process at provides for display the sorted subset of one or more users. An example graphical user interface for displaying the sorted subset of one or more users is described in further detail in . The process then ends.

As illustrated in the GUI includes a widget including display areas and . As used herein the term widget refers to a lightweight application e.g. lightweight in comparison to a full application suite or software package providing a GUI that includes one or more graphical elements used to provide a specific application. In the example GUI the display area includes a graphical representation e.g. an avatar profile image icon etc. for a user shown as Tammie Tourist . In one example the user is a member of an online social networking service and opts in to sharing geolocation information.

One or more suggested users are displayed in the GUI in the display areas and . The suggested users are provided according to the processes and respectively described in . Different graphical representations and corresponding to the suggested users are provided in the display areas and . Each of the display areas and include a respective user s name a distance indicator from a current geolocation of the user and a time indicator showing an period of time that has elapsed since the respective user s geolocation was determined. Additionally the suggested users can he sorted according to different attributes as described by reference to above.

Each of the display areas and includes a set of graphical elements e.g. buttons icons etc. for activating different functionality in some configurations. For instance as shown in the display area a graphical element upon selection via user input provides for adding a contact represented by the graphical representation . A graphical element upon a selection input provides for activating an instant messaging or chat session with the contact represented by the graphical representation . A graphical element upon selection input provides for activating functionality for sending an e mail message to the contact represented by the graphical representation . Further a graphical element upon a selection input provides for activating a video chat or conferencing session with the contact represented by the graphical representation . Other types of functionality can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

The GUI includes an electronic map that provides for display map location points and that respectively correspond to the users shown in the graphical representations and . Additionally the suggested users are provided according to a predetermined proximity defined by circle e.g. a distance threshold . In one example the circle is user selectable to increase or decrease the distance threshold in which one or more suggested users are provided.

Although the example GUI in includes four suggested users any number of suggested users can be included in the GUI and still be within the scope of the subject technology. As further shown in the GUI a graphical element e.g. button etc. is provided by the GUI in order to display one or more additional suggested users.

Additionally although the above description of includes different example graphical elements in the GUI some implementations can include other graphical elements in the GUI and still be within the scope of the subject technology. Further the GUI is not required to include all of the aforementioned graphical elements.

The system can include memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. As shown in the system includes several modules for providing different functionality. The system is configured to include a geolocation module a scoring module and a GUI display module . The geolocation module is configured to determine a geolocation of a first user determine one or more users within a predetermined proximity of the determined geolocation of the first user and determine a subset of the determined one or more users that had within a predetermined period of time a previous geolocation that is different than the determined geolocation of the first user. The scoring module is configured to determine respective affinity scores for the determined subset of one or more users in which each respective affinity score is based one or more attributes and sort the determined subset of one or more users according to the determined respective affinity scores. The one or more attributes at least includes demographic information of the determined subset of one or more users in some configurations. The graphical user interface GUI display module is configured to provide for display the sorted subset of one or more users. In some configurations providing for display of the sorted subset of the one or more users is accomplished by generating an electronic map for display with one or more respective graphical representations of the sorted subset of the one or more users.

As further shown in each of the aforementioned modules can be configured to communicate between each other. For instance different data messages API calls and returns can be passed between the different modules in the system .

The system can communicate over a network with a client . The client can each be configured to communicate with the aforementioned modules of the system . For instance the client can transmit a request for providing one or more suggested users based on a user s geolocation over the network to the system . The system can then transmit data for displaying one or more suggested users e.g. as illustrated in over the network to the client . As further shown in other client s can communicate over the network with the system in a similar manner.

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a non transitory machine readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of machine readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The machine readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory and or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software components can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software components. In some implementations multiple software subject components can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software component s described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Some configurations are implemented as software processes that include one or more application programming interfaces APIs in an environment with calling program code interacting with other program code being called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which can include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API can provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

One or more APIs may be used in some configurations. An API is an interface implemented by a program code component or hardware component API implementing component that allows a different program code component or hardware component API calling component to access and use one or more functions methods procedures data structures classes and or other services provided by the API implementing component. An API can define one or more parameters that are passed between the API calling component and the API implementing component.

An API allows a developer of an API calling component that could be a third party developer to utilize specified features provided by an API implementing component. There may be one API calling component or there may be more than one such component. An API can be a source code interface that a computing system or program library provides to support requests for services from an application. An operating system OS can have multiple APIs to allow applications running on the OS to call one or more of those APIs and a service such as a program library can have multiple APIs to allow an application that uses the service to call one or more of those APIs. An API can be specified in terms of a programming language that can be interpreted or compiled when an application is built.

In some configurations the API implementing component may provide more than one API each providing a different view of or with different aspects that access different aspects of the functionality implemented by the API implementing component. For example one API of an API implementing component can provide a first set of functions and can be exposed to third party developers and another API of the API implementing component can be hidden not exposed and provide a subset of the first set of functions and also provide another set of functions such as testing or debugging functions which are not in the first set of functions. In other configurations the API implementing component may itself call one or more other components via an underlying API and thus be both an API calling component and an API implementing component.

An API defines the language and parameters that API calling components use when accessing and using specified features of the API implementing component. For example an API calling component accesses the specified features of the API implementing component through one or more API calls or invocations embodied for example by function or method calls exposed by the API and passes data and control information using parameters via the API calls or invocations. The API implementing component may return a value through the API in response to an API call from an API calling component. While the API defines the syntax and result of an API call e.g. how to invoke the API call and what the API call does the API may not reveal how the API call accomplishes the function specified by the API call. Various API calls are transferred via the one or more application programming interfaces between the calling API calling component and an API implementing component. Transferring the API calls may include issuing initiating invoking calling receiving returning or responding to the function calls or messages. In other words transferring can describe actions by either of the API calling component or the API implementing component. The function calls or other invocations of the API may send or receive one or more parameters through a parameter list or other structure. A parameter can be a constant key data structure object object class variable data type pointer array list or a pointer to a function or method or another way to reference a data or other item to be passed via the API.

Furthermore data types or classes may be provided by the API and implemented by the API implementing component. The API calling component therefore can declare variables use pointers to use or instantiate constant values of such types or classes by using definitions provided in the API.

Generally an API can be used to access a service or data provided by the API implementing component or to initiate performance of an operation or computation provided by the API implementing component. By way of example the API implementing component and the API calling component may each be any one of an operating system a library a device driver an API an application program or other module it should be understood that the API implementing component and the API calling component may be the same or different type of module from each other . API implementing components may in some cases be embodied at least in part in firmware microcode or other hardware logic. In some configurations an API may allow a client program to use the services provided by a Software Development Kit SDK library. In other configurations an application or other client program may use an API provided by an Application Framework. In these configurations the application or client program may incorporate calls to functions or methods provided by the SDK and provided by the API or use data types or objects defined in the SDK and provided by the API. An Application Framework may in these configurations provide a main event loop for a program that responds to various events defined by the Framework. The API allows the application to specify the events and the responses to the events using the Application Framework. In some implementations an API call can report to an application the capabilities or state of a hardware device including those related to aspects such as input capabilities and state output capabilities and state processing capability power state storage capacity and state communications capability etc. and the API may be implemented in part by firmware microcode or other low level logic that executes in part on the hardware component.

The API calling component may be a local component i.e. on the same data processing system as the API implementing component or a remote component i.e. on a different data processing system from the API implementing component that communicates with the API implementing component through the API over a network. It should be understood that an API implementing component may also act as an API calling component i.e. it may make API calls to an API exposed by a different API implementing component and an API calling component may also act as an API implementing component by implementing an API that is exposed to a different API calling component.

The API can allow multiple API calling components written in different programming languages to communicate with the API implementing component thus the API may include features for translating calls and returns between the API implementing component and the API calling component . The API however can be implemented in terms of a specific programming language. An API calling component can in one configuration call APIs from different providers such as a set of APIs from an OS provider and another set of APIs from a plug in provider and another set of APIs from another provider e.g. the provider of a software library or creator of the another set of APIs.

The following description describes an example API architecture in which some configurations of the subject technology can be implemented.

It will be appreciated that the API implementing component can include additional functions methods classes data structures and or other features that are not specified through the API and are not available to the API calling component . It should be understood that the API calling component can be on the same system as the API implementing component or can be located remotely and accesses the API implementing component using the API over a network. While illustrates a single API calling component interacting with the API it should be understood that other API calling components which can be written in different languages or the same language than the API calling component can use the API .

The API implementing component the API and the API calling component can be stored in a machine readable medium which includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer or other data processing system . For example a machine readable medium includes magnetic disks optical disks random access memory read only memory flash memory devices etc.

The peripherals interface can be coupled to various sensors and subsystems including a camera subsystem a wireless communication subsystem s audio subsystem and Input Output subsystem . The peripherals interface enables communication between processors and peripherals. The peripherals provide different functionality for the mobile device. Peripherals such as an orientation sensor or an acceleration sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation and acceleration functions. Additionally the mobile device can include a location sensor to provide different location data. In particular the location sensor can utilize a Global Positioning System GPS to provide different location data such as longitude latitude and altitude.

The camera subsystem can be coupled to one or more optical sensors such as a charged coupled device CCD optical sensor or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor. The camera subsystem coupled with the sensors can facilitate camera functions such as image and or video data capturing. Wireless communication subsystems can serve to facilitate communication functions. Wireless communication subsystems can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and optical receivers and transmitters. The aforementioned receivers and transmitters can be implemented to operate over one or more communication networks such as a Long Term Evolution LTE Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network a Wi Fi network Bluetooth network etc. The audio subsystem is coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition digital recording etc.

I O subsystem involves the transfer between input output peripheral devices such as a display a touchscreen etc and the data bus of the processor through the Peripherals Interface. I O subsystem can include a touchscreen controller and other input controllers to facilitate these functions Touchscreen controller can be coupled to the touchscreen and detect contact and movement on the screen using any of multiple touch sensitivity technologies. Other input controllers can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons.

Memory interface can be coupled to memory which can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as flash memory. Memory can store an operating system OS . The OS can include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks.

By way of example memory can also include communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing image video processing instructions to facilitate image video related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions media exchange and processing instructions to facilitate media communication and processing related processes and functions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and video conferencing instructions to facilitate video conferencing processes and functions. The above identified instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs or modules. Various functions of mobile device can be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The following description describes an example system in which aspects of the subject technology can be implemented.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only memory the system memory and the storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject technology. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the system . The storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the system is off. Some implementations of the subject technology use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device such as a flash drive a floppy disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device . Like the storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the subject technology s processes are stored in the system memory the storage device and or the read only memory . For example the various memory units include instructions for processing multimedia items in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

The bus also connects to the optional input and output interfaces and . The optional input interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the system. The optional input interface can interface with alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . The optional output interface can provide display images generated by the system . The optional output interface can interface with printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations can interface with devices such as a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples system to a network interface through a network adapter not shown . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or an interconnected network of networks such as the Internet. Any or all components of system can be used in conjunction with the subject technology.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a non transitory machine readable or non transitory computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Configurations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some configurations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes can be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps can be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing can be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the configurations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all configurations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject technology.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect can refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration can refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word example is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims.

