---

title: Systems and methods for susceptibility tensor imaging
abstract: The present disclosure provides a method and system for quantifying and making images of tissue anisotropy property based on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The systems and methods provided herein utilize orientation distribution of magnetic susceptibility to characterize magnetic susceptibility anisotropy (MSA) inside biological tissues. This MSA may be intrinsic property of the tissue or may be induced by the presence of external agents. In certain embodiments, the MSA is displayed as an orientation distribution function of susceptibility and/or may be described by mathematical quantities such as tensors (e.g., symmetric or asymmetric second order or higher order tensors) and spherical harmonics. In other embodiments, the MSA is characterized using a second order tensor named apparent susceptibility tensor (AST).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09383423&OS=09383423&RS=09383423
owner: 
number: 09383423
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130509
---
This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 095 200 filed Apr. 27 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Patent App. No. 61 328 323 filed on Apr. 27 2010 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present disclosure was made with U.S. Government support under the following grants NIH NIBIB Grant No. 4R00 EB007182 03. Accordingly the Federal Government has rights to this invention.

The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for quantifying and generating images of tissue anisotropy property based in magnetic resonance imaging MRI .

Magnetic resonance imaging MRI is a non destructive method for the analysis of materials and represents a new approach to medical imaging. It is generally non invasive and does not involve ionizing radiation. In very general terms nuclear magnetic moments are excited at specific spin precession frequencies which are proportional to the local magnetic field. The radio frequency signals resulting from the precession of these spins are received using pickup coils. By manipulating the magnetic fields an array of signals is provided representing different regions of the volume. These are combined to produce a volumetric image of the nuclear spin density of the body.

MRI signals for reconstructing an image of an object are obtained by placing the object in a magnetic field applying magnetic gradients for slice selection applying a magnetic excitation pulse to tilt nuclei spins in the desired slice or volume and then detecting MRI signals emitted from the tilted nuclei spins while applying readout gradients. The detected signals may be envisioned as traversing lines in a Fourier transformed space k space with the lines aligned and spaced parallel in Cartesian trajectories or emanating from the origin of k space in spiral trajectories.

An MRI may be used for scanning a patient s brain. The MRI may be useful for measuring development of the brain particularly for scanning white matter within the brain. White matter is a component of the central nervous system and consists of myelinated axons. Myelin acts as an insulator around nerve cells and increases the speed of transmission of nerve signals. The multilayered myelin sheath wrapping around nerve axons is essential for proper functioning of the central nervous system. Abnormal myelination leads to a wide range of neurological diseases and developmental disorders. MRI is the preferred reference test for diagnosing and monitoring the evolution of white matter development and related diseases due to its excellent soft tissue contrast high spatial resolution and non radioactive nature. However conventional MRI methods may not provide satisfactory accuracy for quantifying the myelinated axons and determining for example the amount of myelinated axons present in a subject s brain.

According to one embodiment a method for magnetic resonance imaging MRI is provided. The method includes using an MRI system to acquire imaging data of an object. The imaging data includes a plurality of voxels. The method includes determining orientations of the voxels. The method includes generating an image based on the orientations of the voxels for depicting a characteristic of the object.

According to one embodiment using an MRI system includes using the MRI system to apply a magnetic field to the object.

According to one embodiment using an MRI system includes using the MRI system to acquire imaging data of the object at a plurality of orientations of the object relative to a magnetic field generated by the MRI system.

According to one embodiment determining orientations of the voxels includes determining magnetic susceptibility tensors of the voxels.

According to one embodiment determining one of vector components eigenvalue decomposition and invariant functions of susceptibility tensors of the voxels and generating an image includes generating the image based on the one of vector components eigenvalue decomposition and invariant functions of the susceptibility tensors.

According to one embodiment a method includes determining whether each of the voxels has an eigenvalue greater than a predetermined magnitude. A method includes identifying adjacent voxels that each have an eigenvalue greater than the predetermined magnitude. For each identified adjacent voxel the method includes determining whether an angle between eigenvectors of the identified adjacent voxels is less than a predetermined angle value. The method includes generating an image that depicts one or more lines extending between the identified adjacent voxels in which the angle between eigenvectors is less than the predetermined angle value.

According to one embodiment a method includes generating an image based on the magnetic susceptibility tensors for depicting a tissue characteristic of the object.

According to one embodiment a method includes determining whether an angle between orientations of adjacent voxels is less than a predetermined angle value generating an image that depicts one or more lines extending between the adjacent voxels in which the angle is less than the predetermined angle value.

According to one embodiment a method includes determining apparent susceptibility tensors of the voxels.

According to one embodiment the object includes a fiber structure and a method includes identifying a set of voxels corresponding to the fiber structure based on one of magnetic susceptibility and resonance frequency shift of the set of voxels.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Further the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The presently disclosed subject matter now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments are shown. Indeed this invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The method may include determining an orientation of one or more voxels . For example the one or more orientations may also be an apparent susceptibility tensor. In other embodiments the one or more orientations may be a magnetic susceptibility tensor. In other embodiments the one or more orientations may be an orientation distribution function ODF of susceptibility.

The method may include generating an image based on the orientation of the voxels for depicting a characteristic of the object . The characteristic may be for example the presence of adjacent voxels having sufficiently similar orientations that may be representative of for example white matter within a brain of a patient.

A method may include generating an image for voxels whose major eigen value or FSA is above a predetermined value. For each chosen voxel the method may include determining the fiber orientation based on the major eigen vector orientation or orientation distribution function ODF . A method may also include plotting a line between adjacent voxels. In one or more embodiments a line may be plotted between adjacent voxels if the angle between the two major eigenvectors is smaller than a predetermined value. As an example illustrates this procedure for a region of interest ROI chosen from .

An example method may include determining one of vector components eigenvalue decomposition and or invariant functions of susceptibility tensors of each of the voxels. The method may include generating an image based on the one of the vector components eigenvalue decomposition and or invariant functions of the susceptibility tensors or combinations thereof.

Another example method may include determining whether each of the voxels has an eigenvalue greater than a predetermined magnitude. A method may also include identifying adjacent voxels that each have an eigenvalue greater than the predetermined magnitude. For each identified adjacent voxel a method may include determining whether an angle between eigenvectors of the identified adjacent voxels is less than a predetermined angle value. For each identified adjacent voxel a method may include determining whether an angle between orientations of adjacent voxels is less than a predetermined angle value. Another example method may also include generating an image that depicts one or more lines extending between the identified adjacent voxels in which the angle between eigenvectors is less than the predetermined angle value.

Yet another example method may include generating an image based on the magnetic susceptibility tensors for depicting a tissue characteristic of the object. The tissue characteristic may be for example the presence of white matter such as myelinated axons. A method may include identifying a set of voxels corresponding to the fiber structure based on one of magnetic susceptibility and resonance frequency shift of the set of voxels

One manner of determining an orientation of one or more voxels may include determining an apparent susceptibility tensor AST . If it is assumed that the anisotropic susceptibility that is the directional susceptibility of an object is described by a second order or rank 2 tensor that is referred to as the apparent susceptibility tensor AST then the magnetic flux density vector B relative to each nucleus is related to the macroscopic flux density Bas 1 

with the further assumption that the nucleus is situated within a small sphere of Lorentz. Bis the i th component of vector B Bis the j th component of vector B is the Kronecker delta function and is the chemical shift caused by an electronic screen effect. The vacuum permeability is assumed to be one for simplicity. The macroscopic flux density Bis further related to the applied magnetic field vector H and the demagnetizing field h as 2 

The demagnetizing field is a result of the loading of objects into the scanner and is generated in order to satisfy Maxwell s equations. For modern superconductor MRI scanners h

To determine the demagnetizing field the divergence of the flux density is zero from Maxwell s equation 0 4 

Eq. 8 may be solved in the spatial frequency domain. The solution expressed in the forms of Fourier transform becomes 

Here kis the i th axis in the frequency domain and k k k k. FT and FTrepresent the forward and inverse Fourier transform operators respectively. Substituting Eq. 9 into Eq. 7 obtains the formula for demagnetizing field flux density as 

The magnetic flux density seen by the nucleus may be found by substituting Eq. 10 into Eq. 3 . By keeping terms up to the first order it may be simplified to 

In MRI what is observed is signal phase instead of the full vector b. The observable phase in the subject frame of reference may be expressed as 

Here His the magnitude of the applied magnetic field is the unit vector along the i th axis and t is the time of echo TE in a gradient echo sequence. If a sufficient number of independent measurements are available Eq. 13 may be inverted to determine . Either frame of reference may be used in calculating the magnetic susceptibility tensor.

AST may be determined by several methods or techniques as disclosed herein. In one example method AST may be measured by rotating the subject inside the magnet and by acquiring an image at each orientation. In another method AST may be measured by rotating the main magnetic field if permitted. In another method AST may be measured by acquiring a spectrum of dipole coupling and through nonlinear estimation. As an example the method of rotating the subject inside the magnet and acquiring an image at each orientation is demonstrated for its relative convenience.

Assuming that AST is a symmetric tensor then there are six independent variables to be determined for each tensor. In principle six independent measurements are necessary that may be acquired with different relative orientations between the object and main magnetic field. Additional symmetry may be imposed for example by assuming . Independent measurements may be obtained by rotating the imaging object with respect to the main magnetic field. Given a set of measurements an AST may be estimated by inverting the system of linear equations formed by Eq. 13.a in the subject frame of reference or Eq. 13.b in the laboratory frame of reference. When solving Eq. 13 regularization terms may be added and iterative steps may be applied for example to improve accuracy and reduce artifacts.

For a subject frame approach images at different orientations will be first co registered to a chosen reference orientation. The six rigid body transformation parameters may be estimated using only magnitude images. The estimated transformation matrix may be used to register and re slice the real and imaginary part separately. Phase maps may be computed from the registered real and imaginary parts. Once all phase maps are computed and preprocessed AST may be computed for each voxel. Specifically by taking Fourier transform of both sides of Eq. 13.a Eq. 13.a is rewritten as 

Given a set of n measurements a measurement vector tilde over a vector of unknowns x and a system matrix A may be defined in the frequency domain 

The resultant system of linear equations may be solved for each voxel using least squares estimation as tilde over 19 

Once x is computed for each voxel the entries of AST may be computed through a 3D inverse Fourier transform.

For a laboratory frame based approach an apparent magnetic susceptibility AMS may be computed for each orientation. The computed AMS map can then be registered to the reference orientation using the same transformation parameters obtained via magnitude image registration. The AMS of a given voxel on the spatially registered AMS map may be expressed in terms of the underlying true AST as 20 

Here R is the 3D rotation matrix that transforms an image volume to match a reference. The rotation matrix may be decomposed into three basic rotation matrixes as 21 

There is one rotation matrix R for each imaging volume. Once all AMS maps are registered the underlying AST can then be estimated by inverting the resultant system of linear equation for each voxel. More specifically b is defined as a vector of AMS measured at n different orientation a vector unknown x and a system matrix B 

Here the number in the parentheses of the upper index enumerates the number of orientations sampled. The difference between Eq. 26 and Eq. 17 is that Eq 26 is expressed in the image domain while Eq. 17 is expressed in the frequency domain. Once the three notations are defined the AST in the image domain may be found for each voxel as 28 Setting Baseline Reference

An uncertainty in phase images may be induced by for example receiver phase and the choice of reference frequency. In addition subtle phase contrast may be disguised or overwhelmed by the presence of large local susceptibility such as bone and air. For images acquired with multiple channel receiver coil a complex valued image may be reconstructed for each channel of the coil. A low resolution phase map may be extracted from each coil by low pass filtering the phase map with a Fermi filter or by fitting with a smooth polynomial or spline type function or by Laplace filtering. This low resolution phase is then subtracted from each coil. After removing global phases images from all coils are combined in complex numbers to form the final image. To ensure that all images have a common reference a uniform reference marker may be inserted in the coil imaged at each session and served as a reference. Alternatively an internal reference location can also be chosen as a reference such as the cerebral spinal fluid CSF . Given a reference point phase at other locations may be either positive or negative. show the intensity reversed phase sensitive images RPSI created by weighing the magnitude image by the negative and positive phase respectively. Here negative phase tends to highlight vessels due to flow and the presence of iron whereas positive phase highlights the minute structure within white matter.

Setting the reference consistently addresses several important issues in quantifying AST such as a baseline shift that affects the mean susceptibility and a potential change of anisotropy caused by the baseline inconsistency in AMS or in the phase maps. The first effect is less significant as a constant shift in all AMS results in an addition of an identity matrix to the original AST and therefore does not affect the anisotropy 29 

The internal reference chosen may contain anisotropic susceptibility although it is expected to be small inside CSF. If the reference region of interest ROI indeed has intrinsic magnetic susceptibility anisotropy MSA then the AST of the reference ROI will be subtracted from all voxels and therefore not affect the overall MSA contrast of the whole image volume.

Solving Eq. 14 is complicated when the image phase is wrapped around 2 . Phase wrapping appears commonly in high field imaging especially when large off resonance is present and when TE is relatively large. The uncertainty in wrapped phase if uncorrected results in large errors in the estimated AST. A common approach in calculating susceptibility from phase images is to perform a phase unwrapping procedure prior to the matrix inversion. There are a number of algorithms existing in the literature for phase unwrapping. However performing phase unwrapping for the calculation of AST is unfortunately not a feasible solution because of the uncertainty in the baseline phase. When performing phase unwrapping a region has to be chosen as the reference. When different references are chosen the unwrapped phase may be offset by multiples of 2 . It is improbable to assure that the unwrapped phases are consistent among different orientations even if the same reference region is used because phase changes when the object orients differently with respect to the main magnetic field.

An example solution to this problem according to at least one embodiment of the invention may involve several steps described hereinafter. In an example step the Laplacian of the phase is computed using only cosine and sine functions of the phase which is thus indifferent to the phase wrapping issue. In another example step once the Laplacian is computed the Fourier transform of the phase is computed through the Fourier transform of the Laplacian. In another example step a phase map is multiplied by a mask such as 1 inside the brain and zero outside and the Laplacian operator is applied for a second time. This process may be iterated. Specifically the Laplacian of the phase image is computed using the following trigonometric relationship cos sin sin cos 30 

Furthermore the Laplacian of the trigonometric functions may be computed via Fourier transform as sin 2 sin 31 cos 2 cos 32 

Once the Laplacian is computed the Fourier transform of the phase image the left side of Eq. 14 can then be computed as 

In the numerical implementation of this approach a small number 1.0 10 is added to kin the denominator to avoid dividing by zero. In addition the Laplacians are computed on a matrix that is twice the size of the original image. In expanding the size of the matrix the original phase image is mirrored to different quadrants creating an even function which therefore guarantees the computed Laplacian to be real. A further advantage of this method is that the background phase is automatically removed once the Laplacian is operated on masked phase maps. The mask may be generated based on the magnitude image which defines the interior of the brain or region of interest and exterior.

The computed AST is coordinate system dependent. To define rotational invariant quantities eigen value decomposition of the AST is performed and three principal susceptibilities are defined. The three principal susceptibilities are denoted as and ranked in a descending order. There is also an eigen vector corresponding to each principal susceptibility. The major eigen vector points towards the direction that exhibits the largest magnetic susceptibility. Fractional susceptibility anisotropy FSA is defined to quantitatively characterize anisotropy observed in susceptibility as 

The shape of the tensor may be visualized by a susceptibility ellipsoid whose radii are defined by the principal susceptibilities. When principal susceptibilities are negative their absolute values may be used instead or a baseline may be added. An example susceptibility ellipsoid is shown in . The shape of the tensor may be characterized by a shape parameter T defined as 

In accordance with an experiment of the disclosed subject matter to demonstrate the existence of MSA and to illustrate the proposed susceptibility tensor imaging STI technique ex vivo MR microscopy was performed on mouse brains at a small bore 7T MRI scanner.

According to the procedure animals adult 9 12 weeks C57BL 6 mice The Jackson Laboratory Bar Harbor Me. Charles River Raleigh N.C. are anesthetized with Nembutal. A catheter is inserted into the left ventricle of the mouse heart. The animal is perfused with a peristaltic pump first with a mixture of 0.9 saline and ProHance 10 1 v v Bracco Diagnostics Princeton N.J. then with a mixture of 10 buffered formalin and ProHance 10 1 v v . The perfused mouse brain is kept within the skull to prevent any potential damage to the brain caused by surgical removal. This fixation procedure simultaneously preserves the tissue and preferentially enhances the signal by reducing the spin lattice relaxation time. In addition in comparison to conventional fixation techniques the active staining technique appears to largely preserve the diffusion property of the brain tissues. For example a mean diffusivity of 0.5 10mm s has been measured for gray matter and 0.4 10mm s for white matter.

Ultra high resolution 3D SPGR images were acquired using a 7T horizontal bore magnet with shielded coil providing gradients of 160 G cm. The imaging parameters were matrix 256 256 256 FOV 22 22 22 mm TE 8 ms and TR 100 ms. All images were acquired using a 7T magnet with shielded coil providing gradients of 770 mT m over 90 mm FOV. The system is controlled by a GE EXCITE MR imaging console. The specimen was sealed tightly inside a cylindrical tube length 30 mm and diameter 11 mm . To allow free rotation the tube was contained within and taped to a hollow sphere diameter 30 mm . The sphere containing the specimen was placed inside a dual channel mouse coil diameter 31 mm M2M imaging Corp Cleveland Ohio . After each acquisition the sphere was rotated to a different orientation and the acquisition was repeated. A total of 19 orientations were sampled that roughly cover the spherical surface evenly. To avoid introduced frequency shifts the same shimming currents were applied for all directions. The carrier frequency was also kept the same. Temperature was monitored through the scans and fluctuation was recorded to be below 1 C.

AMS was computed for each orientation. The computed AMS maps are then coregistered to a reference orientation. Examples of the orientation dependent AMS are shown in through F.

The AST was computed for the ex vivo mouse brain data. The three diagonal elements of the AST from a representative slice are shown in through F. The anisotropy existing in the AST is clearly evident. The anisotropy is the strongest in white matter while relatively weaker in the gray matter. The observed anisotropy is not a consequence of the tensor model. Isotropic medium may be described by a diagonal tensor with equal diagonal entries.

The AST may be further decomposed into three eigen vectors and three associated eigen values. Examples of eigen value maps are shown in through D. FSA and color coded FSA is shown in B C and D. The major eigen vector is projected onto the plane in an example region of interest in .

MSA allows for image contrast generation for non invasive ex vivo and in vivo MRI. As one example MSA may be acquired analyzed and visualized with STI. This contrast may be a result of intrinsic tissue property or may be induced by external agents. This technique may be applied in any in vivo or ex vivo MRI imaging microscopy where the imaged subject exhibits MSA.

Biologic tissues such as brain white and gray matter contain various amounts of iron and macromolecules. These iron and macromolecules carry an intrinsic magnetic susceptibility tensor that is determined by the iron property the structural configuration of the macromolecules and the dipolar coupling between different nuclei. Furthermore once these irons and macromolecules are bonded with local tissue the binding will enforce additional constraints on the orientation of the macromolecules thus affecting the apparent susceptibility tensor observed within one voxel. Consequently because of tissue heterogeneity there will be a difference between their AMS AST and MSA. Images may then be created by using these quantities to visualize and enhance tissue contrast. These images include a display of AMS elements of AST eigen values and eigen vectors of AST and a combination thereof such as a magnitude image weighted by AMS. Tissue structural changes caused by tumor stroke traumatic injury and iron content changes caused by developmental iron deficiency and aging will then manifest in the changes of those quantities.

Currently diffusion tensor MRI is a non invasive method for visualizing whole brain white matter fiber tracts in vivo. DTI fiber tractography may be used for in vivo mapping of brain neural networks and may be used in the fields of diagnostic radiology neuroscience psychology and psychiatry. The basic assumption of DTI fiber tractography is that the most preferable diffusion orientation of water molecules inside white matter is along the fibers. Therefore by following the major eigenvector direction one is able to trace white matter fibers in three dimensions inside the whole brain. DTI tractography has so far faced three main challenges. Currently it is thought that there is no other in vivo tracking method that may be used to validate DTI tractography. DTI tractography is ineffective of resolving multiple fiber orientations within one voxel. Third DTI is extremely susceptible to motion and off resonance artifacts. The image quality and spatial resolution of DTI as a result has so far been severely limited.

In addition DTI has encountered significant difficulties at ultra high field strength 7T and above . Although ultra high field offers stronger raw signal strength this strength has been so far difficult if not impossible for DWI DTI to take advantage of Many challenges still need to be overcome before improved DWI DTI image quality may be obtained at 7T. The difficulties include more rapid T2 and T2 decay that negates the gain of raw signal strength high specific absorption rate SAR that limits slice coverage of the brain and causes safety concern severe inhomogeneous B1 field that induces additional signal to noise SNR loss and severe off resonance artifacts that create severe geometrical distortion for echo planner imaging EPI and blurring for spiral imaging. The current DWI DTI quality at 7T is still significantly below that of 3T. The development in this area has been limited to implementing DWI DTI at ultra high field. Single shot EPI the most widely used technique for DWI acquisition has been impractical at 7T and higher even at the typical 2 2 mmresolution. Until more sophisticated technology is developed to address the aforementioned challenges routine application of DWI DTI at 7T will remain impractical.

More importantly DTI primarily sensitizes to geometrical changes and offers few insights on tissue specificity. STI may offer a number of important benefits that will significantly enhance pediatric neuroimaging such as new insights on white matter architecture complimenting and potentially cross validating DTI results superior resolution 0.4 0.4 1.0 mm safer and significantly smaller specific absorption rate SAR inherent advantage at high and ultra high fields where susceptibility effect is amplified compatibility with ultra short T2 species and specific information on tissue composition of iron and proteins that are important for brain development.

The orientation information offered by STI may be used to reconstruct white matter fiber pathways thus providing a much needed second in vivo method for mapping brain white matter fiber pathways.

Within an image volume each voxel contains an ensemble of microscopic susceptibility tensors. The measured AST is an ensemble average of all microscopic susceptibility tensors. Each microscopic tensor is an intrinsic property of the molecules within the voxel. In a solution form the orientation information of the microscopic tensor is averaged out if molecules are orienting randomly or are tumbling quickly. However in an ordered structure such as brain tissue and especially the white matter the rotational mobility of those molecules is restricted. Consequently there will be some residual orientation information within each voxel. The signal observed in a typical proton MRI experiment is primarily from water molecules due to their relatively long T2 and T2 values compared to those of macromolecules. Both free water protons and protons exchanged from macromolecules are included. Diffusion of water molecules within brain tissue especially within white matter is anisotropic. Therefore this anisotropic diffusion process cannot average out the surrounding anisotropic susceptibility tensor. As a result the residual orientation information will manifest as a frequency spectrum that may be obtained in a spectroscopic imaging experiment. The frequency range of this residual dipole field is typically within 0.1 ppm much smaller than that of NAA 2 ppm for example. The spectrum distribution may be expressed as 

Alternatively susceptibility tensor spectroscopic imaging STSI can also be conducted on other nuclei that exhibit NMR signals. For example direct STSI of 13C 15N 31P and 19F would provide a more direct examination of the molecular susceptibility tensor. Such examination would not depend on the diffusion interaction between water protons and the microscopic susceptibility tensor. The signal gain of hyperpolarized nuclei such hyperpolarized 13C will aid the detection the MSA greatly.

Molecular imaging is another important area of application for the methodology developed here and the interaction mechanism described by this invention between water proton diffusion and microscopic susceptibility. The method may be used to guide the design of molecular contrast agent and may be used to detect small concentrations of these agents once injected into the tissue. Specific exogenous contrast agents may be designed to enhance its MSA by manipulating its structure and by adding frequency shifting atoms. These contrast molecules may be designed to allow certain preferable binding configurations and orientations with tissue macromolecules thus to further enhance local MSA. This invention provides the methodology to further detect and enhance the tissue specific and pathology specific anisotropic shift effect. Imaging of this class of molecular contrast agent will not just simply rely on T1 or T2 effects. Rather it will rely on the anisotropic magnetic field generated by these agents.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention an MRI system as disclosed herein may be implemented on any computing device suitable for implementing a transaction.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium including but not limited to non transitory computer readable storage media . A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter situation scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. For example aspects of the present invention are described with reference to the diagram of and the flowchart of . It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

