---

title: Differentially expressed microRNA molecules for the treatment and diagnosis of cancer
abstract: A significant challenge in cancer research field is to define molecular features that distinguish cancer stem cells from normal stem cells. In this study, microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles in human glioblastoma stem cells were compared to that of normal neural stem cells using combined microarray and deep sequencing analyzes. These studies led to the identification of several miRNAs that are differentially expressed in glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells. Characterizing the role of these miRNAs in glioblastoma stem cells is important for the development of miRNA-based therapies that specifically target tumor stem cells, but spare normal stem cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09315809&OS=09315809&RS=09315809
owner: CITY OF HOPE
number: 09315809
owner_city: Duarte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130829
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 694 698 filed Aug. 29 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention was made with government support under R01 NS059546 and RC1 NS068370 each awarded by the National Institutes of Health and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NIH NINDS . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

MicroRNAs miRNAs are short 20 22 nucleotide RNA molecules that are expressed in a tissue specific and developmentally regulated manner and function as negative regulators of gene expression in a variety of eukaryotes. miRNAs are involved in numerous cellular processes including development proliferation and differentiation Ambros 2004 Bartel 2004 Shi et al. 2010 . Increasing evidence has linked miRNAs to cancer Esquela Kerscher Slack 2006 and are important regulators of many key pathways implicated in tumor pathogenesis Asadi Moghaddam et al. 2010 functioning as oncogenes or tumor suppressors in various tumors Cheng et al. 2010 .

Although miRNAs have been shown to be differentially expressed in various types of cancer cells as compared to normal cells many cancers are thought to be maintained by a population of cancer stem cells that retain stem cell properties are highly tumorigenic and display increased resistance to radiation and chemotherapy. As such cancer therapies should target tumor stem cells but spare normal stem cells. Therefore there is a need for identifying miRNA molecules that are differentially expressed in tumor stem cell subpopulations as compared to normal stem cells for the development of miRNA based cancer therapeutics and diagnostics.

One embodiment methods for treating a cancer are provided. In certain embodiments such methods include administering a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition to a subject having the cancer wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises one or more therapeutic agents which target one or more miRNA molecules that are differentially expressed in cancer stem cells as compared to normal cells. In other embodiments such methods include contacting a cancer cell or cancer stem cell with one or more miRNA molecules that have or impart at least one tumor suppressor activity.

In another embodiment methods for diagnosing a cancer are provided. Such methods include detecting a test level of one or more miRNA molecules in a biological sample from a subject comparing the test level to a reference level and diagnosing the subject as having the cancer when the test level is significantly different than the reference level.

In another embodiment an miRNA expression signature is provided that is specific to a cancer stem cell. The miRNA expression signature includes one or more miRNA molecules that are differentially expressed in the cancer stem cell.

According to the embodiments described above the one or more miRNA molecules may be selected from miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 34a miR 193a 3p miR 455 5p miR 455 3p miR 9 miR 10a miR 148a miR 488 miR 196a1 miR 182 miR 96 miR 193b miR 27a miR 196b miR 10b miR 29b2 miR 23a miR 107 miR 542 3p miR 93 miR 365a 4 miR 450a miR 100 miR 105 miR 363 miR 105 miR 106b miR 15b miR 21 miR 376c miR 93 miR 99b miR 155 miR 33a miR 876 3p miR 362 3p miR 25 let 7i miR 423 3p miR 34b miR 16 2 miR 29a miR 30d miR 320 miR 181c miR 128a miR 21 let 7d miR 450b 5p miR 371 5p miR 1245 miR 335 miR 492 miR 874 miR 30b miR 193a 5p miR 602 miR 346 miR 663 miR 25 miR 219 5p6 miR 184 miR 135a7 miR 584 miR 665 miR 638 miR 503 miR 628 3p miR 381 miR 78 miR 92b miR 149 miR 135b miR 302d miR 498 miR 766 miR 1389 miR 623 miR 519c 5p miR 182 miR 494 miR 129 5p10 miR 513 5p miR 200b miR 634 miR 654 5p miR 518b miR 658 miR 373 miR 30c 2 miR 130a miR 557 miR 551a miR 637 miR 518c miR 525 5p miR 596 miR 552 miR 625 miR 183 miR 187 miR 544 miR 891a miR 519e miR 933 miR 939 miR 214 miR 671 5p miR 137 miR 92b miR 525 3p miR 19a and miR 409 5p.

The embodiments described above may be specific to and may be used to treat or diagnose any applicable cancer including but not limited to bone cancer bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer cancer of the urinary tract carcinoma cervical cancer colon cancer esophageal cancer gastric cancer head and neck cancer hepatocellular cancer liver cancer lung cancer lymphoma and leukemia melanoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer pituitary cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cancer sarcoma testicular cancer thyroid cancer and uterine cancer. In one embodiment the cancer is brain cancer in particular glioblastoma.

Methods for diagnosing and treating cancer using one or more miRNA molecules are provided herein. Such methods may be used to treat or diagnose any cancer or tumor cell type including bone cancer bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer cancer of the urinary tract carcinoma cervical cancer colon cancer esophageal cancer gastric cancer head and neck cancer hepatocellular cancer liver cancer lung cancer lymphoma and leukemia melanoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer pituitary cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cancer sarcoma testicular cancer thyroid cancer and uterine cancer. In addition the methods may be used to treat tumors that are malignant e.g. primary or metastatic cancers or benign e.g. hyperplasia cyst pseudocyst hematoma and benign neoplasm .

In one embodiment the methods described herein may be used to treat or diagnose a brain cancer including but not limited to gliomas e.g. astrocytomas oligodiendrogliomas mixed gliomas enendymomas brain stem gliomas meningiomas pineal gland and pituitary gland tumors primary central nervous system lymphomas medulloblastomas craniopharyngiomas and acoustic neuromas.

Astrocytomas the most common type of glioma have been subclassified into four subtypes or grades using the World Health Organization WHO classification system for tumor identification Louis et al. 2007 . This grading scheme represents a malignancy scale and is an important factor influencing the choice of therapies. According to the WHO a grade I astrocytoma is classified as a pilocytic astrocytoma a grade II astrocytoma is classified as a diffuse astrocytoma a grade III astrocytoma is classified as an anaplastic astrocytoma and a grade IV astrocytoma is classified as a glioblastoma the most malignant grade Louis et al. 2007 . Glioblastoma is the most common and aggressive primary brain tumor with median survival time of 14 months after diagnosis Louis et al. 2007 . Currently no effective treatment has been developed for glioblastoma patients. Therefore although the miRNA molecules used according to the methods described herein may be used to treat or diagnose any type of cancer the Examples are primarily directed to the identification of miRNA molecules related to glioblastoma.

Recent studies have suggested that glioblastomas are maintained by a small population of cancer stem cells that retain stem cell properties are highly tumorigenic and display increased resistance to radiation and chemotherapy Singh et al. 2004 Bao et al. 2006 Godlewski et al. 2010 . These treatment resistant tumor cell subpopulations are the cell populations that effective therapies must target Godlewski et al. 2010 .

miRNAs have been shown to be differentially expressed in glioblastoma tissues compared to normal brain tissues. For example miRNA 21 is overexpressed in glioblastoma tissues relative to surrounding normal brain tissues Conti et al. 2009 . miR 26a is also amplified in glioblastoma tissues. By targeting the tumor suppressor Pten overexpression of miR 26a facilitates tumorigenesis and predicts a poor survival Huse et al. 2009 Kim et al. 2010 . On the other hand miR 124 miR 137 and miR 451 exhibit reduced expression in malignant glioblastoma tissues relative to normal brain tissues Silber et al. 2008 Gal et al. 2008 . The expression of these miRNAs is also reduced in glioblastoma stem cells relative to bulk tumor cells. Overexpression of these miRNAs in glioblastoma stem cells inhibits cell proliferation and induces neural differentiation suggesting a tumor suppressor role for these miRNAs. These studies suggest that some miRNAs may be used as therapeutic agents for targeting glioblastoma stem cells. However brain tumor stem cells share a core developmental program with normal neural stem cells Cheng et al. 2010 . Optimal therapies should be designed to target tumor stem cells but spare normal stem cells. Therefore identifying miRNAs that are differentially expressed in glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells is important for the development of optimal miRNA based therapies and diagnostics for glioblastoma patients.

Therefore in some embodiments methods for treating cancer e.g. glioblastoma include a step of administering a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more therapeutic agents which target and or affect the expression level of one or more miRNA molecules that are differentially expressed in cancer stem cells e.g. glioblastoma stem cells and or other cancer cells as compared to healthy cells or healthy stem cells. A therapeutic agent which targets a target molecule e.g. a target miRNA molecule that is differentially expressed means that said therapeutic agent when administered to a subject or is otherwise exposed to the target molecule results in an alteration in the expression or activity of the target molecule. Such alteration may include but is not limited to inhibition suppression activation agonization or otherwise cause a change in the expression or activity level of the target molecule. The therapeutic agent may directly cause such a change or may act on upstream or downstream targets that ultimately result in a change to the target molecule.

According to some embodiments the one or more miRNA molecules that are targeted may include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 34a miR 193a 3p miR 455 5p miR 455 3p miR 9 miR 10a miR 148a miR 488 miR 196a1 miR 182 miR 96 miR 193b miR 27a miR 196b miR 10b miR 29b2 miR 23a miR 107 miR 542 3p miR 93 miR 365a 4 miR 450a miR 100 miR 105 miR 363 miR 105 miR 106b miR 15b miR 21 miR 376c miR 93 miR 99b miR 155 miR 33a miR 876 3p miR 362 3p miR 25 let 7i miR 423 3p miR 34b miR 16 2 miR 29a miR 30d miR 320 miR 181c miR 128a miR 21 let 7d miR 450b 5p miR 371 5p miR 1245 miR 335 miR 492 miR 874 miR 30b miR 193a 5p miR 602 miR 346 miR 663 miR 25 miR 219 5p6 miR 184 miR 135a7 miR 584 miR 665 miR 638 miR 503 miR 628 3p miR 381 miR 78 miR 92b miR 149 miR 135b miR 302d miR 498 miR 766 miR 1389 miR 623 miR 519c 5p miR 182 miR 494 miR 129 5p10 miR 513 5p miR 200b miR 634 miR 654 5p miR 518b miR 658 miR 373 miR 30c 2 miR 130a miR 557 miR 551a miR 637 miR 518c miR 525 5p miR 596 miR 552 miR 625 miR 183 miR 187 miR 544 miR 891a miR 519e miR 933 miR 939 miR 214 miR 671 5p miR 137 miR 92b miR 525 3p miR 19a and miR 409 5p.

In one embodiment the one or more therapeutic agents target one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated in cancer stem cells e.g. glioblastoma stem cells and or other cancer cells as compared to healthy cells or healthy stem cells. The one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 34a miR 193a 3p miR 455 5p miR 455 3p miR 9 miR 10a miR 148a miR 488 miR 196a1 miR 182 miR 96 miR 193b miR 27a miR 196b miR 10b miR 29b2 miR 23a miR 107 miR 542 3p miR 93 miR 365a 4 miR 450a miR 100 miR 105 miR 363 miR 105 miR 106b miR 15b miR 21 miR 376c miR 93 miR 99b miR 155 miR 33a miR 876 3p miR 362 3p miR 25 let 7i miR 423 3p miR 34b miR 16 2 miR 29a miR 30d miR 320 miR 181c miR 128a miR 21 let 7d and miR 450b 5p. In one embodiment the one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 455 5p miR 455 3p.

In another embodiment the one or more therapeutic agents target one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated in cancer stem cells e.g. glioblastoma stem cells and or other cancer cells as compared to healthy cells or healthy stem cells. The one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated include but are not limited to miR 371 5p miR 1245 miR 335 miR 492 miR 874 miR 30b miR 193a 5p miR 602 miR 346 miR 663 miR 25 miR 219 5p6 miR 184 miR 135a7 miR 584 miR 665 miR 638 miR 503 miR 628 3p miR 381 miR 78 miR 92b miR 149 miR 135b miR 302d miR 498 miR 766 miR 1389 miR 623 miR 519c 5p miR 182 miR 494 miR 129 5p10 miR 513 5p miR 200b miR 634 miR 654 5p miR 518b miR 658 miR 373 miR 30c 2 miR 130a miR 557 miR 551a miR 637 miR 518c miR 525 5p miR 596 miR 552 miR 625 miR 183 miR 187 miR 544 miR 891a miR 519e miR 933 miR 939 miR 214 miR 671 5p miR 137 miR 92b miR 525 3p miR 19a and miR 409 5p. In one embodiment the one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated include but are not limited to hsa miR 371 5p hsa miR 124 1 hsa miR 124 2 hsa miR 124 3 hsa miR 335 hsa miR 492 hsa miR 874 hsa miR 30b and hsa miR 602.

In certain embodiments treating cancer e.g. glioblastoma in a subject having the cancer may be accomplished by contacting a cancer cell e.g. glioblastoma cell or cancer stem cell e.g. glioblastoma stem cell with one or more miRNA molecules that have or impart at least one tumor suppressor activity. In such embodiments the one or more miRNA molecules act as a therapeutic agent directly. Tumor suppressor activities may include but are not limited to suppression or inhibition of cell growth and or cell division. In some examples an miRNA that is found to be significantly down regulated in cancer cells or cancer stem cells relative to normal stem cells or normal cells may act as a tumor suppressor. Thus miRNA molecules that have or impart tumor suppressor activities may include but are not limited to miR 371 5p miR 1245 miR 335 miR 492 miR 874 miR 30b miR 193a 5p miR 602 miR 346 miR 663 miR 25 miR 219 5p6 miR 184 miR 135a7 miR 584 miR 665 miR 638 miR 503 miR 628 3p miR 381 miR 78 miR 92b miR 149 miR 135b miR 302d miR 498 miR 766 miR 1389 miR 623 miR 519c 5p miR 182 miR 494 miR 129 5p10 miR 513 5p miR 200b miR 634 miR 654 5p miR 518b miR 658 miR 373 miR 30c 2 miR 130a miR 557 miR 551a miR 637 miR 518c miR 525 5p miR 596 miR 552 miR 625 miR 183 miR 187 miR 544 miR 891a miR 519e miR 933 miR 939 miR 214 miR 671 5p miR 137 miR 92b miR 525 3p miR 19a and miR 409 5p. In one embodiment the one or more miRNA molecules that have or impart tumor suppressor activities may include but are not limited to hsa miR 371 5p hsa miR 124 1 hsa miR 124 2 hsa miR 124 3 hsa miR 335 hsa miR 492 hsa miR 874 hsa miR 30b and hsa miR 602.

In certain embodiments the one or more therapeutic agents target at least one miRNA molecules that is significantly upregulated and at least one miRNA molecule that is significantly downregulated in cancer stem cells e.g. glioblastoma stem cells and or other cancer cells as compared to healthy cells or healthy stem cells. The one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 455 5p miR 455 3p and the one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated include but are not limited to hsa miR 371 5p hsa miR 124 1 hsa miR 124 2 hsa miR 124 3 hsa miR 335 hsa miR 492 hsa miR 874 hsa miR 30b and hsa miR 602.

Therapeutic agents that may be used in accordance with the methods described herein may include but are not limited to i miRNA inhibitors to inhibit or silence specific miRNA molecules that are upregulated in glioblastoma or other cancers ii miRNA inhibitors to sequester endogenous miRNA thereby blocking the endogenous miRNA function i.e. the sponge method see Ebert et al. 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein and iii agents that increase the level of specific miRNA molecules for example an miRNA that has been identified as a downregulated miRNA molecule to replace the same miRNA that has a lower expression such as those described above or an miRNA expression vector that causes a cell to overexpresses such a downregulated miRNA molecule and iv miRNA molecules that can directly replace a downregulated miRNA molecule.

Because the sequences of many miRNA molecules have been previously described see www.mirbase.org inhibitors specific for one or more upregulated miRNA molecules such as those described above may be obtained commercially e.g. from Thermo Scientific Dharmacon or may be developed based on designing microRNA hairpin inhibitors antisense inhibitors e.g. 2 O methyl miRNA antisense RNAs LNA miRNA inhibitors RNA interference molecules e.g. shRNA sRNA aptamers or other suitable complementary miRNA inhibitors.

Delivery of the therapeutic agents described above may be accomplished by any suitable method including but not limited to viral vector delivery e.g. lentiviral vector delivery AAV viral vector delivery adenoviral vector delivery dendrimer mediated delivery nanoparticle mediated delivery or a combination thereof e.g. dendrimer based nanoparticle delivery .

In addition to the therapeutic agents the pharmaceutical composition may also include a pharmaceutical carrier. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to a pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle that is involved in carrying or transporting a compound of interest from one tissue organ or portion of the body to another tissue organ or portion of the body. For example the carrier may be a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient solvent or encapsulating material or some combination thereof. Each component of the carrier must be pharmaceutically acceptable in that it must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation. It also must be suitable for contact with any tissue organ or portion of the body that it may encounter meaning that it must not carry a risk of toxicity irritation allergic response immunogenicity or any other complication that outweighs its therapeutic benefits.

The pharmaceutical composition that may be used in accordance with the methods described herein may be administered by any suitable route of administration alone or as part of a pharmaceutical composition. A route of administration may refer to any administration pathway known in the art including but not limited to aerosol enteral nasal ophthalmic oral parenteral rectal transdermal e.g. topical cream or ointment patch or vaginal. Transdermal administration may be accomplished using a topical cream or ointment or by means of a transdermal patch. Parenteral refers to a route of administration that is generally associated with injection including infraorbital infusion intraarterial intracapsular intracardiac intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal intrapulmonary intraspinal intrasternal intrathecal intrauterine intravenous subarachnoid subcapsular subcutaneous transmucosal or transtracheal.

The term effective amount as used herein refers to an amount of a compound that produces a desired effect. For example a population of cells may be contacted with an effective amount of a compound to study its effect in vitro e.g. cell culture or to produce a desired therapeutic effect ex vivo or in vitro. An effective amount of a compound may be used to produce a therapeutic effect in a subject such as preventing or treating a target condition alleviating symptoms associated with the condition or producing a desired physiological effect. In such a case the effective amount of a compound is a therapeutically effective amount therapeutically effective concentration or therapeutically effective dose. The precise effective amount or therapeutically effective amount is an amount of the composition that will yield the most effective results in terms of efficacy of treatment in a given subject or population of cells. This amount will vary depending upon a variety of factors including but not limited to the characteristics of the compound including activity pharmacokinetics pharmacodynamics and bioavailability the physiological condition of the subject including age sex disease type and stage general physical condition responsiveness to a given dosage and type of medication or cells the nature of the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or carriers in the formulation and the route of administration. Further an effective or therapeutically effective amount may vary depending on whether the compound is administered alone or in combination with another compound drug therapy or other therapeutic method or modality. One skilled in the clinical and pharmacological arts will be able to determine an effective amount or therapeutically effective amount through routine experimentation namely by monitoring a cell s or subject s response to administration of a compound and adjusting the dosage accordingly. For additional guidance see Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 21Edition Univ. of Sciences in Philadelphia USIP Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

 Treating or treatment of a condition may refer to preventing the condition slowing the onset or rate of development of the condition reducing the risk of developing the condition preventing or delaying the development of symptoms associated with the condition reducing or ending symptoms associated with the condition generating a complete or partial regression of the condition or some combination thereof. Treatment may also mean a prophylactic or preventative treatment of a condition.

In some embodiments an miRNA molecule or other biomarker that is either i upregulated or overexpressed or ii downregulated or underexpressed can also be referred to as being differentially expressed as compared to a normal expression level or value of the miRNA molecule or other biomarker that indicates or is a sign of a normal process or an absence of a disease or other condition in an individual. Thus differential expression of an miRNA molecule or other biomarker can also be referred to as a variation from a normal expression level of the biomarker. Differential expression includes quantitative as well as qualitative differences in the temporal or cellular expression pattern in a gene or its expression products among for example normal and diseased cells e.g. normal stem cells vs. cancer stem cells normal cells vs. cancer cells or a combination thereof or among cells which have undergone different disease events or disease stages.

Further the phrase differentially expressed refers to a difference in the quantity or intensity of a marker e.g. miRNA present in a biological sample taken from subjects having a cancer as compared to a comparable sample taken from subjects who do not have the cancer. For example an miRNA molecule is differentially expressed between the samples if the amount of the miRNA molecule in one sample is significantly different i.e. p

The identification of the miRNAs described above and in the Examples below suggests that these miRNAs may be used as novel diagnostic markers. Thus according to some embodiments methods for diagnosing cancer e.g. glioblastoma include a step of detecting a test level of one or more miRNA molecules in a biological sample from a subject who is suspected of having the cancer.

According to some embodiments the one or more miRNA molecules that are detected may include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 34a miR 193a 3p miR 455 5p miR 455 3p miR 9 miR 10a miR 148a miR 488 miR 196a1 miR 182 miR 96 miR 193b miR 27a miR 196b miR 10b miR 29b2 miR 23a miR 107 miR 542 3p miR 93 miR 365a 4 miR 450a miR 100 miR 105 miR 363 miR 105 miR 106b miR 15b miR 21 miR 376c miR 93 miR 99b miR 155 miR 33a miR 876 3p miR 362 3p miR 25 let 7i miR 423 3p miR 34b miR 16 2 miR 29a miR 30d miR 320 miR 181c miR 128a miR 21 let 7d miR 450b 5p miR 371 5p miR 1245 miR 335 miR 492 miR 874 miR 30b miR 193a 5p miR 602 miR 346 miR 663 miR 25 miR 219 5p6 miR 184 miR 135a7 miR 584 miR 665 miR 638 miR 503 miR 628 3p miR 381 miR 78 miR 92b miR 149 miR 135b miR 302d miR 498 miR 766 miR 1389 miR 623 miR 519c 5p miR 182 miR 494 miR 129 5p10 miR 513 5p miR 200b miR 634 miR 654 5p miR 518b miR 658 miR 373 miR 30c 2 miR 130a miR 557 miR 551a miR 637 miR 518c miR 525 5p miR 596 miR 552 miR 625 miR 183 miR 187 miR 544 miR 891a miR 519e miR 933 miR 939 miR 214 miR 671 5p miR 137 miR 92b miR 525 3p miR 19a and miR 409 5p.

In one embodiment the one or more miRNA molecules are significantly upregulated in cancer stem cells e.g. glioblastoma stem cells and or other cancer cells as compared to healthy cells or healthy stem cells. The one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 34a miR 193a 3p miR 455 5p miR 455 3p miR 9 miR 10a miR 148a miR 488 miR 196a1 miR 182 miR 96 miR 193b miR 27a miR 196b miR 10b miR 29b2 miR 23a miR 107 miR 542 3p miR 93 miR 365a 4 miR 450a miR 100 miR 105 miR 363 miR 105 miR 106b miR 15b miR 21 miR 376c miR 93 miR 99b miR 155 miR 33a miR 876 3p miR 362 3p miR 25 let 7i miR 423 3p miR 34b miR 16 2 miR 29a miR 30d miR 320 miR 181c miR 128a miR 21 let 7d and miR 450b 5p. In one embodiment the one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 455 5p miR 455 3p.

In another embodiment the one or more miRNA molecules are significantly downregulated in cancer stem cells e.g. glioblastoma stem cells and or other cancer cells as compared to healthy cells or healthy stem cells. The one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated include but are not limited to miR 371 5p miR 1245 miR 335 miR 492 miR 874 miR 30b miR 193a 5p miR 602 miR 346 miR 663 miR 25 miR 219 5p6 miR 184 miR 135a7 miR 584 miR 665 miR 638 miR 503 miR 628 3p miR 381 miR 78 miR 92b miR 149 miR 135b miR 302d miR 498 miR 766 miR 1389 miR 623 miR 519c 5p miR 182 miR 494 miR 129 5p10 miR 513 5p miR 200b miR 634 miR 654 5p miR 518b miR 658 miR 373 miR 30c 2 miR 130a miR 557 miR 551a miR 637 miR 518c miR 525 5p miR 596 miR 552 miR 625 miR 183 miR 187 miR 544 miR 891a miR 519e miR 933 miR 939 miR 214 miR 671 5p miR 137 miR 92b miR 525 3p miR 19a and miR 409 5p. In one embodiment the one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated include but are not limited to hsa miR 371 5p hsa miR 124 1 hsa miR 124 2 hsa miR 124 3 hsa miR 335 hsa miR 492 hsa miR 874 hsa miR 30b and hsa miR 602.

In certain embodiments the one or more miRNA molecules may include at least one miRNA molecule that is significantly upregulated and at least one miRNA molecule that is significantly downregulated in cancer stem cells e.g. glioblastoma stem cells and or other cancer cells as compared to healthy cells or healthy stem cells. The one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 455 5p miR 455 3p and the one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated include but are not limited to hsa miR 371 5p hsa miR 124 1 hsa miR 124 2 hsa miR 124 3 hsa miR 335 hsa miR 492 hsa miR 874 hsa miR 30b and hsa miR 602.

According to the embodiments described herein a biological sample may refer to any material biological fluid tissue or cell obtained or otherwise derived from an individual including but not limited to blood including whole blood leukocytes peripheral blood mononuclear cells buffy coat plasma and serum sputum tears mucus nasal washes nasal aspirate breath urine semen saliva meningeal fluid amniotic fluid glandular fluid lymph fluid milk bronchial aspirate synovial fluid joint aspirate cells a cellular extract and cerebrospinal fluid. This also includes experimentally separated fractions of all of the preceding. For example a blood sample can be fractionated into serum or into fractions containing particular types of blood cells such as red blood cells or white blood cells leukocytes . If desired a sample can be a combination of samples from an individual such as a combination of a tissue and fluid sample. A biological sample may also include a biological tissue sample such as a sample obtained by tissue biopsy or by surgical excision. A biological sample may also include materials derived from a tissue culture or a cell culture. Further a biological sample may be derived by taking biological samples from a number of individuals and pooling them or pooling an aliquot of each individual s biological sample. The pooled sample can be treated as a sample from a single individual and if the presence of cancer is established in the pooled sample then each individual biological sample can be re tested to determine which individuals have cancer.

A test level of an miRNA molecule or other biomarker refers to an amount of a biomarker such as an miRNA molecule in a subject s undiagnosed biological sample. The test level may be compared to that of a control sample or may be analyzed based on a reference or control level that has been previously established to determine a status of the sample. Such a status may be a diagnosis prognosis or evaluation of a disease or condition. In one embodiment the disease is cancer. A test sample or test amount can be either in absolute amount e.g. nanogram mL or microgram mL or a relative amount e.g. relative intensity of signals .

The test level of the one or more miRNA molecules may be detected by any suitable method of measurement or quantification known in the art including but not limited to reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction RT PCR methods including quantitative and qualitative RT PCR methods microarray serial analysis of gene expression SAGE gene expression analysis by massively parallel signature sequencing MPSS or deep sequencing methods such as those described below immunoassays such as ELISA immunohistochemistry IHC mass spectrometry MS methods transcriptomics and proteomics. Several of the detection methods described above include a transformative step wherein the one or more miRNA molecules that are present in a biological sample are converted or transformed into structural visual or other tangible manifestation of the amount of miRNA e.g. a cDNA molecule a reporter signal a fluorescent luminescent or radioactive signal a labeled antibody a graph a tracing .

In some embodiments the test level of the one or more miRNA molecules may be detected using a set of reagents which contain miRNA detection agents specific to a set of one or more miRNA molecules. The miRNA detection agents may be any suitable molecule that binds to and or is complementary to the one or more miRNA molecules including but not limited to complementary oligonucleotides antisense oligonucleotides and aptamers. The set of reagents maybe used in accordance with any method of measurement or quantification such as those described above and or may be provided in a kit for detecting the set of one or more miRNA molecules. According to some embodiments the kit may include in addition to the set of reagents which contain miRNA detection agents at least one detection label to produce a detectable or visible signal e.g. fluorescent labels dyes etc. instructional materials one or more reference standards additional agents e.g. buffers stabilizers vessels for storing or transporting the detection agents or a combination thereof.

According to some embodiments the test level is compared to a reference level or a reference standard or a control level and the subject may then be diagnosed as having cancer when the test level is significantly different than the reference level or control level. A reference or control level of an miRNA molecule may be any amount or a range of amounts to be compared against the test level. For example a reference or control level of an miRNA molecule may be the level detected in a population of patients with a specified condition or disease e.g. malignancy cancer or non cancerous lung disease or condition or the level detected in a control population of individuals without the condition or disease. A control amount can be either in absolute amount e.g. nanogram mL or microgram mL or a relative amount e.g. relative intensity of signals .

In one embodiment a test level of an miRNA molecule is considered to be significantly different than a reference or control level if said test level is at least 1.5 fold higher i.e. upregulated or lower i.e. downregulated as compared to a reference or control level of the miRNA. In some embodiments the test level is considered to be significantly different than the reference or control level is the test level is at least 5 fold higher i.e. upregulated or lower i.e. downregulated as compared to the reference or control level. Alternatively an increase or decrease in an mRNA molecule is typically significantly different if said increase or decrease has a p value of less than 0.5 or less than 0.05 p

The one or more miRNA molecules described above may be part of an miRNA expression signature or profile that is specific to a cancer stem cell such as those discussed above. Such an expression signature may be used in accordance with the methods herein to diagnose cancer or may serve as a target for developing treatments for cancer. In one embodiment the miRNA expression signature is specific to glioblastoma and includes but is not limited to one or more miRNA molecules selected from miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 34a miR 193a 3p miR 455 5p miR 455 3p miR 9 miR 10a miR 148a miR 488 miR 196a1 miR 182 miR 96 miR 193b miR 27a miR 196b miR 10b miR 29b2 miR 23a miR 107 miR 542 3p miR 93 miR 365a 4 miR 450a miR 100 miR 105 miR 363 miR 105 miR 106b miR 15b miR 21 miR 376c miR 93 miR 99b miR 155 miR 33a miR 876 3p miR 362 3p miR 25 let 7i miR 423 3p miR 34b miR 16 2 miR 29a miR 30d miR 320 miR 181c miR 128a miR 21 let 7d miR 450b 5p miR 371 5p miR 1245 miR 335 miR 492 miR 874 miR 30b miR 193a 5p miR 602 miR 346 miR 663 miR 25 miR 219 5p6 miR 184 miR 135a7 miR 584 miR 665 miR 638 miR 503 miR 628 3p miR 381 miR 78 miR 92b miR 149 miR 135b miR 302d miR 498 miR 766 miR 1389 miR 623 miR 519c 5p miR 182 miR 494 miR 129 5p10 miR 513 5p miR 200b miR 634 miR 654 5p miR 518b miR 658 miR 373 miR 30c 2 miR 130a miR 557 miR 551a miR 637 miR 518c miR 525 5p miR 596 miR 552 miR 625 miR 183 miR 187 miR 544 miR 891a miR 519e miR 933 miR 939 miR 214 miR 671 5p miR 137 miR 92b miR 525 3p miR 19a and miR 409 5p.

In another embodiment the miRNA expression signature includes one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated in cancer stem cells e.g. glioblastoma stem cells and or other cancer cells as compared to healthy cells or healthy stem cells. The one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 34a miR 193a 3p miR 455 5p miR 455 3p miR 9 miR 10a miR 148a miR 488 miR 196a1 miR 182 miR 96 miR 193b miR 27a miR 196b miR 10b miR 29b2 miR 23a miR 107 miR 542 3p miR 93 miR 365a 4 miR 450a miR 100 miR 105 miR 363 miR 105 miR 106b miR 15b miR 21 miR 376c miR 93 miR 99b miR 155 miR 33a miR 876 3p miR 362 3p miR 25 let 7i miR 423 3p miR 34b miR 16 2 miR 29a miR 30d miR 320 miR 181c miR 128a miR 21 let 7d and miR 450b 5p. In one embodiment the one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 455 5p miR 455 3p.

In another embodiment the miRNA expression signature includes one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated in cancer stem cells e.g. glioblastoma stem cells and or other cancer cells as compared to healthy cells or healthy stem cells. The one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated include but are not limited to miR 371 5p miR 1245 miR 335 miR 492 miR 874 miR 30b miR 193a 5p miR 602 miR 346 miR 663 miR 25 miR 219 5p6 miR 184 miR 135a7 miR 584 miR 665 miR 638 miR 503 miR 628 3p miR 381 miR 78 miR 92b miR 149 miR 135b miR 302d miR 498 miR 766 miR 1389 miR 623 miR 519c 5p miR 182 miR 494 miR 129 5p10 miR 513 5p miR 200b miR 634 miR 654 5p miR 518b miR 658 miR 373 miR 30c 2 miR 130a miR 557 miR 551a miR 637 miR 518c miR 525 5p miR 596 miR 552 miR 625 miR 183 miR 187 miR 544 miR 891a miR 519e miR 933 miR 939 miR 214 miR 671 5p miR 137 miR 92b miR 525 3p miR 19a and miR 409 5p. In one embodiment the one or more miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated include but are not limited to hsa miR 371 5p hsa miR 124 1 hsa miR 124 2 hsa miR 124 3 hsa miR 335 hsa miR 492 hsa miR 874 hsa miR 30b and hsa miR 602.

In certain embodiments the miRNA expression signature includes at least one miRNA molecule that is significantly upregulated and at least one miRNA molecule that is significantly downregulated in cancer stem cells e.g. glioblastoma stem cells and or other cancer cells as compared to healthy cells or healthy stem cells. miRNA molecules that are significantly upregulated include but are not limited to miR 10a miR 10b miR 140 3p miR 140 5p miR 204 miR 424 miR 455 5p miR 455 3p and miRNA molecules that are significantly downregulated include but are not limited to hsa miR 371 5p hsa miR 124 1 hsa miR 124 2 hsa miR 124 3 hsa miR 335 hsa miR 492 hsa miR 874 hsa miR 30b and hsa miR 602.

The following examples are intended to illustrate various embodiments of the invention. As such the specific embodiments discussed are not to be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various equivalents changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of invention and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are to be included herein. Further all references cited in the disclosure are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

The Examples described below show the results of a genome wide miRNA expression profiling study in human glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells using combined miRNA microarray and deep sequencing analyses. This study led to the identification of eight miRNAs that are substantially up regulated and two miRNAs that are significantly down regulated in glioblastoma stem cells relative to normal neural stem cells. Differential expression of four of these miRNAs 2 up regulated and 2 down regulated was further validated by real time RT PCR in both glioblastoma stem cells and glioblastoma patient tumor tissues. Moreover it was demonstrated that these up regulated or down regulated miRNAs inhibit the expression of genes that are involved in tumor suppression or tumorigenesis respectively.

The derivation of PBT003 GSC1 and PBT017 GSC2 has been described by Brown et al Brown et al. 2009 . PBT707 GSC3 is a de novo cell line derived from anonymized leftover tissues with the approval of the City of Hope Institutional Review Board. The study involves the use of completely anonymized specimens. No informed consent is involved. NOD scid IL2Rgamma NSG mice 6 8 weeks were used for glioblastoma stem cell transplantation. Tumor cell transplantation was performed under an IACUC protocol approved by the City of Hope Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee.

Glioblastoma stem cells were derived from newly diagnosed WHO grade IV glioblastoma tissues. Specifically freshly isolated glioblastoma tissues were minced with sterile scissors and dissociated into single cells using 400 units ml of collagenase III in DMEM F12 medium supplemented with 5 g ml heparin 1 B27 GIBCO BRL and 2 mM L glutamine. Dissociated cells were then centrifuged at 1 200 rpm for 5 min and the supernatant was discarded. To eliminate red blood cells the resultant cells were incubated in 10 ml red blood cell lysis buffer Invitrogen for 10 min. Cells were centrifuged again at 1 200 rpm for 5 min and supernatant was discarded. The resultant cells were resuspended in DMEM F12 medium supplemented with 20 ng ml EGF 20 ng ml FGF 5 g ml heparin 1 B27 GIBCO BRL and 2 mM L glutamine and cultured in this medium thereafter. Tumor spheres appeared around one week in culture. Normal human neural stem cells were derived from primary human brain tissues and maintained in the same culture media. Specifically human fetal brain tissues Biosciences Resources were dissociated in cold Hanks balance salt solution HBSS using polished glass pipette. The resultant cells were centrifuged and resuspended in DMEM F12 medium supplemented with 0.5 B27 25 g ml insulin 20 g ml apo transferrin 30 nM sodium selenite 20 nM progesterone 100 mM putrescine 20 ng ml FGF and 10 ng ml LIF. The initial culture was split at 1 2 each day for 4 days followed by media change every other day till day 21. Human neurospheres started to appear around day 14. The spheres were split around day 21 with Accutase Sigma and cultured in DMEM F12 medium supplemented with 20 ng ml EGF 20 ng ml FGF 5 g ml heparin 1 B27 GIBCO BRL and 2 mM L glutamine thereafter. Both tumor spheres and normal neurospheres were characterized for their self renewal and multipotency. Glioblastoma stem cell spheres were also characterized for their ability to derive brain tumors.

For differentiation both glioblastoma stem cells and neural stem cells were induced into differentiation using 0.5 fetal bovine serum and 1 M all trans retinoic acid. For in vivo tumor formation assays 2 10dissociated glioblastoma stem cells were injected into cerebral cortex of NSG mice by stereotaxic injection. The coordinates for the injection were AP 0.6 mm ML 1.6 mm and DV 2.6 mm. Brains were harvested 5 weeks after cell transplantation. Frozen brains were cut into 20 m coronal sections followed by Hematoxylin Eosin H E staining.

Spheres of glioblastoma stem cells were dissociated and seeded into 24 well plates at 2 10cells per well in 300 l of medium. The generation 5 G5 dendrimers and Opti MEM solution were mixed by vortex for 10 seconds and incubated at room temperature RT for 10 min. The miRNA duplexes or the combination of miRNAs and their short hairpin RNA inhibitors were added into dendrimer Opti MEM solution in a total volume of 100 l mixed gently for 10 sec and incubated at RT for 25 min. The nitrogen to phosphorus N P ratio of the dendrimer RNA complex is 5. The 100 l dendrimer RNA complex was added into 300 l cell suspension in each well of 24 well plates shake gently and put back to COincubator. Forty eight hr after transfection cells were collected and subjected to Western blot analysis.

Whole cell extracts of glioblastoma stem cells were prepared using RIPA buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl 1 NP40 0.5 deoxycholate and 0.1 SDS containing protease inhibitor cocktail Roche . Western blotting was performed with anti NRAS sc 31 1 100 and anti PIM3 sc 98959 1 100 antibodies from Santa Cruz.

NSG mice 6 8 weeks were used for glioblastoma stem cell transplantation. Tumor cell transplantation was performed under the IACUC protocol 05050 approved by the City of Hope Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. 5 10dissociated glioblastoma stem cells were injected into the front lobe of forebrains by stereotaxic injection. The coordinates for the injection were AP 0.6 mm ML 1.6 mm and DV 2.6 mm.

DNA fragments encoding the 3 UTR of putative miRNA targets were cloned into psiCHECK 2 Promega downstream of a luciferase reporter gene. The PCR primers that were used for 3 UTR cloning of each gene are as follows CSMD1 forward 5 GAT CCT CGA GCT GTT CTG TCG CAG AAT G 3 SEQ ID NO 13 and CSMD1 reverse 5 GAT CGC GGC CGC GTC AGC ATT TTG CAC CTA G3 SEQ ID NO 14 PIM3 forward 5 GAT CCT CGA GGC TTG TGA GGA GCT GCA C 3 SEQ ID NO 15 and PIM3 reverse 5 GAT CGC GGC CGC GGA AAC TTG TCA GGT CAC C 3 SEQ ID NO 16 NRAS forward 5 GAT CCT CGA GCT GGA GGA GAA GTA TTC CTG 3 SEQ ID NO 17 and NRAS reverse 5 GAT CGC GGC CGC TGC AAA TGT AGA GCT TTC TGG 3 SEQ ID NO 18 . Corresponding miRNA binding sites on the 3 UTRs were mutated by site directed mutagenesis according to the manufacturer s instructions Stratagene . The binding site of hsa miR 124 on the 3 UTR of PIM3 and NRAS was mutated from GTGCCTT to GTG the binding site of hsa miR 10b on the 3 UTR of CSMD1 was mutated from ACAGGGT to ACAG.

Plasmid DNA or DNA miRNA mixture was transfected into HEK293 cells using Transfectin Bio Rad as described Zhao et al. 2009 Zhao et al. 2010 Sun et al. 2011 . miR 10a miR 10b or miR 124 RNA duplexes and or their correspondent RNA inhibitors Dharmacon were mixed in 50 l serum free media with Transfectin incubated at RT for 20 min. Negative controls for miRNA and their hairpin inhibitors were included. The final concentration of miRNAs or their inhibitors was 20 nM. The resultant mixture was added dropwise to HEK293 cells in a 24 well plate with 450 l medium per well to a total volume of 500 l per well. The transfected cells were harvested 48 h after transfection and subjected to subsequent reporter assays as described Sun et al. 2007 . Reporter luciferase activity was measured 48 hrs after transfection using Dual Luciferase Assay kit Promega . The luciferase activity was normalized by firefly luciferase internal control and expressed as relative luciferase activity. The miR 10a RNA duplex sense sequence is 5 TAC CCT GTA GAT CCG AAT TTG TG 3 SEQ ID NO 19 . The miR 10b RNA duplex sense sequence is 5 TAC CCT GTA GAA CCG AAT TTG TG 3 SEQ ID NO 20 . The miR 124 RNA duplex sense sequence is 5 TAA GGC ACG CGG TGA ATG CC 3 SEQ ID NO 21 . And the control RNA duplex sense sequence is 5 UCA CAA CCU CCU AGA AAG AGU AGA 3 SEQ ID NO 22 .

For miRNA expression total RNAs were reversely transcribed and quantified by real time RT PCR with TaqMan MicroRNA Assay kit Applied Biosystems . The expression of specific miRNAs was normalized using human U18 snRNA. For mRNA expression putative miRNA targets were quantified by iTaq SYBR Green Supermix with ROX Bio Rad . Primers used for RT PCR include PIM3 forward 5 AGC TCA AGC TCA TCG ACT TC 3 SEQ ID NO 23 and PIM3 reverse 5 TAG CGG TGG TAG CGG ATC 3 SEQ ID NO 24 NRAS forward 5 CCA TGA GAG ACC AAT ACA TGA G 3 SEQ ID NO 25 and NRAS reverse 5 GCT TAA TCT GCT CCC TGT AG 3 SEQ ID NO 26 HOXD10 forward 5 TTC CCG AAG AGA GGA GCT G 3 SEQ ID NO 27 and HOXD10 reverse 5 CTG CCA CTC TTT GCA GTG AG 3 SEQ ID NO 28 CSMD1 forward 5 GCA GAA ATG CTT ACT GAG GAT G 3 SEQ ID NO 29 and CSMD1 reverse 5 AGA ACC CTC AAA CTG CAA CTG 3 SEQ ID NO 30 GAPDH forward 5 ATC ACC ATC TTC CAG GAG C 3 SEQ ID NO 31 and GAPDH reverse 5 CCT TCT CCA TGG TGG TGA AG 3 SEQ ID NO 32 .

Total RNAs were extracted from glioblastoma stem cells or human neural stem cells by TRIzol Invitrogen method according to manufacturer s protocol. Ten g of RNA was used for miRNA microarray using Exiqon platform. One g of RNA was used for deep sequencing using Illumina Genome Analyser II GAII . All data are MIAME compliant.

Common putative targets of either the down regulated or the up regulated miRNAs were uploaded onto the Database for Annotation Visualization and Integrated Discovery DAVID Functional Annotation Bioinformatics Microarray Analysis david.abcc.ncifcrf.gov . Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes KEGG pathway in DAVID was used to depict the biological meanings of the common miRNA targets.

To identify miRNAs that are differentially expressed in glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells three primary glioblastoma stem cell lines and three normal human neural stem cell lines were established to determine if miRNA expression was significantly different in tumor stem cells as compared to normal stem cells. Human primary glioblastoma stem cells were derived from newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme IV patients and cultured in DMEM F12 media supplemented with epithelial growth factor EGF fibroblast growth factor FGF and B27 supplement. Human normal neural stem cells were derived from normal human brain tissues and cultured in the same media. Both glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells grew as neurospheres under the culture conditions . Both types of cells are multipotent having the ability to differentiate into Tuj1 positive neurons and or GFAP positive astrocytes when induced into differentiation using fetal bovine serum and all trans retinoic acid . However the glioblastoma stem cells were able to generate tumors when transplanted to the immunodeficient NSG mice whereas the human neural stem cells did not data not shown .

Combined microarray and deep sequencing analyses were performed to determine the expression profile of miRNAs in glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells. Total RNAs were prepared from both glioblastoma stem cells and neural stem cells for miRNA microarray analysis. In microarray analysis 10 miRNAs were identified as having more than a 5 fold up regulation in expression in glioblastoma stem cells and 8 miRNAs were identified as having more than a 5 fold down regulation in expression in glioblastoma stem cells relative to neural stem cells Table 1 . The differentially expressed miRNAs that exhibit more than 1.5 fold difference in the expression between glioblastoma stem cells and neural stem cells are shown in Table 2 below.

Using an Illumina Genome Analyzer II GAII sequencing system whole genome small RNA sequencing was performed in glioblastoma stem cells and neural stem cells. Significantly more miRNAs were detected to be differentially expressed in glioblastoma stem cells and neural stem cells in deep sequencing analysis. For example deep sequencing analysis revealed 105 miRNAs that were up regulated more than 5 fold in glioblastoma stem cells. However microarray analysis revealed only 10 miRNAs showing more than 5 fold increase in glioblastoma stem cells. Interestingly 8 out of the 10 miRNAs that were up regulated more than 5 fold in microarray analysis also exhibited significantly increased expression in deep sequencing analysis Table 3 . Two of the miRNAs that had more than 5 fold decrease of expression in microarray analysis also showed more than 5 fold reduction of expression in deep sequencing analysis Table 3 . Taken together the combined results of the microarray and deep sequencing analyses identified a set of miRNAs that are differentially expressed in glioblastoma stem cells as compared to normal neural stem cells.

Validation of the differentially expressed miRNAs using real time RT PCR. The distinct expression of these miRNAs in glioblastoma stem cells and neural stem cells was further validated using real time RT PCR analysis. RT PCR results of the top three miRNAs that are up regulated in glioblastoma stem cells in both microarray and deep sequencing analyses Table 3 are shown in . All three miRNAs showed a significant up regulation in the three primary glioblastoma stem cell lines GSC1 3 tested compared to three lines of normal neural stem cells. miR 10a revealed a dramatic increase of expression in all three glioblastoma stem cell lines tested with more than 100 fold up regulation of expression in two of the glioblastoma stem cell lines . miR 10b exhibited even higher expression in glioblastoma stem cell lines GSC1 and GSC3 with up to 2 505 fold increase of expression in GSC1 . miR 140 5p also displayed significant increase of expression in all three glioblastoma stem cell lines tested although with much lower fold induction .

As discussed above two miRNAs are down regulated more than 5 fold in glioblastoma stem cells as shown by both microarray and deep sequencing analyses. The expression of these two miRNAs was also validated using real time RT PCR assays. Both miR 124 and miR 874 exhibited reproducible decrease of expression in all three glioblastoma stem cell lines tested compared to normal neural stem cells E . Specifically miR 874 which has not been well characterized to date exhibited a significant reduction of expression in all three glioblastoma stem cell lines with more than 20 fold reduction in two of the glioblastoma stem cell lines GSC1 and GSC3 .

In addition normal and glioblastoma brain tissues were analyzed to determine whether the set of miRNAs identified above are differentially expressed in distinct expression patterns as shown in the cultured cell studies descried above. For this purpose RNAs were isolated from 9 grade IV glioblastoma multiforme brain tissue samples and 4 non tumor normal brain tissue samples. Real time RT PCR analyses were performed to detect the expression of two up regulated miRNAs and two down regulated miRNAs. Consistent with the results from tumor stem cells described above miR 10a exhibited a substantial increase of expression in most glioblastoma tissues . miR 10b also exhibited a substantial up regulation of expression in all of the glioblastoma tissues tested with an average increase of 142 fold . For miRNAs that were down regulated in glioblastoma stem cells both miR 124 and miR 874 displayed a significant decrease of expression in most of the glioblastoma tissues tested compared to their average expression in normal brain tissues D .

By using a Targetscan algorithm Lewis et al. 2003 CUB and SUSHI multiple domain protein 1 CSMD1 were identified as candidate downstream targets for miR 10a and miR 10b the most highly up regulated miRNAs in glioblastoma stem cells in the profiling analyses. CSMD1 is a tumor suppressor gene that maps to chromosome 8p23 a region deleted in many tumor types Kamal et al. 2010 . Sequence analysis revealed that the seed region of both miR 10a and miR 10b could form complementary base pairs with the 3 untranslated region 3 UTR of human and mouse CSMD1 mRNAs B . To demonstrate a direct interaction between the 3 UTR of CSMD1 and miR 10 miR10a and miR 10b the 3 UTR region of human CSMD1 that contains the putative miR 10 recognition sites and flanking sequences was inserted downstream of a luciferase reporter gene into a siCheck vector. RNA duplexes of mature miR 10a or miR 10b were transfected into human embryonic kidney HEK293 cells along with the reporter gene. Significant repression of the reporter gene was observed in both miR 10a and miR 10b transfected cells D . Mutation of the miR 10 targeting sites abolished the repression D . Furthermore treatment of the inhibitors of miR 10a and miR 10b reversed the inhibitory effect of miR 10a and miR 10b on the luciferase reporter activity respectively D . These results suggest that both miR 10a and miR 10b repress CSMD1 expression through the predicted targeting sites in CSMD1 3 UTR.

Since miR 10a and miR 10b are both up regulated in glioblastoma stem cells relative to neural stem cells the expression of CSMD1 was examined in both cell types. Dramatic reduction of CSMD1 mRNA expression was detected in glioblastoma stem cells by RT PCR analysis compared to neural stem cells consistent with the observation that CSMD1 expression is repressed by miR 10 D . The homeobox transcription factor HOXD10 has been identified as a tumor suppressor gene targeted by miR 10b in breast cancers Ma et al. 2007 . Here it was shown that the HOXD10 mRNA expression is also dramatically reduced 20 fold in glioblastoma stem cells examined compared to normal neural stem cells . Together these results suggest that miR 10 targets the expression of tumor suppressor genes CSMD1 and HOXD10 in glioblastoma stem cells.

Furthermore using the Targetscan algorithm the oncogenes NRAS and PIM3 were selected as putative target genes of miR 124 one of the down regulated miRNAs in glioblastoma stem cells. NRAS is a small guanine nucleotide binding protein and one of the three RAS KRAS NRAS HRAS isoforms Kiessling et al. 2011 . The RAS signaling pathway plays an important role in many cancers by regulating cell proliferation differentiation and survival Kan et al. 2010 . Using Targetscan algorithm miR 124 was predicted to have a targeting site at the 3 UTR of the NRAS gene. This targeting site is conserved in human mouse and dog NRAS . To validate the targeting of NRAS by miR 124 a luciferase reporter construct with human NRAS 3 UTR containing the predicted miR 124 targeting site was made and the flanking sequences inserted into the 3 UTR of a luciferase reporter gene in a siCHECK vector. Transfection of miR 124 RNA duplexes led to significant repression of the reporter gene . Mutation of the putative miR 124 targeting site abolished the repression . Furthermore treatment with a miR 124 inhibitor reversed the inhibitory effect of miR 124 on the luciferase reporter activity . These results suggest that miR 124 represses NRAS expression through the predicted targeting site in NRAS 3 UTR.

Next it was tested whether miR 124 targets NRAS expression in glioblastoma stem cells. Mature miR 124 RNA duplexes were introduced into GSC1 cells using a cationic triethanolamine core polyamidoamine PAMAM dendrimer mediated small RNA delivery system Zhou et al. 2006 Zhou et al. 2011 . A control RNA duplex was included as a negative control. NRAS expression levels were examined by Western blot analysis. Reduction of NRAS protein level was detected in miR 124 transfected cells. Co transfection of a miR 124 RNA inhibitor abolished the inhibitory effect of miR 124 on NRAS expression . This result indicates that miR 124 down regulates endogenous NRAS expression in glioblastoma stem cells.

The expression of NRAS in glioblastoma stem cells and neural stem cells was examined where miR 124 exhibits differential expression. A significant increase of NRAS mRNA expression was detected in glioblastoma stem cells compared to neural stem cells . The inverse expression pattern of NRAS and miR 124 is consistent with the observation that NRAS expression is repressed by miR 124 C .

A putative targeting site of miR 124 was also identified in the 3 UTR of both human and mouse PIM3 a proto oncogene with serine threonine kinase activity . PIM3 has been shown to promote tumor cell growth through modulating cell cycle regulators Wu et al. 2010 Brault et al. 2010 . To validate the targeting of PIM3 by miR 124 a luciferase reporter construct with human PIM3 3 UTR was made which contained the predicted miR 124 targeting site and the flanking sequences inserted into the 3 UTR of a luciferase reporter gene. Transfection of miR 124 led to significant repression of the reporter gene and mutation of the putative miR 124 targeting site abolished the repression . Furthermore treatment with a miR 124 inhibitor reversed the inhibitory effect of miR 124 on the luciferase reporter activity . These results suggest that miR 124 represses PIM3 expression through the predicted targeting site in its 3 UTR.

To test whether miR 124 targets PIM3 expression in glioblastoma stem cells mature miR 124 RNA duplexes were introduced into GSC1 cells using the dendrimer mediated delivery system Zhou et al. 2006 Zhou et al. 2011 . A control RNA duplex was included as a negative control. Reduction of PIM3 protein level was detected in miR 124 transfected cells by Western blot analysis. Co transfection of a miR 124 RNA inhibitor abolished the inhibitory effect of miR 124 on PIM3 expression . This result indicates that miR 124 down regulates endogenous PIM3 expression in glioblastoma stem cells. Moreover a significant increase of PIM3 mRNA expression was detected in the glioblastoma stem cells tested compared to neural stem cells further supporting the idea that miR 124 represses PIM3 expression.

It is increasingly clear that miRNAs are important regulators of key signaling pathways implicated in tumorigenesis. Using Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes KEGG pathway analysis the predicted targets of miRNAs that showed more than 5 fold up regulation or down regulation in glioblastoma stem cells in the microarray analysis were compared. Seven of the ten miRNAs that were up regulated more than 5 fold in glioblastoma stem cells are predicted to have components of the p53 pathway as common targets . The p53 pathway has been shown to be involved in cell cycle arrest apoptosis inhibition of cell migration inhibition of angiogenesis and affect genomic stability Junttila Evan 2009 . In contrast five out of eight miRNAs that exhibited more than 5 fold down regulation in glioblastoma stem cells were predicted to target components of the IGF pathway that has been implicated in promoting cell growth survival and migration Clayton et al. 2011 .

The present study investigated genome wide miRNA expression in tumor stem cell populations of glioblastoma the most frequent and malignant primary brain tumor. In spite of recent improvement of surgical and radiotherapeutic techniques the prognosis for glioblastoma patients is still very poor. The search for molecular targets is fundamental to develop effective treatments for glioblastoma.

Global profiling is an effective approach to identify abnormally expressed miRNAs in tumor genomes. Three different technical platforms were used to determine the differential expression of miRNAs in glioblastoma stem cells and neural stem cells. The microarray platform was combined with the newly emerged small RNA deep sequencing technology to profile miRNA expression in glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells and validated the profiling results using quantitative RT PCR. Although the absolute fold change obtained from each platform is different due to the different sensitivity of the techniques the trend of the change for the miRNAs studied is consistent. The miRNA expression profile could clearly distinguish glioblastoma stem cells from normal neural stem cells allowing us to identify a miRNA signature of glioblastoma stem cells that were significantly up regulated or down regulated in glioblastoma stem cells relative to neural stem cells.

In line with the findings that a set of miRNAs are differentially expressed in glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells certain miRNAs also exhibit distinct expression profiles in glioblastoma tissues and normal brain tissues. For example it was demonstrated that the expression of miR 874 is dramatically reduced in glioblastoma tissues compared to normal brain tissues. miR 124 another miRNA that was down regulated in glioblastoma stem cells also exhibited reduced expression in glioblastoma tissues in this study consistent with the results of previous glioblastoma tumor tissue profiling Huse et al. 2009 Silber et al. 2008 Clafre et al. 2005 Godlewski et al. 2008 Xia et al. 2012 Skalsky Cullen 2011 Fowler et al. 2011 .

In this study miR 10b was shown to be highly expressed in both glioblastoma stem cells and in glioblastoma tumor tissues. Up regulation of miR 10b was also observed in other glioblastoma samples H use et al. 2009 Clafre et al. 2005 Godlewski et al. 2008 suggesting an important role for miR 10b in glioblastoma tumorigenesis. Moreover a recent study revealed that miR 10b expression is inversely correlated with glioblastoma patient survival Gabriely et al. 2011 . Interestingly miR 10b was also found to be up regulated in breast cancer leukemia and pancreatic cancer and promote tumor invasion and metastasis in breast cancer Ma et al. 2007 Cahn et al. 2004 Bloomston et al. 2007 . Together these results suggest that some miRNAs such as miR 10b may function as a global oncogene to stimulate tumorigenesis in multiple tissues. Likewise miR 124 is also frequently down regulated in other cancers such as medulloblastoma hepatocellular carcinoma and oral squamous carcinoma Li et al. 2009 Furuta et al. 2010 Hunt et al. 2011 suggesting that it may function as a general tumor suppressor. Therefore the knowledge of miRNAs that we have obtained for glioblastoma stem cells may be applicable to other types of cancer stem cells.

Pathway analysis revealed that most of the significantly up regulated miRNAs with more than 5 fold increase in glioblastoma stem cells as shown in the microarray analysis described herein have putative targets in a common pathway the p53 pathway. The dysregulation of the p53 pathway has been shown to be an underlying mechanism for tumorigenesis Junttila Evan 2009 thus the up regulated miRNAs may function as oncomiRs by targeting the p53 pathway if their role in regulating the p53 pathway is confirmed. On the other hand most of the down regulated miRNAs with more than 5 fold decrease in glioblastoma stem cells share their predicted targets in the IGF signaling. Repression of the IGF signaling has been shown to inhibit tumorigenesis Clayton et al. 2011 . Thus these down regulated miRNAs may assume a role of tumor suppressors by targeting components of the IGF pathway if their role in regulating the IGF signaling is confirmed. The identification of miRNAs as oncogenes or tumor suppressors holds the promise of identifying novel diagnostic markers or molecular targets for antitumor therapies. The prediction that the differentially expressed miRNAs have the ability to target multiple components in one or more pathways makes them potential molecular targets for cancer therapy.

Glioblastoma stem cells represent a subpopulation of cancer cells with extraordinary capacities to promote tumor growth invasion and therapeutic resistance making them an ideal target cell population for anti glioblastoma therapies. However a major challenge is to define functional and molecular features that can distinguish cancer stem cells from normal stem cells in order to develop therapeutic strategies that specifically target the tumor population but leave normal stem cells intact. Therefore comparing miRNA expression between glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells is highly relevant in that it may lead to the identification of glioblastoma stem cell specific miRNAs thus resulting in the development of novel glioblastoma therapies by targeting only tumor stem cells. A comparison of the miRNA expression between glioblastoma stem cells from adult glioblastoma patients and normal neural stem cells from human fetal brains was performed. Fetal brains were used instead of human adult brains due to the inaccessibility of normal human adult brain tissues containing neural stem cells. Although differences do exist between embryonic neural stem cells and adult neural stem cells it has been proposed that embryonic neural stem cells resemble adult neural stem cells in many ways Ming Song 2011 . Therefore this comparison will provide useful information regarding glioblastoma stem cell specific miRNA expression and provide a basis for strategic targeting glioblastoma stem cells through modulation of tumor stem cell specific miRNA expression.

miRNAs have been shown to be involved in tumor initiation and progression functioning as oncogenes or tumor suppressor Asadi Moghaddam et al. 2010 Cheng et al. 2010 . Therefore modulation of miRNA expression provides great hope for potential cancer therapy Verissimo et al. 2011 . Furthermore since each miRNA may have more than one targets miRNA based gene therapy offers the therapeutic appeal of targeting multiple gene networks that are controlled by a single miRNA Asadi Moghaddam et al. 2010 . Strategies for miRNA based cancer therapy include overexpression of tumor suppressor miRNAs and targeting oncogenic miRNAs using their antagonists. Based on the miRNA signature that was identified in glioblastoma stem cells targeted glioblastoma therapies may be developed by inhibiting the up regulated miR 10a or miR 10b function using miR 10 antagonists or overexpressing the down regulated miR 124 or miR 874. Of note 16 miRNAs that were up regulated in glioblastoma stem cells 1.5 fold as shown in Table 2 including miR 10a and miR 10b are also up regulated in malignant astrocytomas glioblastomas and anaplastic astrocytomas in a genome wide miRNA expression profiling between malignant astrocytomas and normal brain samples Rao et al. 2010 . Eleven miRNAs that were down regulated in glioblastoma stem cells 1.5 fold as shown in Table 2 including miR 124 are also down regulated in malignant astrocytomas.

Moreover the prognosis of glioblastoma patients remains poor. Biomarkers for this disease are needed for early detection of tumor progression Roth et al. 2011 . The miRNA signature that was identified herein may be used as biomarkers to differentiate glioblastoma stem cells from normal neural stem cells. Recently an miRNA signature was identified in the peripheral blood of glioblastoma patients Roth et al. 2011 . Interestingly several of the miRNAs that showed elevated expression in the blood samples of glioblastoma patients vs healthy control also exhibited increased expression in glioblastoma stem cells vs normal neural stem cells in the study described herein Table 2 including miR 424 miR 148a miR 362 3p miR 30d miR 128. These miRNAs may therefore represent easily accessible biomarkers that can be used for diagnostic purposes in glioblastoma patients.

In the studies described above an miRNA profiling analysis using both microarray and deep sequencing analyses revealed that one of the miRNAs miR 874 was significantly down regulated in glioblastoma stem cells GSCs relative to normal stem cells NSCs . These studies suggest that this miRNA may function as a tumor suppressor. As such the role of miR 874 in GSC growth was characterized in a study using two GSC cell lines derived from WHO grade IV glioblastoma patients PBT017 and PBT707. A lentiviral expression system was used to deliver miR 874 to the two GCS cells lines.

Transduction of the GSC lines with miR 874 expressing lentivirus led to robust expression of miR 874 in both types of cells as shown in PBT017 cells and PBT707 cells . The PBT017 and PBT707 cells overexpressing miR 874 were cultured for approximately 8 10 days to observe miR 874 s effect on cell growth. A growth curve analysis revealed that overexpression of miR 874 led to dramatically reduced cell numbers in both PBT017 and PBT707 glioblastoma stem cell lines as shown in . These results suggest that miR 874 may act as a potential tumor suppressor miRNA and may be used in accordance with the methods for treating cancers e.g. glioblastoma described herein.

The references patents and published patent applications listed below and all references cited in the specification above are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

