---

title: Methods and systems for persistent cross-application mobile device identification
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for persistent cross-application mobile device identification. A mobile device may have a plurality of sandboxes in memory containing applications. The mobile device may have a shared storage which may be accessible by applications from different sandboxes. A storage location identifier may be used to access information in shared storage. A universal device identifier may be stored in the shared storage to identify the mobile device and may be accessible by multiple applications and updates to applications. The universal device identifier may be used to track the mobile device for advertising, fraud detection, reputation tracking, or other purposes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521551&OS=09521551&RS=09521551
owner: The 41st Parameter, Inc.
number: 09521551
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 614 475 filed Mar. 22 2012 which application is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

As the use of networked mobiles devices grows there is a general need for service providers and other third parties to be able to reliably and accurately track the usage patterns of a mobile device. For example in connection with certain fraud detection methods it is important to be able to identify the source device used to commit a fraudulent transaction in order to limit future potential fraudulent transactions from the same device. As another example many advertising and marketing programs must accurately identify the mobile device from which various disparate activities and actions are taken.

Such systems and processes rely upon the ability to consistently and accurately identify the mobile device utilized for participating in such activities. Typically in order to track various user activities an application or a service provider may generate a service specific identifier for each unique user of the application or service. The application will generally include such service specific identifier along with each request from the mobile device made to the service in order for the service to accurately identify the originating user or mobile device.

The mobile device may be capable of storing and executing multiple applications on the same device including applications that are developed by third parties. Such third parties may be untrusted or even unknown to the user of the mobile device and the applications generated thereby may be capable of interfering with other applications executing on the mobile device. For this reason some mobile device operating systems create a sandbox environment for each active application by which the memory storage and other resources made available to one application are isolated from the memory storage and resources made available to any other application.

Accordingly if an application generates and stores a service specific identifier on an iOS enabled device the identifier is stored in the application s sandbox environment and no other application on the iOS enable device may access or use such identifier. As a result the service specific identifier is effective only for use by the specific service that generates it but is not otherwise effective in uniquely identifying the mobile device itself Further each application on the mobile device is required to generate and store its own service specific identifier which will differ from the identifier utilized by every other application on the same mobile device. Accordingly there is no reliable process or system for the mobile device itself to be accurately identified and tracked across a plurality of applications and users on the same mobile device.

Thus a need exists to overcome the service to service or application to application variances in mobile device identification and thereby provide a persistent cross application mobile device identification process and system.

An aspect of the invention is directed to a method for identifying a mobile device comprising determining with aid of a processor whether a universal device identifier of the mobile device exists on the mobile device generating the universal device identifier to identify the mobile device in response to a determination that the universal device identifier does not on the mobile device storing the universal device identifier in a persistent shared storage on the mobile device retrieving the universal device identifier from the persistent shared storage and making available the identifier to a plurality of applications installed on the mobile device.

A system for identifying a mobile device may be provided in accordance with an aspect of the invention said system comprising a memory having a a plurality of application sandboxes an individual sandbox having at least one application therein and b a shared storage and a processor capable of executing steps defined by the plurality of applications wherein the applications are capable of accessing information within the shared storage via a storage location identifier and the applications are not capable of accessing information from other sandboxes.

Another aspect of the invention is directed to a method of identifying a mobile device comprising providing a memory having a a plurality of application sandboxes an individual sandbox having at least one application therein and b a shared storage providing a processor capable of executing steps defined by the plurality of applications permitting the applications to access information within the shared storage via a storage location identifier while not permitting the applications to access information from other sandboxes wherein the information within the shared storage accessed by the applications includes a universal device identifier and performing advertisement tracking of the mobile device using the universal device identifier.

Other goals and advantages of the invention will be further appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and accompanying drawings. While the following description may contain specific details describing particular embodiments of the invention this should not be construed as limitations to the scope of the invention but rather as an exemplification of preferable embodiments. For each aspect of the invention many variations are possible as suggested herein that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art. A variety of changes and modifications can be made within the scope of the invention without departing from the spirit thereof.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While preferable embodiments of the invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

The invention provides systems and methods for identifying mobile devices by a persistent cross application identifier. Various aspects of the invention described herein may be applied to any of the particular applications set forth below. It shall be understood that different aspects of the invention can be appreciated individually collectively or in combination with each other.

It shall be understood that this invention is addressed to mobile device functionality. The mobile devices may include phones such as cellular phones smartphones e.g. iPhone BlackBerry Android Treo tablets e.g. iPad Galaxy Tab Kindle Fire Surface a wireless device such as a wireless email device certain network devices such a tablet personal digital assistants PDAs such as a Palm based device or Windows CE device other devices capable of communicating wirelessly with a computer network or other communication network or any other type of mobile device that may communicate over a network and handle electronic transactions. A mobile device may be handheld. A mobile device may use specialized programs or applications. Any discussion herein of devices may also be applied to any other mobile devices as provided.

As illustrated in the mobile device may have a processor and a memory that may store an operating system OS and a plurality of applications or apps . The memory may be capable of storing non transitory computer readable media comprising code logic or instructions to perform one or more steps such as steps of the apps. A processor may be capable of executing the one or more steps defined by the non transitory computer readable media. The operating system may operate to display a graphical user interface to the user and permit the user to execute one or more apps. Any display known in the art may be used including but not limited to a liquid crystal display a plasma screen a touchscreen an LED screen or an OLED display. The processor may be capable of executing one or more steps of the methods provided herein to identify mobile devices by a persistent cross application unique identifier. The applications may be native functionality incorporated into the OS of the mobile device or may be third party applications installed by the manufacturer carrier network or user of the mobile device.

It shall be understood that the memory of the mobile device may include non removable memory or removable memory. The non removable memory may consist of RAM ROM a hard disk or other well known memory storage technologies. The removable memory may consist of Subscriber Identity Module SIM cards which are well known in GSM communication systems or other well known memory storage technologies such as smart cards. Applications could be installed and or implemented in either the removable memory or the non removable memory. Memory may include volatile and non volatile memory. Volatile memory may include memory that requires power to retain information. Non volatile memory may include memory that can retain information even when it is not powered such as include read only memory flash memory ferroelectric RAM F RAM most types of magnetic computer storage devices e.g. hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape and or optical discs.

It shall be understood that the mobiles devices may have one or more software applications apps to carry out instructions. In some instances one or more of the apps may generate an identifier e.g. device identifier WaferID and store a WaferID in shared storage . One or more steps of the application may be implemented by non transitory and or tangible computer readable media which may contain instructions logic data or code that may be stored in persistent or temporary memory of the mobile device or may somehow affect or initiate action by the computer or other device. In some embodiments only some applications have instructions to generate store or retrieve a device identifier from a shared storage. In some embodiments all applications on the mobile device have instructions to generate store or retrieve a device identifier from a shared storage.

As illustrated in one or more of the applications installed on the mobile device may be restricted in its operations to a sandbox environment. A sandbox is a secure memory space on the mobile device in which such applications are confined and prevented from accessing certain data and resources. For example some sandbox restrictions may prevent an application from accessing certain system resources and data such as critical system files. Applications may be capable of accessing data and resources within the same sandbox as the application. In some instances applications are not capable of accessing data and resources in other sandboxes. Optionally only one application is provided per sandbox. In other instances multiple applications may be provided within the same sandbox if the applications are created distributed and or operated by the same party. Alternatively multiple applications may be provided within the same sandbox even they are not created distributed and or operated by the same party. As further example some sandbox restrictions may prevent an application from accessing the data or resources created and used by another application on the same mobile device. For example an application in a first sandbox may only be able to access data and resources within the same sandbox and may not be able to access data or resources in other sandboxes 

Confinement to a sandbox prevents applications from carrying out potentially dangerous or malicious operations on the mobile device. In some cases the mobile device OS may manage the sandbox and determine the resources that an application is prevented from accessing. For example the Apple iOS operating system used for example on Apple iPhone mobile phones Apple iPad tablets and other mobile devices isolates each application of the mobile device including its respective data and preferences information from other applications. The iOS operating system installs each application in its own application specific storage directory and restricts the application from saving or accessing any application data that is stored external to the application specific storage directory.

In accordance with the invention as illustrated in the mobile device may include a global persistent shared storage accessible by one or more applications on the mobile device. In some instances any of the applications may be able to access the shared storage regardless of which sandbox within which they reside. The shared storage provides applications with data and information storage that is external to the application s sandbox environment on the mobile device. The shared storage may be implemented using removable or non removable non transitory memory on the mobile device. In some embodiments the shared storage is made available to two or more applications on the same mobile device such that each of the applications may have permission to read data from and write data to the same memory location within the shared storage i.e. share the memory . Accordingly the shared storage provides a space for two or more applications to share data or information between the applications without violating the application s sandbox environment restriction on storing or accessing data from outside the application specific storage directory.

The shared storage may provide one or more of the following persistence characteristics for the information stored in the shared storage i the information persists across a reboot or restart of the mobile device ii the information persists across applications iii the information persists across updated versions of applications and or iv the information persists across updated versions of the mobile device OS. It shall be understood that the shared storage may provide more than one of the persistence characteristics set forth above and may provide other persistence characteristics. The shared storage may be provided in non volatile memory such as ROM or any others described herein.

In accordance with the invention the use of the shared storage is controlled by a shared storage manager SSM . The SSM provides an interface and exposes the functionality necessary for applications firmware or the mobile device OS to interact with the shared storage. Accordingly the SSM controls one or more applications access to the shared storage. In some embodiments the mobile device OS may implement the SSM directly. For example the Apple iOS system includes pasteboard functionality that can be used by applications to persistently store and share certain types of data for use by the application or between applications. In some embodiments the SSM may restrict the types of information or data that may be stored in or retrieved from the shared storage. For example the SSM may prevent executable code from being stored in the shared storage in order to restrict applications from performing potentially harmful activities that could interfere with the functionality of another application on the mobile device. As another example the SSM may permit only text strings to be stored to and retrieved from the shared storage.

The SSM provides access to specific information of the shared storage by the use of a storage location identifier. One or more applications may retrieve shared data or information by requesting access from the SSM to the data or information at a specific shared storage location. In some embodiments the storage location identifier may be an alphanumeric key that maps to a value located at a specific storage location and that identifies a specific piece of information. Any application may be able to access the information located at a specific storage location by use of the storage location identifier regardless of the sandbox to which the application belongs. For example an application e.g. App may utilize the SSM to store application preferences data at the shared storage location identified by the key Application.Preferences which may function as the storage location identifier . Subsequently a different application e.g. App may retrieve the preferences data of App by requesting from the SSM the data located at the shared storage location identified by the key Application.Preferences . Thus applications may be able to access the same data or resources stored in a shared storage via the storage location identifier regardless of whether the applications are in the same or different sandboxes.

It shall be understood that the storage location identifier key may be any alphanumeric string and that each unique key shall map to a discrete piece of data or information stored in the shared storage. In some instances the storage location identifier may have any other form that may uniquely identify or index the information in the shared storage.

Another aspect of the invention is directed to generating a persistent universal device identifier UDID for a mobile device referred to herein as a WaferID . Embodiments of the invention generate and maintain a WaferID for every mobile device. The WaferID uniquely identifies a mobile device in the context of an online service a mobile device application or other third party services. The WaferID is an identifier generated on the mobile device and can be separate from any system identifier that is pre loaded by the mobile device OS the mobile device manufacturer or a network carrier. In some embodiments only a single unique WaferID is generated for the mobile device. One or more applications and or services may make use of the WaferID in identifying the device. In some embodiments more than one WaferID may be generated for the mobile device such that a subset of applications and services on the mobile device can make use of the same WaferID in order to uniquely identify the mobile device.

The WaferID may be an alphanumeric string of any length and that is unique within the context of use for every mobile device. The WaferID may have any other form that may permit the unique identification of the mobile device. The WaferID is intended to be persistent and can typically survive a change in the carrier network operating system user and other variables associated with a mobile device. In some instances the WaferID is only deleted upon request of a user or application. In some embodiments the WaferID is generated by a process on the mobile device. It shall be understood that a variety of methods are known for generating an alphanumeric string that is unique for a mobile device. For example the WaferID may be generated by any of a number of known algorithms for generating a random or pseudo random string. In some embodiments the algorithm may be seeded with a date or time to produce a unique WaferID.

The WaferID for a mobile device may be stored in shared storage of the mobile device. The WaferID may be a data or resource stored in the shared storage. The WaferID may be accessible via a storage location identifier. Thus one or multiple applications may access the WaferID via the storage location identifier. This may occur if the applications are in the same sandbox or in multiple sandboxes. Thus multiple applications that may have been created distributed or operated by different applications may make use of the same WaferID which may function as the device ID. This may be useful when multiple applications want to share information about the device.

Thus one or more applications on the same mobile device may share the same WaferID through the use of the shared storage. In some embodiments any application on the mobile device may request access to the WaferID associated with the mobile device. One or more applications of the same mobile device may share data in the shared storage of the mobile device which may or may not be associated with the WaferID.

As further illustrated in the generated WaferID is stored in the shared storage. In accordance with the invention the WaferID is stored the shared storage using a storage location identifier known by the one or more applications that will share the WaferID. In some embodiments the WaferID may be stored in a generally known location such as through the use of a well advertised key as the storage location identifier. In some embodiments the WaferID may be stored in shared storage using a non obvious key as the storage location identifier such as through the use of a key that is not publicly advertised. An application that knows the respective key may retrieve the WaferID from the shared storage location mapped to such key. In some instances multiple applications may know the respective key regardless of where in memory e.g. which sandbox the applications reside.

In some embodiments the method and system disclosed herein may be associated with an application programming interface API or with a software development kit SDK that allows third parties to easily incorporate the functionality for generating storing and using the WaferID. In other embodiments the invention may be associated with the mobile device OS or with firmware associated with components of the mobile device.

If a WaferID already does exist in shared storage the WaferID value is accessed. A storage location identifier may be used to access the WaferID.

As indicated in the cross application WaferID disclosed in this invention may be used in connection with business logic in order to identify a mobile device across applications user contexts and discrete user requests .

In some aspects of the invention the WaferID may be used to maintain a record of activities connected to a specific mobile device. In one embodiment the WaferID may be used for analytics purposes in connection with monitoring advertisement activities. It shall be understood that any known process in the art for providing in application advertisements on a mobile device may be enhanced to use the WaferID. The use of the WaferID in connection with providing advertisements may allow an advertiser to understand usage patterns of the mobile device user across applications. For example an advertiser may be able to track which advertisements are displayed to a specific mobile device regardless of which application is activated at the time the advertisement is displayed. The data from mobile device exposure to advertisements may be used to generate reports and for other analytics purposes.

In some embodiments the WaferID may be used in connection with fraud detection and prevention methodologies. For example a fraud detection and prevention system may identify a potential attacker or threat based on the WaferID associated with such attacker s device.

It may be advantageous for the WaferID to be accessible by multiple applications of a mobile device. For example one or more entity may wish to share advertising or fraud information. In some instances one or more applications may wish to access the same advertising or fraud information regardless of whether they belong to the same entity or different entities. Reputational information may be carried across information. Reputational information may include bad reputation for a user or device e.g. if likely involved in fraud or good reputation for a user or device e.g. if the user or device has a history without any problems . A persistent WaferID may permit multiple applications to access the unique device identifier which may permit information about the device to be tracked across the different applications. Other data may be stored on the shared storage and be accessible by various applications. Such other data may or may not also be useful for advertisement fraud or reputation purposes.

Any of the steps described herein may occur with aid of a processor. The processor may be a processor of the mobile device.

An identification system may include a single device or a plurality of devices . In some embodiments a user may interact with a mobile device. In some instances a user of the system may interact with the system over a network. The user may utilize one or more applications on the mobile device. The user may download applications to the mobile device.

One or more devices may be provided within the system. As previously described a mobile device may have a display. The display may permit a visual display of information. The display may include a display of a browser and or application. A viewable area of a canvas on the display may be a viewport. The display may be provided on a screen such as an LCD screen LED screen OLED screen CRT screen plasma screen touchscreen e ink screen or any other type of display device. The devices may also include displays of audio information. The display may show a user interface. A user of the system may interact with the device through a user interface. A user may interact via a user interactive device which may include but is not limited to a keypad touchscreen keyboard mouse trackball touchpad joystick microphone camera motion sensor IR sensor heat sensor electrical sensor or any other user interactive device. A user may be able to operate and or interact with an application via the display and or user interactive device.

In some embodiments a plurality of devices may be provided in a system. For example two or more 10 or more 100 or more 1 000 or more 10 000 or more 50 000 or more 100 000 or more 500 000 or more 1 000 000 or more 5 000 000 or more 10 000 000 or more 50 000 000 or more 100 000 000 or more or 1 000 000 000 or more devices may be provided. In some embodiments a pre selected group of devices may be provided. Devices may be accessing a software or application on one or more server . Devices may be displaying a browser with content provided through the server. Devices may be capable of operating one or a plurality of applications simultaneously. Devices may be capable of interacting with servers for different entities simultaneously. Devices may be capable of interacting with external devices relating to different applications simultaneously.

The network may be a local area network LAN or wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The network may be a personal area network a telecommunications network such as a telephone network cell phone network mobile network a wireless network a data providing network or any other type of network. The communications may utilize wireless technology such as Bluetooth or RTM technology. Alternatively various communication methods may be utilized such as a dial up wired connection with a modem a direct link such as TI ISDN or cable line. In some embodiments a wireless connection may be using exemplary wireless networks such as cellular satellite or pager networks GPRS or a local data transport system such as Ethernet or token ring over a LAN. In some embodiments the system may communicate wirelessly using infrared communication components.

One two or more servers may be provided in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. A server may include a memory and or a processor. The server may or may not be at a location that is remote to the devices. The server may communicate with the devices over a network. In some instances a cloud computing infrastructure may be provided. Any functions described herein may be carried out using a cloud computing infrastructure such as distributed processing and memory functions. In alternate embodiments peer to peer architectures may be utilized by the system.

The server may store data relating to a website or application to be displayed on a browser on a user s device. The server may store data or access data relating to an application. The server may be operated by a service that may aggregate and or analyze information about one or more devices. A server may provide content to the devices via the network. The server may receive information about the devices. In some instances two way communication may be provided between the devices and the server.

The devices may have corresponding universal device identifiers UDIDs . In some embodiments the universal device identifier for each device may be unique to that device. In some embodiments universal device identifiers may be a unique string of numbers associated with a device that can let developers of apps track their apps. Or when passed between apps. UDIDs allow ad networks for example to build a profile noting user habits and preferences associated with that device which allows them to carefully target their ads. A device may have a single universal device identifier. Alternatively the device may have multiple universal device identifiers. The device identifiers may be accessible by one or more applications of the devices. The device identifiers may be accessible by multiple applications of the devices even if the applications belong to different sandboxes.

When communicating with one or more server that may relate to various applications of the devices the universal device identifiers of the devices may be shared. The one or more server may track the universal device identifiers. The one or more servers may access databases and or memory that may include information relating to the devices associated with the universal device identifiers. Such information may be accessed by servers associated with one or more applications of the device. For example a first server may relate to a first application of a device and a second server may relate to a second application of the device. A universal device identifier of the device may be accessible by the first and second applications of the device. The universal device identifier may be conveyed to the related servers. In some instances relevant information about the device to be accessed by the applications may be stored locally on the device. Alternatively some or all of the information may be stored off board e.g. on the servers .

In some instances one or more external devices such as servers may access information relating to the universal device identifier. For example external servers may have information stored about a mobile device based on its universal device identifier. In some instances a plurality of servers related to different applications may have access to information about the mobile device based on its universal identifier. The plurality of servers may each keep their own records about the mobile device or may access the same data repository about the mobile device. The plurality of servers which may relate to different applications may share information about the mobile device or may keep their own records about the mobile device. The servers may be operated by an entity that operates an application of the mobile device. Alternatively they may be operated by different entities.

A universal device identifier may service as an index or key through which records about the mobile device may be accessed. This may be useful for keeping track of the mobile device for advertisement fraud and or reputation purposes as described herein.

It should be understood from the foregoing that while particular implementations have been illustrated and described various modifications can be made thereto and are contemplated herein. It is also not intended that the invention be limited by the specific examples provided within the specification. While the invention has been described with reference to the aforementioned specification the descriptions and illustrations of the preferable embodiments herein are not meant to be construed in a limiting sense. Furthermore it shall be understood that all aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific depictions configurations or relative proportions set forth herein which depend upon a variety of conditions and variables. Various modifications in form and detail of the embodiments of the invention will be apparent to a person skilled in the art. It is therefore contemplated that the invention shall also cover any such modifications variations and equivalents.

