---

title: Genetic mutations that disrupt dhurrin production in sorghum
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to new forage crops and methods of creating new forage crops. For example, chemical mutagenesis is used to create mutant crops having desirable forage characteristics. In some embodiments, a mutant plant is produced by inducing mutagenesis; producing a population of mutant plants using the treated reproductive portion; assaying the population of mutant for a C493Y mutation in CYP79A1; and growing the mutant plant, wherein the mutant plant exhibits altered dhurrin content or catabolism as compared to a control plant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09512437&OS=09512437&RS=09512437
owner: PURDUE RESEARCH FOUNDATION
number: 09512437
owner_city: West Lafayette
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130816
---
This application is filed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 371 and claims the priority of International Patent Application No. PCT US2013 55256 filed on 16 Aug. 2013 entitled GENETIC MUTATIONS THAT DISRUPT DHURRIN PRODUCTION IN SORGHUM in the name of Mitchell R. TUINSTRA et al. which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 693 974 filed on 28 Aug. 2012 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under EPP A 06 0016 00 awarded by the United States Agency for International Development. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Biochemical studies have shown that plant cyanogenic glucosides are derived from six different amino acids the aliphatic protein amino acids valine isoleucine and leucine the aromatic amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine and the aliphatic nonproteinogenic amino acid cyclopentenyl glycine Jones 2000 Jaroszewski et al. 2002 . Fern and gymnosperm species generally produce cyanogenic glucosides from the aromatic amino acids whereas angiosperms produce cyanogenic glucosides from aliphatic and aromatic amino acids Bak et al. 2006 . Arthropods including millipedes Diploda centipedes Chilopoda beetles Coleoptera and true bugs Heteroptera also produce cyanogenic glucosides that are synthesized from aromatic amino acids or in the case of lepidopterans from aliphatic amino acids Bak et al. 2006 Zagrobelny et al. 2008 .

When plant tissues are disrupted through chewing or tissue maceration the cyanogenic glucosides in the vacuoles are brought into contact with glucosidases and hydroxynitrile lyases that hydrolyze the cyanogenic glucosides and produce HCN Vetter et al. 2000 . This HCN renders the consumption of plant materials containing cyanogenic glucosides toxic to humans and most animals Oluwole et al. 2000 . The affinity of cyanide for the terminal cytochrome oxidase in the mitochondrial respiratory pathway is the main cause of toxicity Brattsten et al. 1983 . A lethal dose of cyanide for vertebrate animals is in the range of 35 150 mol kg 1 but higher amounts can be tolerated if consumed over a longer period Davis and Nahrstedt 1985 . Studies in horses showed that based diets consumed over a 2 month period resulted in incoordination of the hind legs urinary incontinence and haematuria. These symptoms were followed by increased nasal discharge increased body temperature and depression of appetite Varshney et al. 1996 .

Given the toxicity of HCN cyanogenic glucosides are assumed to play a role in plant defense against animal and insect herbivores. The effects of cyanogenic plants in human and animal health is well documented Banea Mayambu et al. 1997 2000 Robinson 1930 Boyd 1938 Webber et al. 1985 Hopkins et al. 1995 . In the case of forage cyanide poisoning resulting in cattle death was first reported in Australia more than a hundred years ago Anon 1897 .

Dhurrin is a cyanogenic glucoside of and dhurrin accumulation in plant tissues negatively impacts forage and feedstock quality. breeders are working to modify dhurrin content to improve forage and biomass quality but are constrained by a lack of natural genetic variation for this trait in the elite gene pool. Mutation breeding is being used to induce mutations in the dhurrin biosynthesis pathways. One mutant was recently identified in Australia that produced no dhurrin in any tissue but exhibited slightly slower growth at early seedling stage. Blomstedt 2012 . Different mutations or alleles that similarly disrupt dhurrin biosynthesis but without impacts on growth may be better suited to commercial product development.

Dhurrin content is highest in young seedlings and can represent as much as 6 to 10 of the dry weight of plants Akazawa et al. 1960 Conn 1994 . Accumulations as high as 30 dry weight have been reported in some parts of seedlings Halkier et al. 1989 . However little is known about the downstream processing and utilization of cyanogenic glucosides in or any other plant species.

Thus there is a need for a low dhurrin or dhurrin free plant that has a standard growth rate compared to existing commercial varieties.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to new forage crops and methods of creating new forage crops. In a specific embodiment the present invention relates to new varieties of that do not produce dhurrin. In a still further embodiment the present invention relates to new varieties of that do not produce dhurrin but have a standard growth rate. In an example the genome is mutated via chemical mutagenesis and mutants are identified that produce no dhurrin. In some embodiments the mutant plants comprise the genetic mutation present in the plant mutants identified as Tx623 EMS 2447 and Tx623 EMS 5085 and hence the mutant plants do not produce dhurrin.

In one embodiment a method of producing a plant with altered dhurrin content or catabolism as compared to a control plant is provided. The method comprises inducing mutagenesis by applying a chemical mutagen to a reproductive portion of a plant producing a population of mutant plants using the treated reproductive portion assaying the population of mutant for altered dhurrin content and growing the mutant plant wherein the mutant plant exhibits altered dhurrin content or catabolism as compared to a control plant.

In some embodiments the mutant plant has the same genetic mutation or mutations that result in lack of dhurrin production in the mutant plants identified as Tx623 EMS 2447 and Tx623 EMS 5085.

In some embodiments the mutant plant exhibits decreased dhurrin content as compared to the control plant. In some embodiments the mutant plant is substantially dhurrin free as compared to a control . In some embodiments the mutant plant exhibits no significant difference in growth rate as compared to the control plant. For example the photosynthetic properties maturation rate and or the biomass accumulation are not significantly different between the mutant plant as compared to the control plant. In an embodiment there is no significant difference in chlorophyll concentration between mutant plants identified as Tx623 EMS 2447 and Tx623 EMS 5085 as compared to control plants. In a further embodiment the mutant plants produce dhurrin but lack the ability to catabolize dhurrin to HCN.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Additionally while embodiments are disclosed as comprising elements it should be understood that the embodiments may also consist of elements or consist essentially of elements. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to new forage crops and methods of creating new crops. Chemical mutagenesis and screening for variation in plants is a promising technique for creating new forage crops with desired traits. Examples of desirable traits for forage crops include but are not limited to crops that do not produce cyanogenic glucosides such as dhurrin crops that do not produce hydrogen cyanides and crops that have a standard growth rate compared to existing commercial varieties.

In some embodiments the crops of the present invention are annual grasses such as members of the Poaceae plant family. The species may also be biennials or perennials depending on cultivar and species. In an exemplary embodiment the crop is a member of the genus such as the cultivated species can grow in arid solids and withstand prolonged droughts. It has a large root to leaf surface area and will roll its leaves in times of drought to lessen water loss by transpiration. is a C4 plant and hence it has improved photosynthetic efficiency and reduced water loss in hot or dry environments. Development of with altered dhurrin content or catabolism is therefore desirable as it improves a highly drought tolerant forage crop. Dhurrin free forage crops are less likely to sicken domesticated animals when used as a feed.

In a set of three hundred genotypes from a panel of conversion lines and advanced breeding lines Casa et al. 2008 was screened to determine the extent of natural genetic variation for dhurrin content in . The initial survey utilized a spectrometric approach to estimate differences in dhurrin content among lines Gorz et al. 1977 . Genotypes representing the phenotypic extremes of predicted dhurrin content were re analyzed by HPLC. These experiments demonstrated a 5 fold variation among lines with a few entries showing extremely high or low dhurrin content. None of the genotypes represented a dhurrin free phenotype.

Researchers have attempted to improve as a forage crop through breeding programs. Unfortunately the lack of genetic variation in dhurrin production has made it difficult to breed crop varieties that do not produce dhurrin.

Chemical mutagenesis is a process by which the genes of an organism are changed by exposure to chemical mutagens. In an embodiment ethyl methanesulfonate can be used as a chemical mutagen to produce a population of mutants having a greater range of variation in dhurrin content than available in the natural gene pool. Ethyl methanesulfonate is a mutagenic organic compound with the formula CHSOCH. Ethyl methanesulfonate produces random mutations in genetic material by nucleotide substitution. In an embodiment ethyl methanesulfonate may be applied to seeds to induce genetic mutations in the seed genomes.

In some embodiments chemical mutagenesis is used to produce crops with altered cyanogenic glucoside composition. In an exemplary embodiment ethyl methanesulfonate EMS mutagenesis is used to produce with lowered dhurrin content. Annual grasses such as sorghums spp. are appealing candidates for creating new forage crops. As used herein the term refers to all of the spp. including hybrids.

In one embodiment a method of producing a plant with altered dhurrin content or catabolism as compared to a control plant is provided. The method comprises inducing mutagenesis by applying a chemical mutagen to a reproductive portion of a plant producing a population of mutant plants using the treated reproductive portion assaying the population of mutant for altered dhurrin content and growing the mutant plant wherein the mutant plant exhibits altered dhurrin content or catabolism as compared to a control plant.

In some embodiments the chemical mutagen is ethyl methanesulfonate. Alkaloids such as diethyl sulfate DES or dimethyl sulfate may be used instead of or in addition to ethyl methanesulfonate. Other chemical mutagens may also be used.

In some embodiments the mutated plant exhibits altered dhurrin content or catabolism in the form of decreased dhurrin content as compared to the control plant. In some embodiments the mutated plant exhibits altered dhurrin content or catabolism in the form of substantially no dhurrin content as compared to the control plant. In an embodiment substantially no dhurrin content means dhurrin content undetectable by standard lab procedures. In some embodiments the mutated plant exhibits altered dhurrin content or catabolism in the form of decreased or zero dhurrin content while retaining a standard growth rate. In one embodiment the mutation of the plants results in at least one plant not producing dhurrin while still having a standard as opposed to reduced growth rate at all stages of plant development compared to existing commercial varieties. The control plant can be a wild type plant a commercial or hybrid variety or any other plant suitable for the purpose of comparison. In a still further embodiment the mutant plant produces dhurrin but lacks at least one enzyme in the catabolic stages to convert dhurrin to HCN.

As noted above development of forage crops with altered dhurrin content or catabolism is desirable as it improves forage quality possibly by reducing or removing the production of HCN. In many plant bioenergy crops such as barley L. and cassava Crantz. dhurrin is produced and causes HCN to be produced when the biomass is crushed macerated or otherwise disturbed. Further dhurrin content increases during times of plant stress or nitrogen enrichment. The availability of dhurrin free forage biomass with low or no dhurrin reduces threats to livestock.

Having discussed the importance of as a forage crop the problem of dhurrin content in and the limitations related to producing dhurrin free varieties an example is now provided disclosing the production of two dhurrin free varieties. An exemplary flowchart of the method used to produce forage crops having altered dhurrin concentration is presented in . In this example ethyl methanesulfonate EMS mutagenesis was used to produce a population of mutants having a greater range of variation in dhurrin content than available in the natural gene pool. Approximately 1.5 kg seeds of BTx623 the genotype of the sequenced genome were treated with 45 mM EMS and the seeds were planted under field conditions . The M1 panicles were allowed to self pollinate then hand harvested and threshed to produce approximately 12 000 M2 families.

Next the M2 families were screened for variation in dhurrin metabolism by planting seeds in sand benches in a greenhouse and evaluating 10 12 young seedlings per family at the 2 to 3 leaf stage. A portion of the upper leaf was sampled into 96 well plates and frozen at 80 C. overnight. In the morning the plates were covered with Feigl Anger paper Feigl and Anger 1966 and thawed at 35 C. for 30 minutes. Blue spots on the Feigl Anger paper indicated release of HCN from the leaf tissue . depicts the results of the Feigl Anger paper assay for mutants Tx623 EMS 2447 and Tx623 EMS 5085 as compared to the wild type. This high throughput assay provided a powerful screen for identification of plants compromised in dhurrin biosynthesis or catabolism.

In some embodiments the nucleotide sequence for Tx623 EMS 2447 and Tx623 EMS 5085 or other mutants depicting impaired dhurrin concentration can be determined the mutant sequence compared to the wild type sequence and the genetic mutation responsible for the decreased dhurrin concentration determined . In a still further embodiment of the method this genetic mutation can be incorporated into forage crops in order to produce a mutated forage crop having altered dhurrin production .

A comparison of HCN release in numerous pairs of white and green siblings from M2 families segregating for albinism showed that even albino plants produce large quantities of HCN. This indicated that photosynthesis was not required for dhurrin accumulation in young seedling tissues. The dhurrin produced in albino tissues must be synthesized from precursors stored and released from the endosperm reserves. Based on these results mutants identified in a screen for HCN release may not only indicate lesions in dhurrin metabolism but also genes involved in precursor biosynthesis and transport.

A forward genetic screen of 5 000 M2 families identified several mutants impaired in HCN production. HPLC analysis was used to determine if these mutants were capable of producing dhurrin. Plants were grown in a greenhouse. The youngest fully expanded leaf from seedlings and adult plants was sampled and the fresh weight recorded. The leaf samples were then immersed in 50 methanol maintained at 75 C. for 15 minutes to inactivate the catabolic enzymes. The samples were ground and suspended in 500 l of 50 methanol. A Shim pack XR ODS column 3.0 75 mm 2.2 mm Shimadzu Kyoto Japan was used to analyze the samples as previously described De Nicola et al. 2011 . The results from these studies indicated that many mutants that could not produce HCN were able to produce dhurrin. These mutants represent lesions in genes associated with dhurrin catabolism.

However as shown in mutant plants from Tx623 EMS 2447 and Tx623 EMS 5085 did not produce dhurrin Table 1 . Note also that the wild type genotope when used as a comparison produced 24.1 mol g FW.

The mutant plants grew normally and showed no differences in relative greenness at 53 days after planting Table 2 .

Analyses of plant growth at 91 days after planting showed no significant differences in plant dry weight Table 3 .

Analysis of genetic inheritance of these mutations showed that the mutations were recessive Table 4 . Analysis of segregating families derived from Tx623 EMS 2447 indicated segregation ratios consistent with the effects of a single major recessive gene.

Whole genome sequencing of Tx623 EMS 2447 and Tx623 EMS 5085 genotypes showed that both mutants harbored a C493Y mutation in the CYP79A1 gene that disrupts dhurrin biosynthesis. The wild type SEQ ID NO 1 and mutant SEQ ID NO 2 amino acid sequences are disclosed in . The cysteine to tyrosine mutation at position 493 in CYP97A1 disrupts dhurrin biosynthesis.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a method of producing a plant having the genetic mutation or mutations present in Tx623 EMS 2447 and or Tx623 EMS 5085 such that the plant does not accumulate dhurrin or release HCN. In an embodiment the method comprises inducing mutagenesis by applying a ethyl methanesulfonate to a seed of a plant producing a population of mutant plants using the treated seeds assaying the population of mutant for mutant plants having the mutation present in Tx623 EMS 2447 or Tx623 EMS 5085 and growing the mutant plant wherein the mutant plant exhibits substantially zero dhurrin content as compared to a control plant. In some embodiments the genetic mutation is a genetic mutation that is highly homologous to the genetic mutation in Tx623 EMS 2447 or Tx623 EMS 5058. The homology may be as high as for example 60 65 70 75 80 85 80 95 or 100 at the nucleotide sequence level. Other methods of introducing the C493Y mutation in CYP79A1 into plants or plant cells are possible. For example a recombinagenic oligonucleotide can be introduced into a plant cell using any method commonly used in the art including but not limited to microcarriers biolistic delivery microfibers electroporation and microinjection.

In some embodiments the Tx623 EMS 2447 or Tx623 EMS 5085 plant exhibits altered dhurrin content or catabolism in the form of decreased dhurrin content as compared to the control plant. In some embodiments the Tx623 EMS 2447 or Tx623 EMS 5085 plant exhibits altered dhurrin content or catabolism in the form of zero dhurrin content as compared to the control plant. In some embodiments the Tx623 EMS 2447 or Tx623 EMS 5085 plant exhibits altered dhurrin content or catabolism in the form of decreased e.g. zero dhurrin content but retaining a standard growth rate as compared to the control plant. The control plant can be a wild type plant a commercial or hybrid crop variety or any other plant suitable for the purpose of comparison.

The Tx623 EMS 2447 and Tx623 EMS 5085 mutants described in this disclosure were shown to be dhurrin free. Whole genome sequencing of the Tx623 EMS 2447 and Tx623 EMS 5085 genotypes showed that both mutants harbored a C493Y mutation in the CYP79A1 gene that disrupts dhurrin biosynthesis . These mutants do not produce measurable dhurrin and do not exhibit a slow growth phenotype.

Although this description mainly refers to using embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the Tx623 EMS 2447 and Tx623 EMS 5085 genotypes it should be appreciated that these embodiments may be used to induce other mutations in for modulating or altering dhurrin content or catabolism.

Given the normal growth pattern of these dhurrin free mutants the dhurrin free mutants identified in this disclosure may provide an alternative genetic resource for modifying dhurrin production in . On a national and global scale development of dhurrin free grain forage and biomass cultivars has the potential to replace corn and other forage crops that have lower water use efficiency characteristics resulting in reduced water requirements for irrigation.

Specific embodiments of the invention are described herein. Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which the invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments and combinations of embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

