---

title: Highly directive array aperture
abstract: An apparatus and method is provided that utilizes sonar array discontinuities for increasing the directivity gain of a sonar system by increasing the ratio of trace wavelengths (replicated) to the length of a fixed array aperture. Impedance discontinuities, or blocking masses, are embedded in a matrix material of fixed length to create Bragg scattered longitudinal displacements of a wavelength. The longitudinal displacements are induced by an incident acoustic plane wave. This creates longitudinal replicas of the displacements, shifted in wave number, creating a scaled acoustic trace wavelength. The replicated trace wavelength is sampled and resolved, thereby increasing the directivity gain of a sonar system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08873340&OS=08873340&RS=08873340
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08873340
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130213
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The invention relates generally to sonar arrays with acoustic discontinuities and more particularly to increasing the directivity gain of a sonar array aperture by measuring particle motion of Bragg scattered longitudinal waves induced in the array as a result of incident waves that encounter the array.

It is often desirable to determine the direction from which an acoustic signal arrives with as much accuracy as possible. Accordingly increased gain in array directivity especially at very low frequencies is desired and sought by sonar designers.

The following patents and publication show various types of acoustic arrays with coatings and discontinuities that have been utilized in the past to solve various problems.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 808 970 to Nussbaum et al. issued Sep. 15 1998 discloses a sonar array uses multiple acoustically transparent layers. One layer is a linear array of acoustic sensors that is substantially acoustically transparent. Another layer is an acoustically transparent wiring assembly that provides electrical connection to each acoustic sensor. A third acoustically transparent layer is a planar array of signal processing circuits coupled to the wiring assembly for processing electrical signals generated by the acoustic sensors. Each signal processing circuit resides within an area that is in geometric correspondence with a respective one acoustic sensor. Each signal processing circuit can include a preamplifier an analog to digital converter and a digital multiplexer.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 262 944 to Meyer et al. issued Jul. 17 2001 discloses an acoustic array including a plurality of acoustic sensors positioned at predetermined telemetry points for measuring the acoustic energy from the surrounding environment. The acoustic sensors are each positioned within a fluid filled pocket in the acoustic array wherein each the various fluid filled pockets are separated from each other by a section of solid fill buoyant material. The sections of solid fill material control the buoyancy of the acoustic array. The acoustic array is surrounded by a longitudinally extending outer hosewall which encloses the acoustic array and forms the fluid filled pockets between the sections of solid fill material. A strength member is extended longitudinally throughout the length of the acoustic array to provide a load bearing mechanism for distributing longitudinal tensile loads applied to the acoustic array while support spacers are situated within the acoustic array to provide radial support for the acoustic array. The acoustic array is formed of a lightweight and electrically passive structure which allows water to be used as the fill fluid for the pockets. Using water as the fill fluid provides an environmentally safe fill fluid having buoyancy characteristics which are not significantly altered by its mixture with water from the surrounding environment should a rupture in the hosewall occur.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 206 258 to Fisher et al. issued Apr. 17 2007 discloses an array of pressure sensors and motion sensors contained in a layered material system that includes an acoustically compliant layer and an acoustically transparent layer. The compliant layer which vibrates in accordance with acoustical influence thereupon is the foundation for both sensor types and is the vibratory medium for motion sensing. The transparent layer is the matrix for both sensor types and is the window permitting sound waves to reach the pressure sensors which sense pressure of the sound waves and the compliant layer the vibration of which is sensed by the motion sensors . The compliant layer s exposed surface can be attached to a structure s exterior for passive sonar detection purposes. Since the pressure sensors are effective primarily for low frequency sound waves and the motion sensors are effective primarily for high frequency sound waves the invention is aggregately effective for a broad band spanning low and high frequencies.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 536 913 to Naluai et al. issued May 26 2009 discloses an underwater acoustic sensor designed for attachment to a rigid or semi rigid mounting structure. The sensor includes an outer casing and a secondary casing spaced therefrom. A compliance layer is disposed between the inner surface of the outer casing and the outer surface of the secondary casing. An inner sensor support is designed to attach to the mounting structure and is spaced from the inner surface of the secondary casing. A plurality of sensor elements are disposed between and interconnect the inner surface of the secondary casing and the sensor support.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 633 206 to Andle et al. issued Dec. 15 2009 discloses reflective and slanted array channelized sensor arrays having a broadband source providing acoustic energy to a reflective or slanted array that reflects a portion of the incident signal to one or more sensing films wherein the response is measured.

The above patents and publications do not show discontinuities formed in the array that create replica waves having smaller wavelengths that are used to increase the directivity of the array. Those of skill will appreciate the present invention which provides improved directivity of a sonar array.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an array for sonar systems having improved directivity.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a sonar system capable of shifting and physically reducing the spatial period of an acoustic trace wavelength.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following descriptions taken in connection with the accompanying drawings wherein by way of illustration and example an embodiment of the present invention is disclosed. However it will be understood that the present invention is not limited to the above and or other objects of the invention.

In accordance with one embodiment the present disclosure provides a method for making a sonar array with high directivity. The sonar array is provided with a coating material in which the acoustic wave induces a longitudinal wave along a length of the coating material. A plurality of blocking members are positioned in the coating material operable to interfere with the longitudinal wave to create smaller replica waves between the blocking members. A plurality of sensors are provided between the blocking members. These sensors are operable to detect particle motion of the replica waves between the blocking members. A signal processor is operatively coupled to signal processor to the plurality of sensors. The signal processor can utilize measurements of the particle motion to determine an incident angle of the acoustic wave. In one embodiment the plurality of sensors can be operable to detect particle motion in a direction perpendicular to a normal of the sonar array.

The method may further include spacing the blocking masses periodically within the coating material. The blocking masses can be substantially planar members oriented to be parallel to a normal of the sonar array. The blocking masses can also extend through the coating. The provided blocking masses can have a width much smaller than a length of the sonar array and the blocking mass material can be have a different acoustic impedance than the coating material. The coating material can have an acoustic impedance similar to the operating environment acoustic impedance.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a sonar array for receiving an acoustic wave in an operating environment is disclosed. The sonar array includes a coating in which the acoustic wave induces a longitudinal wave along a length of the coating. The coating is composed primarily of a coating material having a plurality of blocking members positioned therein. The blocking members interfere with the longitudinal wave. A plurality of sensors are positioned in the coating material between the blocking members. These sensors can detect particle motion between the blocking members. A signal processor coupled to the sensors utilizes measurements of particle motion to determine an incident angle of the acoustic wave. The sensors may be operable to detect particle motion in a direction perpendicular to a normal of the sonar array. In one embodiment the blocking masses are spaced periodically within the coating material. The blocking masses can also be substantially planar members oriented to be parallel to a normal of the sonar array and extend through the coating. The blocking masses can have a width much smaller than a length of the sonar array and can be more rigid or compliant than the coating material. The coating material can have an acoustic impedance similar to the operating environment acoustic impedance. The coating may be a polymeric material.

The present invention detects characteristics of acoustic wave propagation within a coating containing periodic or non periodic impedance discontinuities or blocking masses . As discussed in more detail subsequently a coating refers to a finite layer of material such as polyurethane which separates sonar array elements from the external environment. Coatings such as acoustic windows acoustic baffles and outer decouplers can be used to enhance acoustic signals maintain array element positional tolerances and prevent element damage.

Referring now to the drawings shows vector sensor array subjected to an incident acoustic plane wave traveling through medium . Incident acoustic plane wave has an amplitude P. Medium has a density and a speed of sound c. Plane wave makes an incident angle with respect to a normal to vector sensor array . When it impinges on vector sensor array acoustic plane wave induces longitudinal wave in vector sensor array .

Vector sensor array includes plurality of sensors positioned in a matrix . In one possible embodiment matrix is preferably made from a polymeric material although matrix could be composed of other materials which perform as described herein. Vector sensor array has an aperture length given by L. Matrix has a density and a speed of sound c. A plurality of sensors are capable of detecting longitudinal waves produced in matrix .

Preferably plurality of sensors are velocity vector sensors which are capable of detecting velocity in the direction shown by arrows which are perpendicular to normal . However more generally plurality of sensors can measure any type of particle motion within the matrix due to longitudinal waves including but not limited to displacement velocity and acceleration. In one possible preferred embodiment matrix would have acoustic impedance similar to that of the operating environment .

Impedance discontinuities or blocking masses are positioned in matrix at preset intervals between each sensor . As indicated in the figures the blocking masses can be relatively thin in the longitudinal as compared to the longitudinal length of the array. Blocking masses can have a minimal width as long as they present a sufficiently different impedance to reflect longitudinal waves. This occurs when either the densities of the materials are different or the elasticities are different. A greater acoustic impedance difference provides a more efficient reflection however a sufficient reflection is achieved utilizing a polymer matrix and metallic blocking masses. The blocking masses may extend completely through matrix and may be oriented parallel to normal of the array which is perpendicular to longitudinal wave . The blocking masses can be planar elements of a uniform size. As shown the centers of masses are separated from each other by a periodic separation distance l. However the invention is not limited to regular intervals and may comprise other intervals groups or sections of intervals or the like. Blocking masses can be any material causing a periodic discontinuity that interferes with longitudinal wave . This material can be a more rigid polymeric material or a highly rigid relatively thin material such as a metallic material. The material comprising blocking mass has a density given by . Pass and stop band behaviors of array are controlled by the material properties of blocking masses . The periodic positioning of blocking masses scatters longitudinal wave into repeating smaller longitudinal wave replicas of longitudinal wave .

The incident angle is obtained using conventional beamforming. Longitudinal wavelength is scattered utilizing Bragg scattering due to blocking masses and creates longitudinal wavelength replicas in the direction of arrows . These longitudinal wavelength replicas have a smaller wavelength as compared with the original longitudinal wavelength . Without blocking masses vector sensor array could only sample wavelength and performance would be limited by the Nyquist sampling theorem providing for less accurate performance.

For example across the length L there may be only about two longitudinal original wavelengths as suggested in . When blocking masses are added to matrix longitudinal wavelengths remain. However additional longitudinal wavelength replicas are also created which are smaller in comparison to longitudinal wavelength . The wavelength of longitudinal wavelength replicas depends on element length l and density of blocking masses .

In the non limiting example of the configuration shown blocking masses create around ten longitudinal wavelength replicas over array aperture length L. Sensors can measure the particle motion associated with each of these longitudinal wavelength replicas. Measuring more wavelengths of longitudinal wavelength replicas A within a given length L increases the directivity of vector sensor array as compared to measuring wavelength meaning that vector sensor array provides a better estimate of arrival angle .

Blocking masses preserve the angular dependence of longitudinal wavelength or incident trace wavelength and arrival angle . One possible example of beamforming as described hereinafter can be used to determine a maximum response angle for longitudinal wavelength .

In order to determine incident angle the following procedure can be used. The trace wave number k is expressed as sin 1 

with A being a constant value. A conventional beamformer essentially looks for a maximum that is when does where n 0 1 2 etc. When 1 2 

then all the acoustic energy is arriving at direction . Circular ambiguity is resolved because plurality of sensors measures a vector quantity with positive numbers along one direction of an axis and negative numbers along another.

In summary the present invention utilizes acoustic impedance discontinuities to increase the directivity of an array by essentially increasing the ratio of the number of replicated wavelengths to the length of a fixed array aperture. The discontinuities are preferably periodic repeating blocking masses or impedance discontinuities embedded in a polyurethane material or similar matrix of fixed length. The longitudinal displacements excited and induced by an incident acoustic plane wave are Bragg shifted in wave number thus creating a scaled acoustic trace wavelength. The replicated trace wavelength is appropriately sampled and resolved increasing the directivity of the sonar system.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

