---

title: Method of COremoval from a gasesous stream at reduced temperature
abstract: Generally the applicable HO sorption/desorption processes may be conducted at temperatures less than about 70° C. and pressures less than 1.5 atmospheres, with certain operations conducted at temperatures less than about 50° C.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08888895&OS=08888895&RS=08888895
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08888895
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130910
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

One or more embodiments of the present invention relate to the removal of HO and COfrom a gaseous stream by contacting the gaseous stream with HO and COremoval sorbents followed by regeneration of the HO and COremoval sorbents under specific conditions.

Carbon dioxide from fossil fuel combustion and industrial processes is a major target in current emission reduction strategies. In particular post combustion COcapture from the flue gas is a key technology option for retrofitting the existing fleet of power stations. Capture of COfrom large point sources such as fossil fueled power plants is a major concern in any strategy intended to reduce anthropogenic COemissions.

Generally approaches for the selective removal of acid gases such as carbon dioxide from these large point sources have utilized aqueous amines such as monoethanolamine MEA diethanolamine DEA diglycol amine DGA N methyldiethanolamine MDEA and 2 amino 2 methyl 1 propanol AMP . This effort has largely extended from successful uses in applications such as gas streams in natural gas refinery off gases and synthesis gas processing however those particular gas streams are generally at high pressures. These approaches suffer when applied to COcapture from fossil fueled based flue gases which present large volumetric flow rates at low total pressure temperature generally around 100 150 C. large amounts of COat low partial pressure and significant HO content. As a result large scale applications are hindered by a variety of challenges such as cost of scale up energy cost of regeneration solvent degradation the potential environment impacts of the solvents and others.

Another approach to post combustion COcapture from large point sources has utilized reversible COcapture by solid removal sorbents. These solid removal sorbents can provide advantages compared to other techniques such as reduced energy for regeneration greater capacity selectivity ease of handling and others. In particular the regeneration energy requirement for COcapture using solid removal sorbents is significantly less than the aqueos amine based process because of the absence of large amounts of water and comparatively lower heat capacities. A variety of solid materials have been utilized including porous carbonaceous materials zeolites alumina silica gels and metal organic frameworks. However the presence of water vapor which is an inevitable component in flue gas may negatively affect the capacity of these removal sorbents and reduces the availability of the active surface area.

Solid removal sorbents such as zeolites and others can become easily deactivated by moisture in the gas process stream. Current state of the art COremoval techniques generally involve either capturing moisture with the COor removing the moisture prior to capturing the CO. Removing the moisture prior to capture can be costly in both capital and energy since typically the moisture removal sorbent must be heated for sorbent regeneration. See e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 419 513 by Jain published as U.S. Pub. No. 2010 0251887 published Oct. 7 2010 see also Ishibashi et al. Technology for Removing Carbon Dioxide from Power Plant Flue Gas by the Physical Adsorption Method 37 1996 . These processes typically detail moisture removal sorbent regenerations at temperatures of at least 80 C. and in some situations up to 300 C. in order to fully regenerate the HO removal sorbent and remove substantially all adsorbed moisture before re use in a cycle. The additional heat required for these temperatures is supplied through some means such as power plant steam or electrical heating and dramatically increase plant efficiencies associated with capture. In some cases moisture removal requires more than 30 of the total energy of the COremoval process.

It would be advantageous if a post combustion COremoval process utilizing a solid removal sorbent were available where HO could be reduced prior to COcapture in a more economical manner. It would particularly advantageous if the process could utilize relatively low temperature and pressures for the HO and COsorption mitigating the impact on overall efficiency. It would be additionally advantageous if the process could effectively utilize the low partial pressures of various gases in existing process streams and operate the cycle with an HO removal sorbent which is only partial regenerated in order to avoid the relatively high penalties associated the full regeneration processes typically employed.

Disclosed here is a method for the removal of HO and COfrom a gaseous stream such as a flue gas where the method utilizes first and second stage regenerations to affect an overall regeneration sufficient for a cyclic operation. The first and second regenerations utilize the low partial pressures of COand HO within the process streams of the method and are effective at relatively low temperatures and pressures. The regenerations generally act only to remove moisture layers contained in the multi layers bound to an initial monolayer on the various described HO removal sorbents allowing the Gibbs free energy of mixing to largely compensate for the heats of reaction and largely avoiding the additional heats required for removal of the initial monolayer. Generally the applicable HO sorption desorption processes may be conducted at temperatures less than about 70 C. and pressures less than 1.5 atmospheres with certain operations conducted at temperatures less than about 50 C.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The present disclosure is directed to a method for the removal of HO and COfrom a gaseous stream comprising HO and CO such as a flue gas. The method generally comprises i contacting the gaseous stream and an HO removal sorbent at a first temperature and transferring a portion of the HO to the HO removal sorbent and generating a wet HO sorbent and a dry gaseous stream ii contacting the dry gaseous stream and a COremoval sorbent at a second temperature and generating a loaded COsorbent and a dry COreduced stream iii conducting a first stage regeneration by contacting the dry COreduced stream and the wet HO sorbent at a third temperature and transferring a first quantity of HO from the wet HO sorbent and generating a partially regenerated HO removal sorbent and an HO exhaust stream iv heating the loaded COremoval sorbent to a fourth temperature and desorbing a gaseous CO generating a regenerated COremoval sorbent and a heated COstream v conducting a second stage regeneration by contacting the heated COstream and the partially regenerated HO sorbent at a fifth temperature and transferring a second quantity of HO from the partially regenerated HO sorbent and generating a regenerated HO removal sorbent and a COexhaust stream and vi using the regenerated HO sorbent as the HO sorbent and using the regenerated COremoval sorbent as the COsorbent and repeating the preceding steps in a cyclic process.

The use of the various process streams to affect a first and second stage regeneration in this manner allows relatively low temperature partial pressure changes to affect an overall regeneration sufficient for a cyclic operation that incorporates some degree of HO removal prior to contact with a COsorbent. The method is particularly advantageous for COremoval operations where the presence of HO above certain levels may be detrimental to the COsorbent. The first and second regenerations typically provide only a partial regeneration of the HO sorbent such that the various HO sorbents retain an initial monolayer of moisture throughout the cycle while moisture layers bound to the initial monolayer are removed. This approach enables relatively low temperature and pressure operation by allowing the Gibbs free energy of mixing to compensate for the heat of reaction required to remove the additional moisture layers while avoiding the necessity to provide additional heat of reaction for removal of the initial monolayer. The method thus largely utilizes the Gibbs free energy of mixing enabled through the partial pressure swings generated by both the dry COreduced stream and the heated COstream for effective moisture removal allowing the relatively low temperature and pressure operation.

In an embodiment the first temperature the second temperature the third temperature and the fifth temperature are less than 70 C. In a further embodiment the first temperature the second temperature and the third temperature are less than 50 C. and the fifth temperature is greater than 50 C. In another embodiment the various operations described by the cycle are conducted at a pressure less than 1.5 atmospheres. The method is particularly advantageous for COremoval operations where the presence of HO above certain levels may be detrimental to the COsorbent.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a method for the removal of HO and COfrom a gaseous stream comprising HO and CO.

Generally the present disclosure is directed to a method for the removal of HO and COfrom a gaseous stream comprising HO and CO such as a flue gas. Generally the method initially utilizes and HO sorbent to remove some portion of the HO producing a dry gaseous stream and a wet HO sorbent. The dry gaseous stream is subsequently contacted with a COsorbent to remove some portion of the CO generating a dry COreduced stream and a loaded COsorbent. The loaded COsorbent is subsequently heated to produce a heated COstream.

The wet HO sorbent and the dry COreduced stream are subsequently contacted and a first quantity of the HO transferred from the gaseous stream is removed from the wet HO sorbent generating a partially regenerated HO sorbent. Following this the partially regenerated HO sorbent and the heated COstream are contacted and a second quantity of the HO transferred from the gaseous stream is removed from the partially regenerated HO sorbent producing a regenerated HO sorbent. The use of a first and second stage regeneration in this manner allows relatively low temperature partial pressure changes to affect an overall regeneration sufficient for a cyclic operation which incorporates some degree of HO removal prior to contact with a COremoval sorbent. The method is particularly advantageous for COremoval operations where the presence of HO above certain levels may be detrimental to the COremoval sorbent.

Generally the first and second regenerations are expected to only provide a partial regeneration of the HO removal sorbent such that the various HO removal sorbents retain an initial monolayer of moisture and typically the dry COreduced stream and the heated COstream only act to remove moisture layers bound to the initial monolayer. This approach enables relatively low temperature and pressure operation by allowing the Gibbs free energy of mixing to compensate for the heat of reaction required to remove the additional moisture layers while avoiding the necessity to provide additional heat of reaction for removal of the initial monolayer. The method thus largely utilizes the Gibbs free energy of mixing enabled through the partial pressure swings generated by both the dry COreduced stream and the heated COstream for effective moisture removal allowing the relatively low temperature and pressure operation. Generally the applicable HO sorption desorption processes may be conducted at temperatures less than about 70 C. and pressures less than 1.5 atmospheres with certain operations conducted at temperatures less than about 50 C.

A general description of the embodiment of the low temperature COremoval process is illustrated at . At a gaseous stream Gcomprised of COand HO contacts an HO removal sorbent at a first temperature. HO removal sorbent sorbs some portion of the HO in gaseous stream G transferring HO from gaseous stream Gto HO removal sorbent . The transfer of HO from gaseous stream Ggenerates wet HO removal sorbent and dry gaseous stream G. Dry gaseous stream Gis generally gaseous stream Gless the HO transferred from gaseous stream Gto HO sorbent while wet HO sorbent generally comprises HO removal sorbent and the HO transferred from gaseous stream Gand sorbed on HO removal sorbent . Correspondingly dry gaseous stream Ggenerally comprises the COfrom gaseous stream Gwith a reduced amount of HO.

In an embodiment the first temperature is less than 70 C. In another embodiment the first temperature is less than 50 C. and the moisture content of gaseous stream Gis less than 10 volume percent vol. . In a further embodiment gaseous stream Gand dry HO removal sorbent are contacted at a Gas Hourly Space Velocity GHSV of less than about 1500 h. In an additional embodiment dry gaseous stream Ghas a moisture content of less than 0.1 volume percent vol. HO and in still another embodiment dry gaseous stream Ghas a moisture content between 0.1 vol. and 0.02 vol. . In still another embodiment contact between gaseous stream Gand a dry HO removal sorbent occurs at a pressure less than 1.5 atmospheres.

Following production of dry gaseous stream G dry gaseous stream Gis contracted with COremoval sorbent at a second temperature. COremoval sorbent sorbs some portion of the COremaining in gaseous stream G transferring COfrom dry gaseous stream Gto COremoval sorbent . The transfer of COfrom dry gaseous stream Gto COremoval sorbent generates loaded COremoval sorbent and dry COreduced stream G. Dry COreduced stream Gis generally dry gaseous stream Gless the COtransferred from dry gaseous stream Gto COremoval sorbent while loaded COremoval sorbent generally comprises COremoval sorbent and the COtransferred from dry gaseous stream Gand sorbed on COremoval sorbent . In an embodiment the second temperature is less than 70 C. In a further embodiment the second temperature is less than 50 C. In still another embodiment contact between dry gaseous stream Gand a COremoval sorbent occurs at a pressure less than 1.5 atmospheres.

Having now generated dry COreduced stream Gand HO removal sorbent wet HO removal sorbent is partially regenerated through contact with dry COreduced stream Gat a third temperature. The contact transfers a first quantity of HO from wet HO removal sorbent to dry COreduced stream G where the first quantity of HO is an amount of the HO transferred from gaseous stream Gto HO removal sorbent . The contact additionally generates partially regenerated HO removal sorbent and HO exhaust stream G. Partially regenerated HO removal sorbent generally comprises wet HO removal sorbent less the amount of HO transferred to dry COreduced stream Gfrom wet HO removal sorbent while HO exhaust stream Ggenerally comprises dry COreduced stream Gand the amount of HO transferred to dry COreduced stream Gfrom wet HO removal sorbent .

As indicated contact between dry COreduced stream Gand wet HO removal sorbent generally provides only a partial regeneration of wet HO removal sorbent so that following this contact partially regenerated HO removal sorbent typically retains a significant fraction of the HO sorbed onto wet HO removal sorbent . In an embodiment wet HO removal sorbent has a first moisture content and partially regenerated HO removal sorbent has a second moisture content where the second moisture content is equal to at least 50 of the first moisture content. Here first moisture content means the mass of HO sorbed on wet HO removal sorbent following the contact between HO removal sorbent and gaseous stream G and second moisture content means the mass of HO sorbed on partially regenerated HO removal sorbent following the contact between wet HO removal sorbent and dry COreduced stream G. Here and elsewhere within this disclosure HO sorbed when used in reference to an HO removal sorbent means HO adsorbed or absorbed on a non HO material comprising the HO removal sorbent and HO hydrogen bonded to one or more HO molecules were the one or more HO molecules are adsorbed or absorbed on the non HO material. Further within this disclosure the mass of HO sorbed on a particular removal sorbent means the total mass of HO sorbed by the comprehensive mass of the particular removal sorbent designated either following or preceding a described gaseous contact. For example if wet HO removal sorbent comprises a plurality of individual removal sorbent pellets where the plurality has been contacted with dry COreduced stream G the mass of HO sorbed on wet HO removal sorbent refers to the total mass of HO sorbed by the plurality of individual removal sorbent pellets comprehensively following contact with dry COreduced stream G.

Moisture contents as described here may be determined using various means known in the art. For example the moisture contents for a specific HO removal sorbent under a given set of expected or experienced conditions such as temperature total pressure partial pressure of surrounding gases and other physical parameters may be determined using moisture sorption isotherms for the specific HO removal sorbent. Alternatively moisture contents may be determined experimentally for a given HO removal sorbent based on reproduction of the expected or experienced conditions. See e.g. Bell L. N. and Labuza T. P 2nd Ed. 2000 .

In another embodiment the partial regeneration is reflected by a first mass flow rate of HO in gaseous stream Gcompared to a second mass flow of HO in HO exhaust stream G where the second mass flow rate of HO is less than 70 of the first mass flow rate of HO. For example gaseous stream Gmay have a first mass flow rate of HO of about 4.5 kg h prior to contact with dry HO removal sorbent while HO exhaust stream Ghas a second mass flow rate of HO of about 2.5 kg h following contact with wet HO removal sorbent such that the second mass flow rate is about 56 of the first mass flow rate. In another embodiment the second mass flow rate is greater than about 40 and less than about 70 of the first mass flow rate.

This particular approach of partial regeneration allows for utilization of relatively reduced temperatures during the contact. Correspondingly the integrated nature by which the preceding processes combine to generate dry COreduced stream Gmay similarly be conducted at relatively reduced temperatures avoiding the necessity of additional heat inputs. For example contact between gaseous stream Gand HO removal sorbent contact between dry gaseous stream Gand COremoval sorbent and contact between dry COreduced stream Gand wet HO removal sorbent may be conducted at temperatures less than about 50 C. and pressures less than about 1.5 atmospheres.

Further regeneration of partially regenerated HO removal sorbent occurs through regeneration of loaded COremoval sorbent and generation of heated COstream G. Loaded COremoval sorbent is heated to a fourth temperature through the heat input Q and the loaded COremoval sorbent desorbs the COgained during the contact between dry gaseous stream Gand COremoval sorbent at the second temperature. The fourth temperature is greater than the second temperature. The increased temperature causes loaded COremoval sorbent to desorb gaseous COand regenerated COremoval sorbent where regenerated COremoval sorbent generally comprises loaded COremoval sorbent less the gaseous COdesorbed. Additionally at least some portion of the gaseous COdesorbed comprises heated COstream G. In a particular embodiment the fourth temperature is greater than 160 C.

Having now generated heated COstream Gand partially regenerated HO removal sorbent partially regenerated HO removal sorbent is further regenerated through contact with heated COstream Gat a fifth temperature. The contact transfers a second quantity of HO to heated COstream Gfrom partially regenerated HO removal sorbent where the second quantity of HO is another amount of the HO transferred from gaseous stream Gto HO removal sorbent . The contact further generates regenerated HO removal sorbent and COexhaust stream G. Regenerated removal sorbent generally comprises partially regenerated HO removal sorbent less the second quantity of HO transferred to heated COstream Gfrom partially regenerated HO removal sorbent while COexhaust stream Ggenerally comprises heated COstream Gand the second quantity of HO transferred to heated COstream Gfrom partially regenerated HO removal sorbent .

Due to the partial regeneration of wet HO removal sorbent conducted earlier in the process COexhaust stream Gand HO exhaust stream Gwill have a combined mass flow rate of HO generally equal to the first mass flow rate of HO in gaseous stream G. In an embodiment COexhaust stream Gexhibits a third mass flow rate of HO where the third mass flow rate is less than about 60 of the first mass flow rate. In another embodiment the third mass flow rate is greater than about 30 and less than about 60 of the first mass flow rate. In a further embodiment the third mass flow rate of HO in COexhaust stream Gis less than the second mass flow rate of HO in HO exhaust stream G so that a majority of the first mass flow rate of HO entering the process via gaseous stream Gexits via HO exhaust stream G.

Having produced both regenerated HO removal sorbent and generated COremoval sorbent the steps of the process are repeated using regenerated HO removal sorbent as HO removal sorbent and using regenerated COremoval sorbent as COremoval sorbent as represented by process paths Pand Prespectively.

The first and second regenerations within the process disclosed are generally intended to remove some portion of the sorbed HO while leaving an initial monolayer of HO intact. Generally moisture loadings on HO removal sorbents comprise an initial monolayer sorbed on non HO removal sorbent materials accompanied by additional upper layers of HO where the additional upper layers are retained through isosteric sorption with the initial monolayer. The heat of reaction necessary to remove the initial monolayer greatly exceeds that required to remove an additional upper layer. For example in an HO removal sorbent of activated alumina about 40 kJ mol might be required to remove the initial monolayer while only about 3 10 kJ mol may be required to remove an additional upper layer. However the Gibbs free energy of mixing when moisture is introduced into a sweeping gas is estimated at around 8 kJ mol. Thus by providing an HO removal sorbent regeneration whereby typically only the additional upper layers of moisture are removed while the initial monolayer is largely retained the Gibbs free energy of mixing largely compensates for the 3 10 kJ mol required without an attendant heat of reaction penalty.

Within the particular cycle disclosed here the generally low temperatures employed leave the initial monolayer of HO sorbed onto HO removal sorbent intact in order to avoid the high heats of reaction required to remove that monolayer. Generally within this disclosure the contact between dry COreduced stream Gand wet HO removal sorbent as well as the contact between heated COstream Gand partially regenerated HO removal sorbent is only intended to remove moisture layers bonded to the initial monolayer of HO sorbed on HO removal sorbent rather than the initial monolayer itself. Such an approach avoids the high energy penalties associated with desorption of the initial monolayer of HO while retaining sufficient HO removal capabilities in the HO removal sorbent. The relatively low temperatures allows the two stage regeneration to provide sufficiently viable moisture removal capability over the cycle while greatly mitigating energetic losses from an associated power cycle responsible for providing the heating requirements. As a result in an embodiment the first temperature the second temperature the third temperature and the fifth temperature are less than 70 C. In a further embodiment the first temperature the second temperature and the third temperature are less than 50 C. In another embodiment the first temperature the second temperature and the third temperature are greater than 25 C. and less than 50 C.

Additionally allowing retention of the initial monolayer of moisture on the HO removal sorbent throughout the cycle enables effective swing processes based largely on changes in partial pressure providing for effective sequential use of the various streams generated over the process. By typically removing only the additional upper layers of moisture while the initial monolayer is largely retained the greatly reduced HO partial pressures of dry COreduced stream Gand heated COstream Gare effective for sufficient moisture removal based on the shifts in partial pressures alone and in a manner that allows the Gibbs free energy of mixing to compensate in a manner that avoids the otherwise necessary heat penalties. Correspondingly the absorption process producing wet HO removal sorbent and the sequential regeneration processes producing partially regenerated HO removal sorbent and regenerated HO removal sorbent may all be conducted under substantially equivalent total pressure conditions. This provides clear advantage in terms of necessary energy input into the process. Correspondingly in an embodiment contact between gaseous stream Gand HO removal sorbent contact between dry gaseous stream Gand COremoval sorbent contact between dry COreduced stream Gand wet HO removal sorbent and contact between heated COstream Goccurs at a total pressure of less than 1.5 atmospheres. In another embodiment contact between gaseous stream Gand HO removal sorbent contact between dry gaseous stream Gand COremoval sorbent contact between dry COreduced stream Gand wet HO removal sorbent and contact between heated COstream Gand partially regenerated HO removal sorbent occurs at a total pressure between 0.8 and 1.2 atmospheres.

Reflecting the intended retention of retaining at least some portion of the initial monolayer of HO on the HO removal sorbent throughout the process in an embodiment regenerated HO removal sorbent has a third moisture content where third moisture content means the mass of HO sorbed on regenerated HO removal sorbent following the contact between partially regenerated HO removal sorbent and heated COstream G. In this embodiment the third moisture content is at least 30 of the first moisture content of wet HO removal sorbent and at least 50 of the second moisture content of partially regenerated HO removal sorbent . Similarly and reflecting the use of regenerated HO removal sorbent as HO removal sorbent in the cyclic process in an embodiment HO removal sorbent has an initial moisture content where initial moisture content means the mass of HO sorbed on HO removal sorbent prior to the contact between HO removal sorbent and gaseous stream G and the initial moisture content is at least 30 of the first moisture content of wet HO removal sorbent . In another embodiment the initial moisture content is at least 50 of the second moisture content of partially regenerated HO removal sorbent .

The HO removal sorbent may be any material which acts to sorb HO when placed in contact with a first gaseous stream having a first partial pressure of HO and acts to desorb HO when placed in contact with a second gaseous stream having a second partial pressure of HO where the first partial pressure is greater than the second partial pressure. In an embodiment the HO removal sorbent has a greater chemical affinity for HO than CO where chemical affinity refers to the tendency of HO or COto aggregate on or bond with the HO removal sorbent. See e.g. IUPAC 2nd ed. 1997 among others. In an embodiment the HO removal sorbent is a material having a specific surface area greater than 300 mper gram of the material and a pore volume greater than 0.40 ml per grain of the material. In a further embodiment the HO removal sorbent is an activated alumina comprising AlO a 3A or 4A zeolite comprising aluminum silicon and oxygen a silica gel comprising NaSiO or mixtures thereof. In another embodiment the HO removal sorbent is an absorbent clay comprising an aluminum phyllosilicate such as but not limited to bentonite ball clay fuller s earth kaolin attapulgite hectorite meerschaum palygorskite saponite sepiaolite common clay and fire clay.

The COremoval sorbent may be any material which acts to sorb COwhen placed in contact with a gas stream comprising COat the second temperature and acts to desorb COwhen heated to the fourth temperature. In an embodiment the COremoval sorbent is a solid sorbent. See e.g. Samanta et al. Post Combustion COCapture Using Solid Sorbents A Review 51 2012 among others. In a further embodiment the COremoval sorbent comprises a 13X zeolite.

A particular embodiment of the process disclosed is illustrated at . At . A gaseous stream comprising COand HO enters HO capture reactor at inlet . The gaseous stream entering at inlet has a temperature of about 40 C. The gaseous stream may be for example a flue gas stream cooled to about 40 C. and comprising about 20 wt. CO about 5 wt. HO balance largely N. HO capture reactor establishes the gaseous stream and an HO removal sorbent at a first temperature of about 40 C. and a pressure less than about 1.5 atmospheres and the gaseous stream contacts the HO removal sorbent removing some portion of the HO from the gaseous stream generating a wet HO removal sorbent and producing a dry gaseous stream at a temperature of about 40 C. In a particular embodiment the dry gaseous stream has a moisture content between 0.1 vol. and 0.02 vol. . The dry gaseous stream is discharged from HO capture reactor and enters COcapture reactor via conduit . The wet HO removal sorbent exits HO capture reactor and enters first HO regeneration reactor via conduit .

In an embodiment the gaseous stream entering at inlet derives from a flue gas stream. The flue gas stream has a temperature greater than 40 C. and typically 55 60 C. and is composed of about 20 wt. COand about 10 wt. HO. The flue gas stream is cooled by heat transfer to a cooling medium in cooler to the temperature of about 40 C. and the HO content is reduced by about 50 to around 5 wt. with the removed water issuing through exit .

COcapture reactor establishes the dry gaseous stream and a COremoval sorbent at a second temperature of about 40 C. and a pressure less than about 1.5 atmospheres and the dry gaseous stream contacts the COremoval sorbent removing some portion of the COfrom the dry gaseous stream generating a loaded COremoval sorbent and producing a dry COreduced stream at a temperature of about 40 C. The dry COreduced stream is discharged from COcapture reactor and enters first HO regeneration reactor via conduit . The loaded COremoval sorbent exits COcapture reactor and enters COregeneration reactor via conduit .

First HO regeneration reactor establishes the dry COreduced stream entering via conduit and the wet HO removal sorbent entering via conduit at a third temperature of about 40 C. and a pressure less than about 1.5 atmospheres and the dry COreduced stream contacts the wet HO removal sorbent transferring an amount of HO from the wet HO removal sorbent to the dry COstream generating a partially regenerated HO removal sorbent and producing an HO exhaust stream at a temperature of about 40 C. The HO exhaust stream is discharged from first HO regeneration reactor via exhaust and partially regenerated HO removal sorbent exits first HO regeneration reactor and enters second HO regeneration reactor via conduit .

In an embodiment the wet HO removal sorbent entering first HO regeneration reactor via conduit has a first moisture content and the partially regenerated HO removal sorbent exiting first HO regeneration reactor via conduit has a second moisture content and the second moisture content is equal to at least 50 of the first moisture content.

In another embodiment a first moisture content transfer rate is equal to a mass of the HO sorbed the wet HO removal sorbent entering first HO regeneration reactor via conduit per unit time and similarly a second moisture content transfer rate is equal to a mass of the HO sorbed on the partially regenerated HO removal sorbent exiting first HO regeneration reactor via conduit per unit time. In this embodiment the second moisture content transfer rate is equal to at least 50 of the first moisture content transfer rate.

In a further embodiment the gaseous stream entering HO capture reactor at inlet exhibits a first mass flow rate of HO and the HO exhaust stream discharging from first HO regeneration reactor via exhaust exhibits a second mass flow rate of HO and the second mass flow rate of HO is less than 70 of the first mass flow rate of HO. In a further embodiment the second mass flow rate of HO is greater than about 40 and less than about 70 of the first mass flow rate of HO.

As described loaded COremoval sorbent exits COcapture reactor and enters COregeneration reactor via conduit . COregeneration reactor heats the loaded COremoval sorbent to a fourth temperature of greater than about 160 C. and generally about 200 C. desorbing a gaseous CO generating a regenerated COremoval sorbent and producing a heated COstream. The heated COstream exits COregeneration reactor and enters second HO regeneration reactor via conduit and the regenerated COremoval sorbent exits COregeneration reactor and enters COcapture reactor via conduit . The regenerated COremoval sorbent is subsequently utilized as the COremoval sorbent within COcapture reactor .

COregeneration reactor may use any means known in the art to heat the loaded COremoval sorbent and desorb the gaseous CO. In an embodiment a COflushing stream comprising some portion of the heated COstream is withdrawn from conduit via conduit and passed through heating unit receiving heat from for example a steam flow through element . The COflushing stream issues from heating unit and enters COregeneration reactor providing the heat duty necessary to heat the loaded COremoval sorbent to a temperature of greater than about 160 C. and generally about 200 C. Further in an embodiment heat transfer from the regenerated COremoval sorbent transferring in conduit to the loaded COremoval sorbent transferring in conduit through for example regenerative heat exchanger further reduces the heat duty required by COregeneration reactor .

Second HO regeneration reactor establishes the heated COstream entering via conduit and the partially regenerated HO removal sorbent entering via conduit at a fifth temperature of about 60 C. and a pressure less than about 1.5 atmospheres and the heated COstream contacts the partially regenerated HO removal sorbent transferring a mass of HO from the partially regenerated HO removal sorbent to the heated COstream generating a regenerated HO removal sorbent and producing a COexhaust stream at a temperature of about 60 C. The COexhaust stream is discharged from second HO regeneration reactor via exhaust and regenerated HO removal sorbent exits second HO regeneration reactor and enters HO capture reactor via conduit . The regenerated HO removal sorbent is subsequently utilized as the HO removal sorbent within HO capture reactor .

In an embodiment the regenerated HO removal sorbent exiting second HO regeneration reactor via conduit has a third moisture content and the third moisture content is at least 30 of the first moisture content of the wet HO removal sorbent entering first HO regeneration reactor via conduit . In another embodiment the third moisture content is at least 50 of the second moisture content of the partially regenerated HO removal sorbent entering second HO regeneration reactor via conduit .

In another embodiment a third moisture content transfer rate is equal to a mass of the HO sorbed on the regenerated HO removal sorbent exiting second HO regeneration reactor via conduit per unit time and the third moisture content transfer rate is at least 30 of the first moisture content transfer rate of the sorbed HO entering first HO regeneration reactor via conduit . In another embodiment the third moisture content transfer rate is at least 50 of the second moisture content transfer rate of the sorbed HO entering second HO regeneration reactor via conduit .

In an additional embodiment the COexhaust stream discharging from second HO regeneration reactor via exhaust exhibits a third mass flow rate of HO and the third mass flow rate of HO is less than about 60 of the first mass flow rate of HO exhibited by the gaseous stream entering HO capture reactor at inlet . In a further embodiment the third mass flow rate of HO is greater than about 30 and less than about 60 of the first mass flow rate of HO. In another embodiment the third mass flow rate of HO is less than the second mass flow rate of HO exhibited by the HO exhaust stream discharging from first HO regeneration reactor via exhaust .

Within this disclosure transport of removal sorbents via conduits and may be accomplished in a variety of ways including moving bed arrangements fluidized transfer of pellets and other means known to those skilled in the art. Similarly the transport of various streams through conduits and may be motivated in a variety of ways including a pump a pressure differential between the reactors and other means known to those skilled in the art.

HO capture reactor COcapture reactor first HO regeneration reactor and second HO regeneration reactor may be any vessel known in the art and sufficient to accept a gaseous stream accept the various removal sorbents described initiate contact between the gaseous stream and the various removal sorbents described and discharge a gaseous stream and a contacted removal sorbent subsequent to the contact while maintaining specified pressure and temperature conditions during the contact. COregeneration reactor may be any vessel known in the art and sufficient to accept the loaded COremoval sorbent heat the loaded COremoval sorbent sufficiently to desorb gaseous CO and discharge a heated COstream and a regenerated COremoval sorbent subsequent to the contact while maintaining specified pressure and temperature conditions during the heating. For example HO capture reactor COcapture reactor first HO regeneration reactor COregeneration reactor and second HO regeneration reactor may be a packed or fluidized bed reactor or may incorporate moving beds for transport of the various removal sorbents into and out of the reactor.

Thus provided here is a method for the removal of HO and COfrom a gaseous stream comprising HO and CO such as a flue gas. The method utilizes first and second stage regenerations and relatively low temperature partial pressure changes to affect an overall regeneration sufficient for a cyclic operation incorporating HO and COremoval. The first and second regenerations generally provide retention of the initial monolayer of moisture on the various described removal sorbents and typically only act to remove moisture layers bound to the initial monolayer allowing the Gibbs free energy of mixing to largely compensate for the heats of reaction and largely avoiding the additional heats required for removal of the initial monolayer. Generally the applicable HO sorption desorption processes may be conducted at temperatures less than about 70 C. and pressures less than 1.5 atmospheres with certain operations conducted at temperatures below 50 C.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

