---

title: Automated contactless access device location system and method
abstract: A method is disclosed. The method includes receiving transaction data in an authorization request message from an access device, where the transaction data is associated with a merchant and a transaction location. The method also includes analyzing the transaction data to determine if a location database comprises location data corresponding to the merchant associated with the transaction data, and adding the transaction location and information regarding the access device to the location database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129281&OS=09129281&RS=09129281
owner: Visa International Service Association
number: 09129281
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130206
---
The present application is a non provisional application of and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 595 448 filed on Feb. 6 2012 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

When conducting financial transactions it has become increasingly common that a consumer may present a portable consumer device such as a credit card that has the ability to communicate with a merchant s point of sale POS terminal or other access device using some form of contactless communication. This may eliminate the need for traditional swiping of the payment device and also enables the use of alternate payment devices such as virtual wallets on mobile phones .

Until adoption of contactless access devices by merchants and other institutions becomes more common consumers may have a difficult time determining where contactless payment devices are accepted. This may force customers to carry both traditional and contactless payment methods thus reducing the potential benefits of using contactless payment devices.

It is also difficult to determine where contactless access devices are located. Many merchants may install contactless access devices e.g. contactless POS terminals but many consumers may not know that those merchants have installed contactless access devices and are willing to accept contactless payment devices. Those merchants may consequently lose business. Traditional methods for determining the locations of contactless access devices include using human beings to go and personally visit merchants and record where these access devices would be used. This is inefficient.

It would be desirable to provide for a more efficient way to determine the location of a contactless access device. It would also be desirable to provide consumers with better ways to determine which merchants or locations might accept contactless payment devices.

Embodiments of the invention provide for improvements in locating contactless access devices and storing those locations in a database. The database can be accessed by consumers to find the locations of such access devices. In other embodiments individuals can access the database to perform determine where such contactless access devices are used for analytics and the like.

Embodiments of the invention allow issuers to add location data corresponding to contactless access devices to a location database. Issuers may also define custom mapping parameters to be added to a mapping database. The mapping parameters may be used to determine map data sent to consumers associated with issuers.

Embodiments of the invention also enable a server computer in a payment processing network or other system to retrieve location data from transactions and add the transaction location data to the location database. A location server computer uses the location database and the mapping database to electronically transmit map data to a software application. The software application may use the map data to generate a map showing nearby contactless access devices allow a user to filter the depicted contactless access devices on the map display information about the contactless access devices and perform actions relating to the contactless access devices.

One embodiment of the invention is directed to a computer implemented method comprising receiving mapping parameters wherein the mapping parameters provide parameters for generating a map receiving location data corresponding to contactless access devices and adding to a location database the location data corresponding to the contactless access devices. The method also comprises adding to a mapping database the mapping parameters. Another related embodiment can be directed to server computer comprising a processor and a non transitory computer readable medium. The computer readable storage medium comprises code executable by the processor for performing the method.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a method comprising receiving transaction data in an authorization request message from an access device wherein the transaction data is associated with a merchant and a transaction location. The method also comprises analyzing the transaction data to determine if a location database comprises location data corresponding to the merchant associated with the transaction data and adding the transaction location and information regarding the access device to the location database. Another related embodiment can be directed to server computer comprising a processor and a non transitory computer readable medium. The computer readable storage medium comprises code executable by the processor for performing the method.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a method comprising transmitting by a software application running on a computing device a location associated with the computing device and receiving map data from a location server. The map data is operable by the software application to cause the computing device to display a map wherein locations of contactless access devices nearby to the location associated with the computing device are shown filter for contactless access devices wherein one or more of the nearby contactless access devices may be hidden from the map based on a filter and display information associated with a contactless access device.

Further details regarding embodiments of the invention can be found in the Detailed Description and the Figures.

Prior to discussing embodiments of the invention description of some terms may be helpful in understanding embodiments of the invention.

A server computer may include a powerful computer or cluster of computers. For example the server computer can be a large mainframe a minicomputer cluster or a group of servers functioning as a unit. In one example the server computer may be a database server coupled to a Web server. The server computer may be coupled to a database and may include any hardware software other logic or combination of the preceding for servicing the requests from one or more client computers. The server computer may comprise one or more computational apparatuses and may use any of a variety of computing structures arrangements and compilations for servicing the requests from one or more client computers.

An access device may refer to any suitable device for communicating with merchant and for interacting with a portable consumer device. An access device can be in any suitable location such as at the same location as a merchant. An access device may be in any suitable form. Some examples of access devices include POS terminals cellular phones PDAs personal computers PCs tablet PCs hand held specialized readers set top boxes electronic cash registers ECRs automated teller machines ATMs virtual cash registers VCRs kiosks security systems access systems Websites and the like. Typically an access device may use any suitable contact or contactless mode of operation to electronically transmit or receive data from a portable consumer device.

A contactless access device may refer to an access device that may communicate using short range wireless communications. This may comprise any method of providing short range wireless communications capability such as RFID Bluetooth infra red or other data transfer capability that can be used to exchange data between a portable consumer device and an access device. In some embodiments short range wireless communications may be in conformance with a standardized protocol or data transfer mechanism e.g. ISO 14443 NFC . Short range wireless communication in financial transactions typically comprises communications at a range of less than 2 meters but preferably over much shorter distances .

A communications channel may include any suitable path for communication between two or more entities. Suitable communications channels may be present directly between two entities such as a client computer and a gateway server or may include a number of different entities. Any suitable communications protocols may be used for communications channels according to embodiments of the invention.

A communications device may include any suitable device operable to communicate over a wired or wireless computer network. Examples of communications devices may include server computers desktop computers laptop computers tablets mobile phones or microcomputers.

 Electronically as in for example electronically receiving storing transmitting sending etc. may comprise any suitable manner of transferring utilizing receiving any information or data that is in electronic form. For example this may comprise utilizing a network such as the Internet a wireless network or LAN but is not so limited. As another example electronically may include optical transmission reception radio frequency transmission reception or any other manner of transmitting receiving storing or processing data in electronic form.

 Geo location may refer to the physical location of an object in the world. This may be described in any suitable manner such as by longitude and latitude coordinates or by a more identifiable venue such as a city or street address or point of interest or proximity thereto .

A contactless consumer device or contactless payment device may refer to any suitable device that allows a transaction to be conducted with a merchant using short range wireless communications. A contactless consumer device may be in any suitable form. For example suitable contactless consumer devices can be hand held and compact so that they can fit into a consumer s wallet and or pocket e.g. pocket sized . They may include smart cards magnetic stripe cards keychain devices such as the Speedpass commercially available from Exxon Mobil Corp. Visa payWave devices etc. Other examples of portable consumer devices include cellular phones personal digital assistants PDAs pagers contactless payment cards security cards access cards smart media transponders and the like.

 Location data may refer to any data associated with a location of a contactless access device. Location data may relate to information regarding a physical location of an access device or can include data that provides a location for an access device. Examples of location data may include a location name corresponding to a contactless access device location geo data or geo location for an access device or merchant that uses access devices access device properties associated with the location a location image URL a location icon URL a location description etc.

The term mapping parameter may refer to any parameter or indication which may be used to influence the manipulation of map data to display a map. Examples of mapping parameters may include an issuer identifier an issuer group service provider identifier pre populated location data identifiers location type filters merchant acquirer filters contactless access device filters etc.

 Map data may include any data used to display a map or any data that can be provided in conjunction with a map. The map may be a map of contactless access devices. Map data may also comprise properties of the contactless access devices such as the make and model of the devices and technologies supported by the devices. Map data may also comprise information regarding the a merchant bank ATM or other institution associated with contactless access devices such as addresses phone numbers customer ratings hours of operation and issuers and acquirers associated with the institutions.

Embodiments of the invention provide for many technical advantages. For example embodiments of the invention allow users of contactless payment devices to quickly and conveniently determine nearby merchants financial institutions and other institutions with contactless access devices that support contactless transactions. The user may also filter the contactless access devices so that only devices with specific characteristics are shown. By allowing the user to easily determine the geo locations of nearby contactless access devices the user may be further encouraged to adopt contactless consumer devices.

Embodiments of the invention also provide the advantage of enabling merchants and financial institutions to advertise their support for contactless transactions. In embodiments of the invention only merchants and financial institutions with contactless access devices may be displayed on a map viewed by users. Thus merchants or financial institutions supporting contactless technology and entered into a location database would be viewable by an additional group of users namely those searching for support for contactless transactions.

Embodiments of the invention provide the further advantage of combining records of contactless access devices that may have previously been stored in multiple independent databases. Embodiments of the invention disclose a method for adding location data associated with an issuer to a location database for contactless access devices. Providing a single location database allows users to query the database for all contactless access devices nearby to a location. This allows users of the location database to quickly and conveniently determine all contactless access devices nearby a location without having to search multiple databases.

In addition embodiments of the invention provide the technical advantage of generating location data from transaction data. Generating location data from transaction data addresses a problem with maintaining a location database namely how location data is added to the database and kept up to date. Transaction data provides a useful source of location data of an access device. When contactless access devices are used for payment transactions they may generate authorization request messages that may be transmitted to a payment processing network. In some embodiments of the invention such as when the location database may be managed by a payment processing network the payment processing network may analyze these messages to determine whether the transaction involved contactless payment. If so in some embodiments of the invention the corresponding location data may be added or updated in the location database. This allows the location database to be maintained with greatly reduced human effort in comparison to manually accounting for each contactless access device. In addition such methods can enable additional logic governing the presence of contactless access devices in the location database. For example contactless access devices which have not generated an authorization request message for a transaction for a given period of time e.g. 6 months may be removed from the location database. This allows the location database to better reflect available and active contactless access devices. The database is updated in a very efficient manner in embodiments of the invention since transaction messages e.g. authorization request message are used for both database updates as well as transaction processing. Additional communications regarding the contactless access devices are not required and this also saves on communications bandwidth.

Embodiments of the invention provide for the technical advantage of allowing issuers to customize maps generated for the consumers associated with an issuer by defining a set of mapping parameters. Mapping parameters may allow an issuer to display information specifically relevant to consumers associated with the issuer. For example in some embodiments an issuer may only want to display contactless access devices that are compatible with a contactless technology used by the issuer. Thus the issuer may define a mapping parameter for a filter to only display contactless access devices of certain makes or models which are known to be compatible with the contactless technology. In some embodiments an issuer may only want to display ATMs or bank branches associated with the issuer. In such a case the issuer may define a mapping parameter for a filter on contactless access devices not operated by the issuer. In general mapping parameters allow a consumer to get the benefits of a centralized database while allowing issuers the ability to tailor map data received by consumers to the specific preferences associated with the issuer.

As will be described in further detail below the payment processing network that may include a location server computer and a location database. The location server computer and the location database may be linked to the various entities in the system via the communications network . The communications network may comprise any suitable network s such as the Internet or a mobile cellular network. This enables each of the entities to receive information from the location database such as geo location and or descriptive information as well as to potentially submit information to update the location database e.g. a merchant may indicate the make and model of an access device that they are using and the issuers may request reports and analysis relating to the contactless access devices in the location database submit financial services location information and or provide information for creating custom mappings .

As used herein an issuer may typically refer to a business entity e.g. a bank that maintains financial accounts for the consumer and often issues a contactless consumer device such as a credit or debit card to the consumer . A merchant is typically an entity that engages in transactions and can sell goods or services. An acquirer is typically a business entity e.g. a commercial bank that has a business relationship with a particular merchant or other entity. Some entities can perform both issuer and acquirer functions. Some embodiments may encompass such single entity issuer acquirers. Each of the entities e.g. merchants and issuers may comprise one or more computer apparatuses to enable communications through the communications network or to perform one or more of the functions described herein.

The payment processing network may include data processing subsystems networks and operations used to support and deliver certificate authority services authorization services exception file services and clearing and settlement services. An exemplary payment processing network may include VisaNet . Payment processing networks such as VisaNet are able to process credit card transactions debit card transactions and other types of commercial transactions. VisaNet in particular includes a VIP system Visa Integrated Payments system which processes authorization requests and a Base II system which performs clearing and settlement services.

The payment processing network may include a server computer. A server computer is typically a powerful computer or cluster of computers. For example the server computer can be a large mainframe a minicomputer cluster or a group of servers functioning as a unit. In one example the server computer may be a database server coupled to a Web server. The payment processing network may use any suitable wired or wireless network including the Internet. As noted above in some embodiments the location server computer and or location database may be located at the payment processing network or the payment processing network may provide data to the location server computer and or the location database.

In a typical purchase transaction the consumer purchases a good or service at merchant A using contactless consumer device such as an NFC enabled phone. The user s contactless consumer device can interact with a contactless access device A at the merchant A . For example the user may tap the contactless consumer device against an NFC reader in the contactless access device A .

An authorization request message is generated by the contactless access device A and is then forwarded to the acquirer A . After receiving the authorization request message the authorization request message is then sent to the payment processing network . The payment processing network then forwards the authorization request message to the corresponding issuer A of the contactless consumer device .

An authorization request message may be an electronic message that is sent to a payment processing network and or an issuer of a payment card to request authorization for a transaction. An authorization request message according to some embodiments may comply with ISO 8583 which is a standard for systems that exchange electronic transaction information associated with a payment made by a consumer using a payment device or payment account. The authorization request message may include an issuer account identifier that may be associated with a payment device or payment account. An authorization request message may also comprise additional data elements corresponding to identification information including by way of example only a service code a CW card verification value a dCW dynamic card verification value an expiration date etc. . . . An authorization request message may also comprise transaction information such as any information associated with a current transaction such as the transaction amount merchant identifier merchant location etc. as well as any other information that may be utilized in determining whether to identify and or authorize a transaction. The authorization request message may also include other information such as information that identifies the access device that generated the authorization request message information about the location of the access device etc.

After the issuer A receives the authorization request message the issuer A sends an authorization response message back to the payment processing network to indicate whether or not the current transaction is authorized or not authorized . The payment processing network then forwards the authorization response message back to the acquirer A . The acquirer A then sends the response message back to the merchant A .

An authorization response message may be an electronic message reply to an authorization request message generated by an issuing financial institution or a payment processing network. The authorization response message may include by way of example only one or more of the following status indicators Approval transaction was approved Decline transaction was not approved or Call Center response pending more information merchant must call the toll free authorization phone number. The authorization response message may also include an authorization code which may be a code that a credit card issuing bank returns in response to an authorization request message in an electronic message either directly or through the payment processing network to the merchant s access device e.g. POS equipment that indicates approval of the transaction. The code may serve as proof of authorization. As noted above in some embodiments a payment processing network may generate or forward the authorization response message to the merchant.

After the merchant A receives the authorization response message the contactless access device A at the merchant may then provide the authorization response message for the user. The response message may be displayed by the contactless access device A or may be printed out on a receipt.

At the end of the day a normal clearing and settlement process can be conducted by the payment processing network . A clearing process is a process of exchanging financial details between and acquirer and an issuer to facilitate posting to a user s payment account and reconciliation of the user s settlement position.

The payment processing network may also include a location server computer . The location server computer may comprise or be operatively coupled to a location database a transaction database and a mapping database . The location database may comprise the most up to date geo location and other descriptive information regarding contactless wireless access devices or other financial service entity and provider information. The transaction database may comprise a set of transaction data previously received by the payment processing network . The mapping database may comprise any information that is associated with the custom mapping provided for issuers or financial service providers and may in some instances comprise one or more custom mapping parameters or parameters for generating a custom map such that the issuer s consumers may electronically receive map data based on the mapping database . The location server computer may also comprise one or more software or hardware modules including a location data update module a location data generation module a database query module and a mapping generation module .

The location data update module may be programmed or configured to maintain and update the location database such in response to when new information about previous entries. The location data generation module may be programmed or configured to generate data to be added to the location database such as when location data is received about new entries or to generate location data from transaction data stored in transaction database .

The database query module may be configured or programmed to electronically send and receive commands from any databases in the payment processing network such as location database transaction database or mapping database and to provide that information to the appropriate software or hardware module in location server computer . The database query module may also be configured or programmed to electronically receive data requests sent by one of the entities in the system described in and return any relevant data that was requested. The database query module may also be utilized in conjunction with the report generation module to provide relevant reports based on the data included in the location database or mapping database .

The map data generation module may be programmed or configured to perform some or all of the functions associated with generating custom mappings including electronically receiving and identifying the parameters for the non issuer contactless access devices to include as well as the generation of the listing of the contactless access devices and or using mapping parameters stored in the mapping database . An exemplary mapping process is later described with reference to .

The pattern identification module may work in conjunction with the report generation module in generating reports based on the data included in the location database or mapping database . In addition the pattern identification module also may search the location database using any of the categories of information stored therein e.g. geo location information merchant type etc. and identify patterns trends coverage and or marketing and or promotional opportunities based on the data.

With reference to a more detailed illustration of an exemplary embodiment of a location database is shown. The location database may be configured to store some or all location data associated with various contactless access devices. Some possible categories of location data that may be stored in the database are described below. The location database may comprise more than one database and the databases may be in the same location or may be remotely located. Data stored in the location database may include location data and or data identifying a contactless access device. For example the location database may comprise a contactless device identifier location name location geodata e.g. longitude and latitude coordinates location type location contactless access device properties location image URL location icon URL location description and other location properties .

The contactless device identifier may be a unique identifier associated with a contactless device. The contactless device identifier may be assigned by a manufacturer of the contactless access device an acquirer associated with the contactless access device the payment processing network or any other party.

The location name may be the name or other identifier of a location containing the contactless access device. For example in some embodiments the location name may be a merchant name if the contactless access device is operated by a merchant. Alternately the location name may be a bank name if the contactless access device is operated by a bank.

The location geodata may include a latitude and longitude pair an address city state postal code such as a ZIP code country or any other information suitable to identify the location of the contactless access device. In some embodiments of the invention if the contactless access device is operated within a merchant or bank the geodata for the merchant or bank may be provided.

The location type may indicate a category or other classifier for a type of location associated with the contactless access device. For example in some embodiments the merchant type may include a Merchant Category Code MCC for a merchant associated with the contactless access device. In some embodiments Location type may also be used to identify whether the location corresponds to a bank branch ATM or merchant.

The location contactless access device properties may indicate properties of the contactless access device s at the location. For example location contactless access device properties may include the manufacturer of the contactless access device i.e. the make and or a model associated with the manufacturer. In some embodiments of the invention location contactless access device properties may be used to provide an indication of protocols technologies payment products or brands supported by the contactless access device. For example an indication of whether the access device supports Bluetooth NFC payWave or other technology may be included.

Location data may also comprise a location image URL and location icon URL . In some embodiments location image URL and location icon URL may be used to retrieve and display in an application or web page an image or icon associated the location corresponding to access device. Location image URL and location icon URL may refer to images or icons of any suitable format such as GIF JPEG SWF TIFF or any other image format known in the art.

Location description may be a text string describing a location associated with the contactless access device. Location description may include information about the location provided by a third party types of consumer devices accepted by at the location or any other description of the location.

Other location properties may include any properties associated with the location not previously mentioned. Examples of data that may be included in other location properties include an acquirer associated with the contactless access device. The acquirer may be represented using an acquirer identifier.

In some embodiments a date or time of last activity of the contactless access device and a phone number associated with the contactless access device may also be included in other location properties .

In some embodiments a status of the contactless access device may be included in other location properties . The status of the contactless access device may represent information regarding the operational status of the contactless access device or information regarding how the device should be displayed on generated maps. For example the status may indicate that the contactless access device should be displayed using a coming soon marker.

In some embodiments a suppression flag may also be included in other location properties . The suppression flag may indicate that the device should not be displayed on generated maps for example if the device is inactive or unready.

Contactless access devices may be added to the location database either through the use of lists or any other form of data supplied to a managing entity of the location database or directly by the merchants acquirers issuers etc. that operate or are associated with a contactless access device or other financial services locations. In some embodiments such as when the database is imported from a third party location data may be imported in XML format. An exemplary table of XML tags that may be used in an XML schema is below 

In other embodiments of the invention such as when the location database may be managed by a payment processing network transactional data may be analyzed to identify any contactless access devices and corresponding merchants that have recorded a contactless transaction but for which have not yet been identified in the location database. In this manner the location database may be kept up to date as access devices are connected or disconnected from the system.

As noted above the location database may provide contactless access device information to consumers such as by linking to a website or a mobile device application. In some embodiments of the invention an application programming interface API may be defined to enable access to the location database .

In one embodiment the communication device may generate a location data request message in JavaScript Object Notation JSON format. An example request message is shown below 

In the shown embodiment the request message is comprised of two Javascript object data structures a requestData object and a wsRequestHeaderV3 object. The address1 city state Latitude Longitude zipcode and country Code keys may be strings providing information regarding the current location of the consumer. The paymentProductType value may be a string providing information regarding a brand technology or protocol supported for the requested location data. For example paymentProductType may have a value of payWave to indicate a request for Visa payWave locations. The NumberOfLocations value indicates a number of locations requested. For example if NumberOfLocations has the value of 5 the location data for the closest five satisfactory contactless access devices may be returned. The DistanceParameter value indicates that the requested contactless access devices should reside within the specified radius from the current location.

The wsRequestHeaderV3 object generally comprises information relating to the location data request message itself. The requestTS value indicates a timestamp in Universal Coordinated Time UTC format. The applicationID value identifies the application used to generate the location data request message. In some embodiments of the invention the applicationID value may be specific to an issuer or issuer group service provider. In such embodiments the applicationID value may be used to determine which mapping parameters to use to process the location data request message. The userID value indicates a user or customer identifier. In some embodiments the userID value may also be used to identify the mapping parameters to use to process the location data request message.

Once the location data request message is generated it may be sent to the location server computer . Location server computer may process the location data request message to generate map data. In one embodiment of the invention the map data may be included in a JSON location data response message sent to the communication device . An example response message is shown below 

In the shown embodiment the location data response message is composed of three Javascript objects a responseData object a wsStatus object and a wsResponseHeaderV2 object.

The responseData object comprises an array of map data corresponding to one or more contactless access devices retrieved from location database . Typically the array will have a length corresponding to the numberOfLocations value transmitted in the location data request message. The values for merchantName and storeID may correspond with location name associated with the contactless access device in the location database . The categoryID key may correspond to the location type stored in the location database . The address1 city state zip country latitude and longitude values may correspond to location geodata stored in the location database . The paymentProductType value may correspond to the location contactless access device properties . The phoneNumber status and suppress keys may correspond to other location properties stored in the location database .

The wsStatus object indicates the status of the location data request. The wsStatus object may comprise a statusCode value and a statusDesc value. Typically the statusCode is an alphanumeric code indicating of the status of the request and the statusDesc message is a string description of the status.

The wsResponseHeaderV2 object provides information regarding the response message itself. The object comprises a responseTS indicating a UTC timestamp of the response a requestMessageID indicating an identifier of the corresponding location data request message a responseMessageID indicating an identifier of the response message and a numRowsReturned indicating the number of elements in the responseData array.

Typically the communication device may parse the location data response message to retrieve the map data.

In alternate embodiments the information corresponding to location data may be maintained separately e.g. the location data could be supplied to a web provider on a regularly scheduled basis which information may then be used to populate the website or a database coupled thereto . However in some instances the location database may be queried directly by consumers. This may enable consumers to identify contactless access devices and corresponding merchants banks and other institutions that accept payment devices having a particular contactless interface and may further enable users to search for and filter for the type of data returned by using some of the information associated with a contactless access device other than the geo location information such as the Merchant Category Codes assigned to the corresponding merchants.

In some embodiments the consumer may be able to search for contactless access devices by manually entering in a zip code or address e.g. entering data into a web browser or mobile device application or the data could be generated automatically by an integrated location detector e.g. a GPS program on a mobile device or through use of an IP address . The consumer s current location can then be compared against location data stored in the location database. In addition the consumer may enter criteria other than geo location information that may be searched against the location database entries e.g. the user may specify information associated with other categories of data stored in the location database . Moreover the consumer may receive information associated with the locations that may also be stored in the location database. Some examples of such information may include but are not limited to the location name location address and or geo location data location type location image URL icon URL location description location properties services provided telephone number store hours and whether there is handicap access on the premises.

In some embodiments the database could include additional information such as geo location information for locations in which certain financial services may be provided. This could include by way of example locations in which pre paid debit cards or gift cards may be obtained or reloaded locations where financial products related to travel e.g. electronic traveler s checks may be obtained or any other financial product or service is provided.

In some embodiments system and methods may be provided that include a location database that may enable issuers and financial service providers to use a generic locator capability to upload branch ATM or any other location data they desire into the location database. This may enable customers with mobile devices to find nearby locations where financial services are provided by a particular issuer. Some examples of the types of location data issuers or any other entity may upload to the location database may include but is not limited to ATM locations branch locations merchant locations prepaid payment device reload locations and prepaid payment device purchase locations.

With reference to a more detailed illustration of an exemplary embodiment of a transaction database is shown. The transaction database may be configured to comprise some or all transaction data received by a payment processing network . Transaction data may be electronically retrieved from authorization request messages authorization response messages clearing and settlement messages or any other suitable sources. Transaction data stored in the transaction database may include a transaction identifier transaction geo location access device identifier location type transaction amount issuer acquirer date time or other transaction properties . In some embodiments of the invention transaction database may be anonymized so that no sensitive data is stored.

Transaction identifier may be any suitable identifier for a transaction. In some embodiments transaction identifier may be unique in the transaction database . In some embodiments transaction identifier may be operative to retrieve the transaction from another non anonymized transaction database not shown .

Transaction geo location may be any information associated with the geo location of a transaction. Transaction geo location may for some transactions be sufficient to identify a physical location where the transaction occurred. In these cases transaction geo location may store the corresponding geo location. Alternately in some embodiments of the invention transaction geo location may not specify an exact physical location but rather an area. For example the transaction geo location may comprise a postal code e.g. ZIP code center geo location and radius or list of possible geo locations.

The access device identifier may be a unique identifier that may be used to identify an access device used to conduct the transaction. In some embodiments of the invention a contactless access device associated with an access device identifier may also have a corresponding contactless device identifier in location database . In such embodiments the access device identifier may be used to retrieve location data corresponding to the access device. Alternately the contactless device identifier may be used to retrieve transaction data for one or more transactions conducted using the access device.

Location type may indicate a category or other classifier for a type of location associated with the contactless access device. For example in some embodiments the merchant type may Merchant Category Code MCC for a merchant associated with the contactless access device. In some embodiments Location type may also be used to identify whether the location corresponds to a bank branch ATM or merchant.

Transaction amount may indicate an amount paid for the transaction. For example the transaction amount may indicate a currency and a value in the currency paid.

Issuer identifier may be a unique identifier to an issuer associated with an account associated with the contactless consumer device which was used to conduct the transaction. In some embodiments the issuer identifier may be a name of an issuer or an identification number such as a BIN bank identification number . In some embodiments of the invention an issuer associated with an issuer identifier may have a corresponding entry in mapping database comprising one or more mapping parameters. In such embodiments issuer identifier may be used to retrieve mapping parameters corresponding to the issuer. Alternately the issuer identifier may be used to retrieve transaction data for one or more transactions associated with the issuer.

The acquirer identifier may be a unique identifier associated with an acquirer associated with the merchant that operates the access device for a transaction. In some embodiments the issuer identifier may be a name of an acquirer or an identification number such as a BIN bank identification number . In some embodiments if an acquirer and an issuer are the same financial institution the acquirer identifier and the issuer identifier may be the same.

Date Time may comprise a timestamp or other indication of the date and time a transaction was conducted.

Other transaction properties may include any other properties associated with the transaction. For example in some embodiments other transaction properties may include a merchant identifier such as the merchant s name a consumer identifier such as the consumer s name payment information used to conduct the transaction or any other information associated with the transaction.

With reference to a more detailed illustration of an exemplary embodiment of a mapping database is shown. The mapping database may be configured to comprise some or all mapping parameters electronically received by payment processing network and associated with an issuer or other entity. In general mapping parameters may be used when generating map data. Typically mapping parameters may be retrieved from an issuer but may also be electronically received from any other suitable source. Mapping parameters stored in the mapping database may include an issuer identifier an issuer group service provider identifier one or more pre populated location data identifiers one or more information display defaults location type filters issuer filters merchant acquirer filters contactless access device filters or other mapping parameters .

Issuer identifier may be unique identifier assigned to each issuer. In some embodiments of the invention an issuer identifier may be assigned by the payment processing network when mapping parameters for an issuer are added to the database. Alternately in other embodiments issuer identifier may be assigned by a third party and be used for other purposes. For example in various embodiments the issuer identifier may be a bank identification number BIN or automated clearinghouse ACH routing number.

Issuer group service provider identifier may be an identifier that is unique to each issuer group service provider. An issuer group service provider may be an organization which manages location services for two or more issuers.

Pre populated location data identifiers may include one or more identifiers for pre populated location data. Pre populated location data may be any location data not provided by the issuer but by the payment processing network or third party. For example in some embodiments of the invention the payment processing network will gather and maintain contactless access device location data independently of any data electronically received from issuers. Such location data may be offered to issuers so that if an issuer wants to include the location data in maps generated for the consumers associated with the issuer the issuer may specify a parameter noting the identifier of the pre populated location data. For all identifiers selected by the issuer contactless access devices contained in the corresponding location data may be displayed to the user. For example the payment processing network may maintain location data corresponding to locations where payment cards associated with the payment processing network can be purchased or reloaded.

Information display defaults may include one or more default values to indicate information that can be displayed by default to consumers associated with the issuer. For example in some embodiments the issuer may define information display defaults to indicate whether a long form or short form description should be shown on a generated map whether a phone number should be displayed or any other parameter relating to the presentation of information contained in map data generated for the consumer.

Location type filters may include filters based on the location type of the location where the contactless access device is located. For example in one embodiment the issuer may specify that merchants with a given Merchant Category Code MCC should not be included in map data generated for consumers associated with the issuer. Issuer filters may include filters based on an issuer identifier associated with the contactless access device. Similarly merchant acquirer filters may include filters based on the acquirer identifier of a merchant associated with a contactless access device. Contactless access device filters may include filters on the make model or technology used by contactless access devices.

Other mapping parameters may include any other type of mapping parameter that may be used to modify map data generated for consumers associated with the issuer. For example in some embodiments other mapping parameters may include filters on multiple location data attributes or filters that may be composed using Boolean logic.

In some embodiments other mapping parameters may also include properties of an application or web site provided to consumers associated with the issuer. For example the name of the application or title of the website may be configurable. In addition other mapping parameters may also include branding associated with the issuer for use with the application or web site.

At step the location server computer electronically receives and examines transaction data. In some embodiments the transaction data may be stored in the transaction database . Alternately the transaction data may be electronically received from another source such as from an access device and or via a communications network . The transaction data may contain information regarding a transaction including but not limited to a consumer a merchant identifier an amount of the transaction a geo location where the transaction was conducted or any transaction data e.g. data that is described with respect to the data fields described in .

In some embodiments the transaction data may be electronically received by the server computer in the payment processing network in an authorization request message. The authorization request message may have been generated by an access device located at the merchant and may have been routed through an acquirer computer . The authorization request message may comprise a transaction amount an access device identifier a merchant category code a service code an expiration date geolocation data and other information. In such embodiments the transaction data may be electronically received in real time by the server computer during the transaction. In other embodiments the transaction data can be received after a transaction has taken place.

At decision step the location server computer determines if the access device is already in the location database . In some embodiments the location server computer may check if location data exists corresponding to an access device identifier associated with the transaction.

If so at step the location information in the location database may be updated with information in the transaction data. For example if the transaction data indicates that the location of the contactless access device has moved the location server computer may update the corresponding geodata in the location data in the location database accordingly. In other cases where the location data and transaction data differ the location data may be immediately updated or updated after a threshold of time. For example the information may be updated after 3 months of seeing a disparity between the location data in the location database and the transaction data that is continuously received from that access device during that period of time. Otherwise if the access device is not already in the location database the method proceeds to decision step .

At decision step the location server computer determines if the transaction was conducted using a contactless payment mechanism. In some embodiments of the invention this may be determined by a contactless indicator flag that is present in the transaction data. In other embodiments the process of determining if the transaction was conducted with a contactless payment device may be determined by another property of the transaction such as the make and or model of access device used to conduct the transaction.

At step if the transaction was not performed using a contactless access device the process terminates with no data added or updated in the location database. If the transaction used contactless payment or was performed using a contactless access device the method proceeds to step .

At step the payment processing network determines the location of the access device . In some embodiments and for some transaction data the geo location of the transaction may be included in the transaction data. For example a latitude longitude pair may be included in the transaction data which may be present in an authorization request message. Alternately an address for the access device may be included in the transaction data. In other embodiments the location of the transaction may be derived from other data present in the transaction data such as an IP address used by the contactless access device . In yet other embodiments the location may be triangulated based on the strength of cell phone reception from cell towers.

At step the location server computer in the payment processing network adds the transaction location data to the transaction database . The location data may comprise any suitable data from the transaction data. For example if the transaction data is derived from the transaction database illustrated in and added to the location database illustrated in at least the access device identifier transaction geo location location type and issuer identifier and acquirer identifier fields of the transaction data may be added to the data for a particular access device in the location database .

At step an issuer generates issuer location data associated with the issuer. The issuer location data may correspond to the locations of access devices that are associated with the issuer . The location data may be generated from any suitable source at the issuer. In some embodiments some issuers may maintain a database of contactless access devices associated with the issuer. For example issuers that offer contactless ATM withdrawal or deposit services may maintain a database of contactless ATMs. Location data corresponding to the contactless ATMs may be included in the issuer location data. In some embodiments the issuer may also maintain a database of merchants associated with the issuer. For example in the case of an issuer acquirer the database of merchants may contain merchants for which the issuer acquirer provides acquirer services. Location data corresponding to the database of merchants may also be included in the issuer location data.

In some embodiments of the invention the issuer location data may be included in a location data file. The location data file may be a file in tabular or any other suitable format for holding location data for one or more contactless access devices. In some embodiments the format of the location data file may be defined by the payment processing network so that multiple issuers may use the same location data file format to transmit location data to the payment processing network.

After generating the issuer location data the issuer transmits the issuer location data along with any contactless access device information e.g. a contactless access device ID to the payment processing network .

At step the payment processing network electronically receives the issuer location data. In some embodiments of the invention the issuer may electronically transmit the issuer location data and access device data directly to the location server computer .

At step the location server computer in the payment processing network adds the issuer location data to the location database . Typically the issuer location data may have one or more fields in common with the location data fields stored in the location database such as the location name location geodata and location type. The issuer location data may also have one or more fields not explicitly present in the location database. Such fields may be added to the Other Location Properties field of the location data. In some embodiments of the invention the contactless access device identifier may be provided in the issuer location database. In this case the same contactless access device identifier may be used in the location database. Alternately the location server computer may generate a unique contactless access device identifier for one or more access devices in the issuer location data.

In some embodiments of the invention the flow described in may be performed multiple times by an issuer acquirer or other party. For example an issuer may periodically add contactless access devices to the location database when new ATMs or bank branches are opened. In some embodiments issuers may also be able to submit updated issuer location data to update location data stored in the location database. The location server computer may accordingly update existing data in the location database rather than creating new location data.

At step the issuer defines issuer mapping parameters. The issuer mapping parameters may define parameters affecting map data in the generation of maps on a communications device for a consumer . Issuer mapping parameters may include for example pre populated location data identifiers information display flags and filters. The issuer may define mapping parameters based on perceived interests and or needs associated with consumers. For example an issuer may filter contactless access devices based on the contactless technology used by the issuer. Contactless access devices not using a compatible technology to the issuers may be removed or hidden from the map data. Alternately an issuer associated with a particular geographical area may filter contactless access devices outside of that area. The issuer may electronically transmit the mapping parameters to the payment processing network to the location server computer or directly add the mapping parameters to the mapping database .

At step the payment processing network electronically receives issuer mapping parameters from the issuer . Such parameters may be electronically transmitted from the issuer to the payment processing network .

At step the payment processing network adds issuer mapping parameters to the mapping database . Typically the issuer mapping parameters may have one or more parameter in common with the mapping parameters stored in the location database such as the pre populated location data identifiers filters or display flags. The issuer mapping parameters may also have one or more parameters not explicitly present in the mapping database. Such fields may be added to the Other Mapping Properties field of the mapping database. In some embodiments of the invention the issuer identifier may be provided in the issuer mapping parameters in order to uniquely identify the issuer. In this case the same issuer identifier may be used in the mapping database . Alternately the location server computer may generate a unique issuer identifier for one or more issuers in the mapping database .

The method described for may be performed additional times for each issuer to update the mapping database. For example when an issuer adds support for a new technology to contactless consumer devices the issuer may update the mapping parameters to include contactless access devices supporting the technology in generated map data.

In some embodiments of the invention the application used by the consumer may be branded by the issuer . For example in some embodiments a payment processing network or third party may implement an application for connecting to the location server computer and providing location services. The payment processing network or third party may make the application available to issuers so that each issuer may brand the application with its logo color scheme etc. Alternately in other embodiments the issuer may use a custom application. In some embodiments the issuer may tag the application with an issuer identifier or other information so that a payment processing network or location server computer may identify that the application is associated with an issuer . In other embodiments the consumer using the application may indicate an issuer .

At step of the method the consumer selects a locator service in an application running on a communications device . One exemplary diagram of step is illustrated in wherein an unauthenticated user selects a View Locations button on a login screen. Alternate embodiments are shown in and wherein a locator menu item may be selected after logging in to the mobile application.

At step of the method the consumer enables GPS data from a GPS receiver associated with the communications device and determines a current consumer location. In some embodiments of the invention the application may determine if the GPS receiver is disabled and if so prompt the consumer to enable the GPS receiver. shows an exemplary screen that may be shown to prompt the consumer. The device then determines the current consumer location. A loading screen such as is shown in may be displayed until a current location is determined by the GPS receiver. Alternately in some embodiments a current location may be determined using other methods such as cellular tower triangulation proximity of wireless networks or other satellite navigation methodologies.

In some embodiments of the invention the consumer may manually enter the current consumer location. The location entered may be of any suitable form such as a latitude longitude pair an address a postal code or a city. If the specified location could not be found or if multiple results were found for the specified location the application may prompt the consumer with a list of similar matches. shows an exemplary screen that may be shown to consumers in one embodiment of the invention.

At step the communications device electronically transmits the current consumer location to the location server computer . In some embodiments of the invention the current consumer location may be included in the JSON location data request message format described earlier. In some embodiments of the invention the location server computer may have a uniform resource locator URL IP address or other network address programmed into the application. The application may transmit the current consumer location using any suitable protocol such as the TCP IP protocol UDP protocol or other protocol known in the art over a wireless or wired connection medium. In some embodiments the application may include an indication of an issuer identifier or issuer group service provider identifier with the location data. This identifier may be determined by the branding of the application. Alternately the application may include information associated with the consumer such as a consumer identifier with the current consumer location.

At step the application on the communications device electronically receives the map data from the location server computer . One embodiment of map data included in a JSON location data response message is described earlier. In other embodiments of the invention map data may comprise any data operable by the application to display a map of locations of contactless access devices nearby to the current consumer location. Map data may also include information regarding the nearby contactless access devices. In some embodiments map data may include any number of fields in the location database associated with a contactless access device. Further data included in the map data may include an address phone number or customer ratings of a merchant or bank associated with the contactless access device. This data may be used to display information on the device. Map data may also include data usable to filter contactless access devices so that one or more of the nearby contactless access devices may be hidden from the map based on a filter.

At step the application on the communications device displays a map centered at the current consumer location. illustrates an exemplary map that may be displayed. The map may comprise a marker illustrating the current consumer location and multiple markers and illustrating the locations of contactless access devices In some embodiments of the invention merchants banks ATMs or other institutions with multiple contactless access devices may be represented by a single marker. In some embodiments of the invention as illustrated in icon special icons may be used to depict multiple location types at a single physical location. In some embodiments hover over text may indicate that multiple contactless access devices are present at the shown location.

In some embodiments and under some conditions an error may be indicated. shows one possible error screen in embodiments of the invention. Error conditions may include no contactless access devices found no wireless signal current location cannot be determined map data unavailable access device information unavailable and location server unavailable. In some embodiments the user may be prompted to accept the error or restart the application.

At step the consumer may define filters on the contactless access devices present in the map data. Filters may include those shown in such as locations associated with access devices which accept prepaid devices loadable prepaid devices contactless devices and debit devices for ATMs and the like. In some embodiments when the issuer is part of an issuer group service provider GSP filters may also include ATMs bank branches or other categories associated with the GSP. In an exemplary embodiment shown in filters may include issuer ATMs corresponding to various issuers A E . When filters are defined the map displayed on the communications device in step may be updated to hide markers not meeting the criteria discussed.

At step the application on the communications device displays additional information regarding a marker selected by the consumer . If the marker corresponds to a single contactless access device operated by a merchant the merchant information that may be displayed may include the merchant s location on a small map the merchant address phone number merchant ratings hours or other information. In some embodiments the area used to display the address or other information may be tapped by the consumer to open another application. is an exemplary embodiment illustrating the display of merchant information. Similar information may be displayed if the contactless access device is operated by a bank ATM or other institution.

In some cases multiple contactless access devices corresponding to different merchants may share the same geo location. In some embodiments of the invention information relating to all merchants may be displayed on a single page. For example the addresses and phone numbers of all merchants may be displayed. An exemplary embodiment showing a display of multiple pieces of information for multiple merchants may be found in .

Alternately if multiple contactless access devices corresponding to different merchants share the same geo location the application may display a menu querying which of the merchants the consumer would like to see. When a merchant is selected merchant information for the selected merchant may be displayed as described above and illustrated in . An exemplary embodiment showing a merchant selection menu may be found in .

At step the application performs an action based on a contactless access device based on input provided by the consumer. For example the application may initiate a call text or email to a merchant associated with the contactless access device. Alternately the application may generate directions to the geo location of the contactless access device from the current consumer location. An exemplary screen prompting the consumer for an action is shown in .

At step the location server computer electronically receives a consumer current location message from an application running on a communications device . The consumer current location may be expressed in any suitable form such as a latitude longitude pair address zip code or city. In some embodiments of the invention an issuer identifier for an issuer associated with the consumer may be included with the consumer current location message.

At step the location server retrieves the mapping parameters associated with the issuer associated with the consumer . In some embodiments as described above an issuer identifier may be included in the consumer current location message. Alternately in various embodiments an issuer identifier may be derived from consumer properties such as the application used to electronically transmit the consumer current location message or by cross referencing consumer information with databases stored by the payment processing network . The mapping parameters associated with the issuer may be queried from the mapping database by using the issuer identifier.

At step the location server computer determines nearby contactless access devices. The determination of whether a contactless access device is nearby may be made using one or more mapping parameters. For example in some embodiments an issuer may define a contactless access device as nearby if it lies within a certain distance of the current consumer location e.g. within a 10 mile radius . In other embodiments the issuer may define the access device as nearby if it is one of the closest contactless access devices e.g. one of the 10 closest to the current consumer location . Once the criteria for nearby contactless access devices is determined the location server computer may query the location database for the nearby contactless access devices.

At step the location server computer applies any issuer filters defined in the mapping parameters. Issuer filters may be any filters on the location data which are intended to be applied for all consumers associated with the issuer before map data is generated from the location data. In various embodiments of the invention examples of issuer filters defined in the mapping database may include location type filters merchant acquirer filters contactless access device filters or filters on any other location data stored for contactless access devices. Typically a filter may specify a condition such as a filter on the contactless technology used . If the condition is met by the contactless access device if the technology used by the device is compatible then the contactless access device may be included in generated map data. Otherwise it may not be included in the generated map data.

At step the location server computer generates map data corresponding to nearby contactless access devices which satisfy any issuer filters defined in the mapping parameters. Map data may also comprise properties of the contactless access devices such as the make and model of the devices and technologies supported by the devices. Map data may also comprise information regarding the a merchant bank ATM or other institution associated with contactless access devices such as addresses phone numbers customer ratings hours of operation and issuers and acquirers associated with the institutions. Typically map data may be operable by an application to display a map view information relating to contactless access devices filter the contactless access devices and perform actions based on the contactless access devices.

At step the location server computer electronically transmits the map data to the application on the communications device .

An exemplary illustration of the generated map data is shown in . In particular the grid represents the mapped geo locations in a location database Merchant grid location Merchant grid location Issuer Branch grid location Issuer ATM grid location Issuer Branch grid location and Issuer ATM grid location each comprising one or more contactless access devices.

The grid represents location data stored in a location database associated with merchants. In this case location data associated with merchants may include information corresponding to Merchant and Merchant but may not include any bank branches or bank ATMs.

Grid may represent location data associated with Issuer the location data corresponding to Issuer Branch and the location data corresponding to Issuer ATM. Merchants and and Issuer locations are not included

In this example Merchant may provide an access device having a contactless interface that is compatible with the portable consumers devices provided by Issuer or Merchant may provide other financial services related to Issuer such as reloading pre paid debit cards etc. and therefore Issuer would like to provide this information to its customers in a customized map. Merchant may not provide a similar functionality and thereby Issuer may not want to provide Merchant s location information to its consumers.

Therefore with reference to grid Issuer may define a filter in the mapping parameters to only display contactless access devices associated with Issuer or merchants compatible with Issuer s technology. The resulting mapping is shown in grid . Note that although the location database has location data for Merchant because Issuer may have indicated that it did not want to include non compatible merchants in the custom mapping. The mapping represented by grid may then be provided by Issuer to its customers e.g. via a branded mobile application or web based platform .

In this example Merchant may provide an access device having a contactless interface that is compatible with the portable consumers devices provided by Issuer or Merchant may provide other financial services related to Issuer such as reloading pre paid debit cards etc. and therefore Issuer would like to provide this information to its customers in a customized map. Merchant may not provide a similar functionality and thereby Issuer may not want to provide Merchant s location information to its consumers.

Therefore with reference to grid Issuer may define a filter in the mapping parameters to only display contactless access devices associated with Issuer or merchants compatible with Issuer s technology. The resulting mapping is shown in grid . Note that although the location database has location data for Merchant because Issuer indicated that it did not want to include non compatible merchant access devices in the custom mapping it was excluded. The mapping represented by grid may then be provided by Issuer to its customers e.g. via a branded mobile application or web based platform .

Referring now to the various participants and elements in can operate one or more computer apparatuses e.g. a server computer to facilitate the functions described herein. Any of the elements in can use any suitable number of subsystems to facilitate the functions described herein. Examples of such subsystems or components are shown in . The subsystems shown in are interconnected via a system bus . Additional subsystems such as a printer keyboard fixed disk or other memory comprising computer readable media monitor which is coupled to display adapter and others are shown. Peripherals and input output I O devices which coupled to I O controller can be connected to the computer system by any number of means known in the art such as serial port . For example serial port or external interface can be used to connect the computer apparatus to a wide area network such as the Internet a mouse input device or a scanner. The interconnection via system bus allows the central processor to communicate with each subsystem and to control the execution of instructions from system memory or the fixed disk as well as the exchange of information between subsystems. The system memory and or the fixed disk can embody a computer readable medium.

Referring now to a block diagram of access device which can be a scanner is illustrated according to an embodiment of the invention. Access device can be utilized interchangeably with access device or terminal point of sale POS device or terminal and or reader and terminal within the present disclosure. The access device comprises a processor operatively coupled to a computer readable medium e.g. one or more memory chips etc. input elements such as buttons or the like one or more readers e.g. wireless short range communication interface e.g. NFC a barcode reader optical scanner etc. an output device e.g. a display a speaker etc. and an interface . A housing can contain one or more of these components. The computer readable medium can comprise instructions or code executable by a processor. The interface can be a wired or wireless interface capable of communication with the merchant register. In another embodiment interface can be a network interface for direct communication with an acquirer payment processing network merchant computer apparatus or any other device.

As shown in the payment device may include both a magnetic stripe and a contactless element . In other embodiments both the magnetic stripe and the contactless element may be in the payment device . In other embodiments either the magnetic stripe or the contactless element may be present in the payment device .

As described the inventive service may involve implementing one or more functions processes operations or method steps. In some embodiments the functions processes operations or method steps may be implemented as a result of the execution of a set of instructions or software code by a suitably programmed computing device microprocessor data processor or the like. The set of instructions or software code may be stored in a memory or other form of data storage element which is accessed by the computing device microprocessor etc. In other embodiments the functions processes operations or method steps may be implemented by firmware or a dedicated processor integrated circuit etc.

It should be understood that the present invention as described above can be implemented in the form of control logic using computer software in a modular or integrated manner. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will know and appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the present invention using hardware and a combination of hardware and software.

Any of the software components or functions described in this application may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor using any suitable computer language such as for example Java C or Perl using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands on a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a CD ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a single computational apparatus and may be present on or within different computational apparatuses within a system or network.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described in detail and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not intended to be restrictive of the broad invention and that this invention is not to be limited to the specific arrangements and constructions shown and described since various other modifications may occur to those with ordinary skill in the art.

As used herein the use of a an or the is intended to mean at least one unless specifically indicated to the contrary.

