---

title: ROR modulators and their uses
abstract: The invention relates to ROR modulators; compositions comprising an effective amount of a ROR modulator; and methods for treating or preventing diseases associated with ROR.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09447069&OS=09447069&RS=09447069
owner: INNOV17 LLC
number: 09447069
owner_city: Brooklyn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130430
---
This application is a National Stage Application of PCT US2013 038863 filed Apr. 30 2013 which claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application Nos. 61 640 401 filed Apr. 30 2012 61 736 895 filed Dec. 13 2012 and 61 779 856 filed Mar. 13 2013. The entire disclosures of these applications are relied on for all purposes and are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The invention relates to Retinoic Acid Receptor Related Orphan Receptor ROR regulated diseases and disorders. More particularly the invention relates to ROR modulators compositions comprising an effective amount of a ROR modulator and methods for treating or preventing ROR regulated diseases and disorders.

There are high unmet medical needs in the few established therapies for several autoimmune inflammatory and metabolic diseases. Despite the diverse clinical manifestations of these diseases Retinoic Acid Receptor Related Orphan Receptors RORs regulate and contribute to the pathogenesis of these diseases through modulation of immune responses and lipid glucose homeostasis. Only recently has the critical regulatory role of RORs been well characterized and target validated in several animal models of some of these diseases. RORs are transcription factors which belong to the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily Jetten 2009 7 e003 Jetten et al. 2013 . 4 1 Jetten Joo 2006 16 313 355 . The ROR subfamily consists of three major isoforms ROR NR1F1 ROR NR1F2 and ROR NR1F3 encoded by the RORA RORB and RORC genes respectively. RORs are multidomain proteins that contain four principal domains typical of nuclear receptors a highly variable N terminal A B domain a highly conserved DNA binding domain DBD a ligand binding domain LBD that contains the ligand dependent activation function 2 AF 2 and a hinge domain between the DBD and LBD. Each ROR gene through alternative splicing and promoter usage generates several ROR isoforms that differ only in their amino terminus. In humans there are four ROR isoforms ROR 1 4 one ROR 1 isoform and two ROR isoforms ROR 1 and ROR 2 ROR t that are expressed in a highly tissue specific manner. ROR and ROR play an important role in the regulation of lipid glucose homeostasis cellular metabolism immune function and circadian rhythms and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune inflammatory and metabolic diseases Burris et al. 2012 19 51 59 Burris et al. 2013 65 710 778 Huh Littman 2012 42 2232 2237 Jetten 2009 7 e003 Jetten et al. 2013 . 4 1 . Synthetic ligands have been described that interact with the ROR and ROR LBD functioning as a switch that induces a ROR LBD conformational change. Such change promotes the recruitment and displacement of regulatory coactivator and corepressor proteins and upon ROR DBD binding to the ROR responsive element of the target genes lead to the induction or inhibition of ROR regulated gene transcriptional activity. Therefore small molecule drugs that bind to the nuclear receptor LBDs such as ROR could elicit a variety of pharmacological responses including activation agonists inactivation antagonists or non agonists and for receptors that are constitutively active ligands can downregulate the constitutive response inverse agonists .

ROR t is the master regulator of human T Helper 17 T17 cell differentiation function and cytokine production Ivanov et al. 2006 126 1121 1133 . The critical role of T17 cells in the pathogenesis of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases has been established and is conferred by the production of its signature proinflammatory cytokines IL 17A IL 17F IL 17AF IL 21 IL 22 Ghoreschi et al. 2010 467 967 971 Lee et al. 2012 13 991 999 Miossec et al. 2009 361 888 898 Miossec Kolls 2012 11 763 776 Zepp et al. 2011 32 232 239 . Although several transcription factors regulate T17 T and innate lymphoid cells as important sources of T17 cytokines these cells are distinguished by its specific regulation of ROR t for cytokine transcriptional output and effector functions and to a lesser extent by ROR in humans Cua Tato 2010 10 479 489 Huh Littman 2012 42 2232 2237 Ivanov et al. 2006 126 1121 1133 Spits Di Santo 2011 12 21 27 Sutton et al. 2012 42 2221 2231 . Also in several autoimmune disease models there is a relative imbalance of increased T17 cells over low numbers of immunosuppressive CD4CD25Foxp3 regulatory T cells T Edwards et al. 2011 258 1518 1527 Littman Rudensky 2010 140 845 858 . Targeting ROR t could have a broader anti inflammatory effect on the combined inhibition of all T17 cytokine production and inflammatory cellular function and in the induction and expansion of suppressive Tcells important in autoimmune and inflammatory disease resolution and may also have therapeutic potential in metabolic diseases such as diet induced insulin resistance known to be regulated by ROR . Since both ROR 1 and ROR t ROR 1 protein isoforms contain identical LBDs small molecule ROR modulators that inhibit ROR t activity will also inhibit ROR . ROR similarly plays an important regulatory role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune and inflammatory disorders and also in metabolic diseases. ROR critically regulates lipid and glucose homeostasis and cellular metabolism that contribute to the development of metabolic diseases. The therapeutic benefits of inhibiting ROR for metabolic diseases is associated with diminished inflammation and downregulated expression of ROR target genes as seen in ROR deficient mice. As ligand dependent transcription factors it is desirable to prepare compounds that modulate ROR and or ROR activity which can be used in the treatment of ROR and or ROR regulated autoimmune inflammatory and metabolic diseases.

The invention is based in part on the discovery of ROR modulators which interact with ROR and or ROR and thereby inhibit or induce ROR and or ROR activity and ROR and or ROR regulated target gene and protein expression. The invention is also based on compositions comprising an effective amount of a ROR modulator and methods for treating or preventing disorders regulated by ROR and or ROR comprising the administration of an effective amount of a ROR modulator.

The invention is based in part on the discovery of ROR modulators which interact with ROR and or ROR and thereby inhibit or induce ROR and or ROR activity and ROR and or ROR regulated target gene and protein expression. The invention is also based on compositions comprising an effective amount of a ROR modulator and methods for treating or preventing disorders regulated by ROR and or ROR comprising the administration of an effective amount of a ROR modulator.

The details of the invention are set forth in the accompanying description below. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention illustrative methods and materials are now described. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and from the claims. In the specification and the appended claims the singular forms also include the plural unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. All patents and publications cited in this specification are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

 ROR modulator refers to a chemical compound that modulates either directly or indirectly the activity of ROR . ROR modulators include antagonists non agonists inverse agonists and agonists of ROR .

 ROR modulator refers to a chemical compound that modulates either directly or indirectly the activity of ROR . ROR modulators include antagonists non agonists inverse agonists and agonists of ROR .

The term ROR modulator includes any and all possible isomers stereoisomers enantiomers diastereomers tautomers pharmaceutically acceptable salts hydrates solvates and prodrugs of the ROR modulators described herein.

The articles a and an are used in this disclosure to refer to one or more than one i.e. to at least one of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example an element means one element or more than one element.

Unless otherwise specifically defined the term aryl refers to cyclic aromatic hydrocarbon groups that have 1 to 2 aromatic rings including monocyclic or bicyclic groups such as phenyl biphenyl or naphthyl. Where containing two aromatic rings bicyclic etc. the aromatic rings of the aryl group may be joined at a single point e.g. biphenyl or fused e.g. naphthyl . The aryl group may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents e.g. 1 to 5 substituents at any point of attachment. The substituents can themselves be optionally substituted.

 C Calkyl refers to a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing 1 3 carbon atoms. Examples of a C Calkyl group include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl and isopropyl.

 C Calkyl refers to a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing 1 4 carbon atoms. Examples of a C Calkyl group include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl butyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl.

 C Calkyl refers to a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing 1 5 carbon atoms. Examples of a C Calkyl group include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl isopentyl and neopentyl.

 C Calkyl refers to a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing 1 6 carbon atoms. Examples of a C Calkyl group include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl isopentyl and neopentyl.

The terms monocyclic or bicyclic aryl or an monocyclic or bicyclic heteroaryl as used herein include but are not limited to indolyl isoindolyl isoindolinyl indazolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl benzothiazolyl benzothiazolonyl benzoxazolyl benzoxazolonyl benzisoxazolyl benzisothiazolyl benzimidazolyl benzimidazolonyl benzotriazolyl imidazopyridinyl dihydropurinonyl pyrrolopyrimidinyl purinyl pyrazolopyridinyl pyrazolopyrimidinyl phthalimidyl phthalimidinyl pyrazinylpyridinyl pyridinopyrimidinyl pyrimidinopyrimidinyl cinnolinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl quinolonyl isoquinolonyl phthalazinyl benzodioxyl indolinyl dihydroquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl dihydroisoquinolyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl benzoazepinyl benzodiazepinyl benzoxapinyl benzoxazepinyl phenyl naphthyl pyrrolyl furyl thienyl oxazolyl thiazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl and triazinyl.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a cyclic hydrocarbon containing 3 6 carbon atoms. Examples of a cycloalkyl group include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. It is understood that any of the substitutable hydrogens on a cycloalkyl can be substituted with halogen C Calkyl hydroxyl alkoxy and cyano groups.

The term heterocycle as used herein refers to a cyclic hydrocarbon containing 3 6 atoms wherein at least one of the atoms is an O N or S wherein a monocyclic heterocycle may contain up to two double bonds. Examples of heterocycles include but are not limited to aziridine oxirane thiirane azetidine oxetane thietane pyrrolidine tetrahydrofuran tetrahydrothiophene piperidine tetrahydropyran thiane imidazolidine oxazolidine thiazolidine dioxolane dithiolane piperazine oxazine dithiane and dioxane.

A subject is a mammal e.g. a human mouse rat guinea pig dog cat horse cow pig or non human primate such as a monkey chimpanzee baboon or rhesus monkey and the terms subject and patient are used interchangeably herein.

The invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising an effective amount of a ROR modulator and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The invention includes a ROR modulator provided as a pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug hydrate salt such as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt enantiomers stereoisomers or mixtures thereof

Representative pharmaceutically acceptable salts include e.g. water soluble and water insoluble salts such as the acetate amsonate 4 4 diaminostilbene 2 2 disulfonate benzenesulfonate benzonate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide butyrate calcium calcium edetate camsylate carbonate chloride citrate clavulariate dihydrochloride edetate edisylate estolate esylate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexafluorophosphate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynaphthoate iodide isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate magnesium malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylbromide methylnitrate methylsulfate mucate napsylate nitrate N methylglucamine ammonium salt 3 hydroxy 2 naphthoate oleate oxalate palmitate pamoate 1 1 methene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate einbonate pantothenate phosphate diphosphate picrate polygalacturonate propionate p toluenesulfonate salicylate stearate subacetate succinate sulfate sulfosalicylate suramate tannate tartrate teoclate tosylate triethiodide and valerate salts.

An effective amount when used in connection with a ROR modulator is an amount effective for treating or preventing a ROR regulated disease or disorder.

The term carrier as used in this disclosure encompasses carriers excipients and diluents and means a material composition or vehicle such as a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient solvent or encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting a pharmaceutical agent from one organ or portion of the body to another organ or portion of the body.

The term treating with regard to a subject refers to improving at least one symptom of the subject s disorder. Treating can be curing improving or at least partially ameliorating the disorder.

The term disorder is used in this disclosure to mean and is used interchangeably with the terms disease condition or illness unless otherwise indicated.

The term administer administering or administration as used in this disclosure refers to either directly administering a compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound or a composition to a subject or administering a prodrug derivative or analog of the compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound or composition to the subject which can form an equivalent amount of active compound within the subject s body.

The term prodrug as used in this disclosure means a compound which is convertible in vivo by metabolic means e.g. by hydrolysis to a ROR modulator.

The term optionally substituted as used in this disclosure means a suitable substituent can replace a hydrogen bound to a carbon nitrogen or oxygen. When a substituent is oxo i.e. O then 2 hydrogens on the atom are replaced by a single O. Suitable substituents are selected from the following which include but are not limited to hydroxyl halogen perfluorinated C Calkyl amine C Calkyl C Calkene C Calkyne C Calkyl cycloalkyl aryl alkyl aryl C O H C O OH C O alkyl C O O alkyl C O NH alkyl benzyl C O NH C O N alkyl NHC O H NHC O alkyl SO alkyl SONH SONH alkyl SON alkyl S CN and SCN. It will be understood by those skilled in the art with respect to any group containing one or more substituents that such groups are not intended to introduce any substitution or substitution patterns that are sterically impractical synthetically non feasible and or inherently unstable. Furthermore combinations of substituents and or variables within any of the Formulae represented herein are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds or useful synthetic intermediates wherein stable implies a reasonable pharmologically relevant half life at physiological conditions.

The following abbreviations are used herein and have the indicated definitions ACTB is actin AF 2 is activation function 2 AIBN is azobisisobutyronitrile Boc and BOC are tert butoxycarbonyl BocO is di tert butyl dicarbonate BSA is bovine serum albumin CD is cluster of differentiation CDI is 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole DBD is DNA binding domain DCC is N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DIEA and DIPEA is N N diisopropylethylamine DMAP is 4 dimethylaminopyridine DMEM is Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMF is N N dimethylformamide DMSO is dimethyl sulfoxide DOSS is sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate ECis half maximal effective concentration EDC and EDCI are 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride ELISA is enzyme linked immunosorbent assay EtOAc is ethyl acetate FBS is fetal bovine serum FOXP3 is forkhead box P3 G CSF is granulocyte colony stimulating factor h is hour HATU is 2 7 aza 1H benzotriazole 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HIV is human immunodeficiency virus HOBt is 1 Hydroxybenzotriazole HPMC is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose HPRT1 is hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase 1 ICis half maximal inhibitory concentration IFN is interferon gamma IL is interleukin IL 23R is interleukin 23 receptor LAH is lithium aluminum hydride LBD is ligand binding domain MIQE is minimum information for publication of quantitative real time PCR experiments MTBE is methyl tert butyl ether NBS is N bromosuccinnide NMP is N methyl 2 pyrrolidone oxone is potassium peroxymonosulfate PBMCs is peripheral blood mononuclear cells PCR is polymerase chain reaction Pd C is palladium on carbon PGK1 is phosphoglycerate kinase PPIA is peptidylprolyl isomerase A REST is Relative Expression Software Tool ROR is retinoic acid receptor related orphan receptor alpha ROR is retinoic acid receptor related orphan receptor gamma TBAB is tetrabutylammonium bromide TBP is terminal binding protein TFA is trifluoroacetic acid TFRC is transferrin receptor TGF 1 is transforming growth factor beta 1 T17 is T helper 17 cell TGPS is tocopherol propylene glycol succinate THF is tetrohydrofuran TLC is thin layer chromatography TR FRET is time resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer and M is micromolar.

In some embodiments Y is selected from thienyl oxazolyl thiazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl and triazinyl. In some embodiments Y can be optionally substituted.

In another aspect methods of inhibiting preventing or treating a disease or symptoms of a disease regulated by ROR and or ROR is provided which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a ROR modulator. In some embodiments the disease regulated by ROR and or ROR is selected from Autoimmune Inflammatory and Metabolic Diseases including but not limited to angina pectoris myocardial infarction atherosclerosis cystic fibrosis gastritis autoimmune myositis giant cell arteritis Wegener s granulomatosis asthma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease rheumatoid arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis allergen induced lung inflammation allergy psoriasis psoriatic arthritis colitis inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis Sjogren s syndrome dry eye optic neuritis neuromyelitis optica myasthenia gravis Guillain Barre syndrome Graves disease multiple sclerosis autoimmune uveitis ankylosing spondylitis organ transplant rejection polymyalgia rheumatic systemic lupus erythematosus cutaneous lupus lupus nephritis glomerulonephritis diabetes mellitus type 1 pulmonary inflammation macular degeneration obesity non alcoholic fatty liver disease steatohepatitis insulin resistance diabetes mellitus type 2 glucose intolerance and metabolic syndrome and Other Diseases including but not limited to multiple myeloma bone disease associated with multiple myeloma gastric cancer and colon cancer.

Also described are methods of modulating ROR and or ROR activity as an agonist inverse agonist or antagonist non agonist in a subject which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a ROR modulator.

Also described are methods of inducing or inhibiting ROR and or ROR regulated target gene expression and protein production in a subject which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a ROR modulator.

Also described are methods of regulating corepressor and or coactivator protein interaction with ROR and or ROR LBD in a subject which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a ROR modulator.

Also described are methods of reducing the amount of ROR and or ROR regulated production of T17 cytokines IL 17A IL 17F IL 17AF IL 21 and or IL 22 in a subject which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a ROR modulator.

Also described are methods of inducing or inhibiting either directly or indirectly ROR and or ROR regulated cell proliferation or activation in a subject which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a ROR modulator.

The ROR modulators can each be administered in amounts that are sufficient to treat or prevent but are not limited to Autoimmune Inflammatory and Metabolic Diseases or prevent the development thereof in subjects.

The invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions useful for treating or preventing a ROR regulated disease or for inhibiting a ROR regulated disease or more than one of these activities. The compositions can be suitable for internal use and comprise an effective amount of a ROR modulator and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The ROR modulators are especially useful in that they demonstrate very low systemic toxicity or no systemic toxicity.

Administration of the ROR modulators can be accomplished via any mode of administration for therapeutic agents. These modes include systemic or local administration such as oral nasal parenteral intravenous intramuscular intrathecal intra vitreal transdermal subcutaneous vaginal buccal rectal topical administration modes or as a drug eluting stent.

Depending on the intended mode of administration the compositions can be in solid semi solid or liquid dosage form such as for example injectables tablets suppositories pills time release capsules elixirs tinctures emulsions syrups powders liquids suspensions or the like sometimes in unit dosages and consistent with conventional pharmaceutical practices. Likewise they can also be administered in intravenous both bolus and infusion intraperitoneal intrathecal intra vitreal injection subcutaneous or intramuscular form all using forms well known to those skilled in the pharmaceutical arts.

Illustrative pharmaceutical compositions are tablets and gelatin capsules comprising a ROR modulator and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as a a diluent e.g. purified water triglyceride oils such as hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated vegetable oil or mixtures thereof corn oil olive oil sunflower oil safflower oil fish oils such as EPA or DHA or their esters or triglycerides or mixtures thereof omega 3 fatty acids or derivatives thereof lactose dextrose sucrose mannitol sorbitol cellulose sodium saccharin glucose and or glycine b a lubricant e.g. silica talcum stearic acid its magnesium or calcium salt sodium oleate sodium stearate magnesium stearate sodium benzoate sodium acetate sodium chloride and or polyethylene glycol for tablets also c a binder e.g. magnesium aluminum silicate starch paste gelatin tragacanth methylcellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose magnesium carbonate natural sugars such as glucose or beta lactose corn sweeteners natural and synthetic gums such as tragacanth or sodium alginate waxes and or polyvinylpyrrolidone if desired d a disintegrant e.g. starches agar methyl cellulose bentonite xanthan gum alginic acid or its sodium salt or effervescent mixtures e absorbent colorant flavorant and sweetener f an emulsifier or dispersing agent such as Tween 80 Labrasol HPMC DOSS caproyl 909 labrafac labrafil peceol transcutol capmul MCM capmul PG 12 captex 355 gelucire vitamin E TGPS or other acceptable emulsifier and or g an agent that enhances absorption of the compound such as cyclodextrin hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin PEG400 PEG200.

Liquid particularly injectable compositions can for example be prepared by dissolution dispersion etc. For example the ROR modulator is dissolved in or mixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable solvent such as for example water saline aqueous dextrose glycerol ethanol and the like to thereby form an injectable isotonic solution or suspension. Proteins such as albumin chylomicron particles or serum proteins can be used to solubilize the ROR modulators.

The ROR modulators can be also formulated as a suppository that can be prepared from fatty emulsions or suspensions using polyalkylene glycols such as propylene glycol as the carrier.

In further embodiments the pharmaceutical formulations described herein include but are not limited to aqueous liquid dispersions self emulsifying dispersions solid solutions liposomal dispersions aerosols solid dosage forms powders immediate release formulations controlled release formulations fast melt formulations delayed release formulations extended release formulations pulsatile release formulations multiparticulate formulations and mixed immediate and controlled release formulations

The ROR modulators can also be administered in the form of liposome delivery systems such as small unilamellar vesicles large unilamellar vesicles and multilamellar vesicles. Liposomes can be formed from a variety of phospholipids containing cholesterol stearylamine or phosphatidylcholines. In some embodiments a film of lipid components is hydrated with an aqueous solution of drug to a form lipid layer encapsulating the drug as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 262 564 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

ROR modulators can also be delivered by the use of monoclonal antibodies as individual carriers to which the ROR modulators are coupled. The ROR modulators can also be coupled with soluble polymers as targetable drug carriers. Such polymers can include polyvinylpyrrolidone pyran copolymer polyhydroxypropylmethacrylamide phenol polyhydroxyethylaspanamidephenol or polyethyleneoxidepolylysine substituted with palmitoyl residues. Furthermore the ROR modulators can be coupled to a class of biodegradable polymers useful in achieving controlled release of a drug for example polylactic acid polyepsilon caprolactone polyhydroxy butyric acid polyorthoesters polyacetals polydihydropyrans polycyanoacrylates and cross linked or amphipathic block copolymers of hydrogels. In one embodiment ROR modulators are not covalently bound to a polymer e.g. a polycarboxylic acid polymer or a polyacrylate.

Parenteral injectable administration is generally used for subcutaneous intramuscular or intravenous injections and infusions. Injectables can be prepared in conventional forms either as liquid solutions or suspensions or solid forms suitable for dissolving in liquid prior to injection.

Compositions can be prepared according to conventional mixing granulating or coating methods respectively and the present pharmaceutical compositions can contain from about 0.1 to about 80 from about 5 to about 60 or from about 1 to about 20 of the ROR modulator by weight or volume.

The dosage regimen utilizing the ROR modulator is selected in accordance with a variety of factors including type species age weight sex race diet and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition to be treated the route of administration the renal or hepatic function of the patient and the particular ROR modulator employed. A physician or veterinarian of ordinary skill in the art can readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the drug required to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition.

Effective dosage amounts of the present invention when used for the indicated effects range from about 0.1 mg to about 5000 mg of the active ingredient per unit dose which could be administered. In one embodiment the compositions are in the form of a tablet that can be scored. Appropriate dosages of the ROR modulators can be determined as set forth in Goodman L. S. Gilman A. The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 5th ed. MacMillan New York 1975 pp. 201 226 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

ROR modulators can be administered in a single daily dose or the total daily dosage can be administered in divided doses of two three or four times daily. Furthermore ROR modulators can be administered in intranasal form via topical use of suitable intranasal vehicles or via transdermal routes using those forms of transdermal skin patches well known to those of ordinary skill in that art. To be administered in the form of a transdermal delivery system the dosage administration can be continuous rather than intermittent throughout the dosage regimen. Other illustrative topical preparations include creams ointments lotions aerosol sprays and gels wherein the concentration of the ROR modulator ranges from about 0.1 to about 15 w w or w v.

The ROR modulators can also each be administered in amounts that are sufficient to treat or prevent ROR associated diseases. These diseases include but are not limited to Autoimmune Inflammatory and Metabolic diseases either individually or in combination with one or more agents and or methods for treating and preventing these ROR regulated diseases.

Compounds according to the present invention may be administered in combination with the following non limiting examples of therapeutic agents and methods for treating and preventing these ROR regulated diseases in any combination that may include but are not limited to any of the following glucocorticoids nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs NSAIDs non limiting examples include acetominophen aspirin capsaicin diclofenac diclofenac misoprostol efenamic acid etodolac felbinac fenoprofen flurbiprofen ketoprofen ibuprofen indomethacin ketorolac loxoprofen meclofenamate meloxicam nabumetone naproxen nimesulide oxaprozin piroxicam sulindac tolmetin cyclooxygenase COX 2 inhibitors non limiting examples include celecoxib valdecoxib etoricoxib lumiracoxib parecoxib licofelone ML3000 disease modifying antirheumatic drugs DMARDs methotrexate chloroquine hydroxychloroquine cyclophosphamide Cytoxan inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase IMPDH inhibitors a non limiting example is mycophenolate mofetil Cellcept Myfortic sirolimus everolimus rapamycin purine nucleoside phosphorylase inhibitors de novo purine synthesis inhibitors non limiting examples include polygentamate derivatives of methotrexate antifolate compounds dihydroorotate dehydrogenase inhibitors malononitrilamides prostaglandins PGE2 inhibitors P2X7 receptor inhibitors proteinase activated receptor 2 PAR 2 inhibitors inhibitors of activated Complement non limiting examples include Eculizumab Pexelizumab complement C3 C5 convertase inhibitors a non limiting example is Nafamostat mesilate active convertase inhibitors complement C5aR antagonists EP4 agonists prostaglandin I2 analogs non limiting examples include iloprost cicaprost treprostinil Sulphasalazine SASP 5 aminosalicylic acid 5 ASA immunomodulator drugs non limiting examples include azathioprine AZA 6 mercaptopurine 6 MP methotrexate MTX calcineurin inhibitors non limiting examples include cyclosporine voclosporine tacrolimus interleukin 10 AG011 placenta derived cells PDA001 mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule MAdCAM inhibitors PF 00547659 GLP 2 agonists non limiting examples include ZP1848 ALX 0600 anti CD3 CCR9 inhibitors lenalidomide Revlimid recombinant human interleukin 11 CXCR2 Antagonists a non limiting example is SB 656933 glucagon like peptide 2 GLP 2 analogue Teduglutide insulin like growth factor 1 IGF 1 Increlex synthetic guanylhydrazone semapimod CPSI 2364 intracellular adhesion molecule 1 ICAM 1 inhibitor alicaforsen stem cell therapeutics a non limiting example is Prochymal activated protein C aPC vitamin D analogs a non limiting example is calcipotriene retinoids a non limiting example is tazarotene phototherapy non limiting examples include broadband ultraviolet B light narrow band ultraviolet B light psoralen plus ultraviolet A light methotrexate cyclosporine acitretin CCR6 inhibitors CCL20 inhibitors deoxyspergualin alkylate deoxyribonucleic acid DNA agents tumor necrosis factor TNF alpha inhibitors non limiting examples include etanercept infliximab adalimumab certolizumab pegol Cimzia golimumab CNTO 148 inhibitors of TNF alpha converting enzyme Janus kinase JAK 1 2 and or 3 inhibitors non limiting examples include Tofacitinib Xeljanz INCB 28050 Ruxolitinib spleen tyrosine kinase SYK inhibitors a non limiting example is R 788 caspase inhibitor chemokine receptor antagonists protein kinase C pkc inhibitors a non limiting example is Enzastaurin p38 mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK inhibitors caspase inhibitors NF B modulators B cell inhibitors Hydroxychloroquine B lymphocyte stimulator BLyS inhibitors a non limiting example is belimumab Benlysta membrane bound and soluble B cell activating factor inhibitors a non limiting example is LY2127399 inhibitors that antagonize the binding of BLyS and APRIL a proliferation inducing ligand cytokines to B cells in order to prevent B cell maturation and autoantibody production a non limiting example is Atacicept anti CD19 CD20 inhibitors non limiting examples include Rituximab Ocrelizumab Ofatumumab CD22 inhibitors a non limiting example is Epratuzumab T cell inhibitors non limiting examples include Alefacept Amevive IPP 201101 interferon inhibitors non limiting examples include MEDI 545 rontalizumab fontalizumab toll like receptor inhibitors prasterone estrogen receptor antagonist fulvestrant cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated antigen 4 CTLA 4 Ig a non limiting example is Abatacept Orencia v set domain containing T cell activation inhibitor 1 VTCN1 B7 H4 agonists AMP 110 interleukin 1 receptor antagonists AMG 108 Anakinra Kineret interleukin 1 beta antagonists non limiting examples include canakinumab Xoma 052 soluble IL 1 receptors a non limiting example is rilonacept interleukin 2R antagonists non limiting examples include basiliximab Simulect daclizumab Zenapax interleukin 6 receptor antagonists non limiting examples include Tocilizumab Actemra calcipotriene betamethasone Taclonex fumarate Panaclar BG 12 interleukin 15 inhibitors interleukin 17 and interleukin 17 receptor inhibitors non limiting examples include Secukinumab Brodalumab Ixekizumab RG7624 DHODH inhibitors a non limiting example is Vidofludimus interleukin 18 inhibitors T helper Th 17 cell inhibitors interleukin 12 interleukin 23 inhibitors non limiting examples include Ustekinumab CNTO 1275 briakinumab ABT 874 interleukin 22 inhibitors interleukin 23 inhibitors a non limiting example is ustekinumab interleukin 12 inhibitors a non limiting example is ustekinumab alpha interferons beta interferons Interferon beta 1a Avonex Rebif Interferon beta 1b Betaseron Betaferon Glatiramer acetate Copaxone selective adhesion molecule inhibitors integrin antagonists Natalizumab Tysabri vedolizumab sphingosine 1 phosphate receptor S1P R agonists a non limiting example is Fingolimod Gilenya fumarate derivative immunomodulators a non limiting example is BG 12 Tecfidera laquinimod anti LFA 1 a non limiting example is Efalizumab Raptiva MBP 8298 cladribin a non limiting example is Mylinax Novantrone isoxanol dihydroorotate dehydrogenase DHODH and tyrosine kinase inhibitor a non limiting example is teriflunomide HMR 1726 Revimmune cyclophosphamide Fampridine SR 4 aminopyridine Panaclar dimethylfumarate MBP8298 dirucotide synthetic peptide version of a portion of human myelin basic protein Campath alemtuzumab anti CD52 Cladribine purine analogs Fingolimod sphingosine 1 phosphate receptor agonists Laquinimod Teriflunomide de novo pyrimidine synthesis inhibitors non limiting examples include brequinar leflunomide Arava active metabolites of leflunomide photodynamic therapy PDT with verteporfin Anti angiogenic factors non limiting examples include vascular endothelial growth factor A VEGFA inhibitors non limiting examples include pegaptanib sodium ranibizumab bevacizumab CCR3 inhibitors anti CD48 beta 2 agonists leukotriene modifiers phosphodiesterase PDE inhibitors non limiting examples include tetomilast ibudilast selective phosphodiesterase 4 PDE 4 inhibitors non limiting examples include rolipram roflumilast piclamilast pentoxifylline inhibitors targeting IgE Omalizumab Th2 cytokine inhibitors non limiting examples include suplatast tosilate sIL 4R IL 5 inhibitors Macrolides Ketolide adenosine A2B antagonists kappa B kinase 2 inhibitors prostanoid and F2 isoprostane antagonists Nitric oxide donors inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitors toll like receptor modulators Lorcaserin phentermine topiramate bupropion naltrexone Anti CD3 Antithymocyte globulin serine protease inhibitors a non limiting example is alpha 1 antitrypsin AAT tyrosine kinase inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors insulin Antigen Specific Tolerance inducting agents to Type 1 Diabetes non limiting examples include Glutamate Decarboxylase 65 and Heat Shock Protein treatments cannabinoid receptor 1 CB1 antagonists long acting glucagon like peptide 1 GLP1 analogues dipeptidyl peptidase 4 DPP4 inhibitors vasoactive intestinal peptide pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide receptor 2 VPAC2 agonists Glucokinase activators Glucagon receptor antagonists Cytosolic phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase PEPCK inhibitors sodium glucose co transporter 2 SGLT2 inhibitors salsalate I B kinase IKK inhibitors nuclear factor kappa B inhibitors interleukin 1 IL 1 receptor antagonists IL 1 beta specific antibody sirtuin 1 SIRT1 activators selective peroxisome proliferator activated receptor PPAR modulators SPPARMs 11 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 11 HSD1 inhibitors PPAR ligands non limiting examples include rosiglitazone pioglitazone troglitazone thiazolidinediones glitazones Warfarin coumadin pradaxa non limiting examples include dabigatran etexilate mesylate anti thrombotics Statins hydroxy methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase HMG CoA reductase inhibitors ezetimibe fenofibrates niacin amlodipine Vascular cell adhesion molecule VCAM antagonists Thromboxane A2 antagonists prostaglandin D2 receptor 1 antagonists G protein coupled receptor GPCR modulators cannabinoid receptor 1 also known as CNR1 CB1 receptor antagonists Rimonabant cholesteryl ester transfer protein CETP inhibitors JTT 705 chemokine C C motif receptor 2 CCR2 antagonists Phospholipase A2 inhibitors peroxisome proliferator activated receptor PPAR agonists leucovorin folinic acid 5 FU oxaliplatin irinotecan capecitabine oxaliplatin bevacizumab cetuximab Panitumumab doxorubicin mitomycin C FAM and combinations thereof among others.

Examples of synthetic pathways useful for making ROR modulators of the present invention are set forth in the Examples below and generalized herein.

The starting materials I to III shown in scheme 1 wherein Q is a group capable of participating in a transition metal catalyzed cross coupling reaction such as a chloride bromide iodide or triflate are commercially available or readily prepared from commercially available compounds. In some cases it may be desirable to convert Q to a boronic acid derivative prior to the coupling reaction with Het W.

Alkylation can be accomplished by standard methods such as treatment of the quinoline derivatives with NaH or KCOfollowed by a benzyl halide such as a substituted benzyl bromide. In some cases it may be desirable to incorporate a protecting group on the functionality on the benzyl group. This can be chosen such that it can be later removed once the key steps coupling and or alkylation are complete. The use and selection of protecting groups is well documented in the organic synthesis literature. A particularly useful guide in this process is by Peter G. M. Wuts and T. W. Greene 4ed. Wiley 2007.

The resulting benzylamines may then be coupled to the heteroaromatic derivatives Het W in which Het is a 5 7 membered heteroaromatic compound which may incorporate a protecting group as appropriate and W is a functional group capable of participating in a transition metal catalyzed cross coupling reaction such as a Suzuki reaction. Skilled organic chemists will understand how to select the particular choice of X and Y for a given desired transformation and incorporate the appropriate protection deprotection methods where needed. See for example N. Kudo et al. 2006 45 1282 1284 and Dvorak C. A. et al. 2005 70 4188 4190 Barder T. E. et al. 2005 127 4685 4696.

Carrying out the coupling reaction will then lead to the target compounds VII to IX after protecting group removal if necessary.

A process for the preparation of heteroaryl derivatives for which the starting materials not are commercially available or readily synthesized may also be prepared starting with the 4 substituted anilines X and XI wherein Q a heteroaromatic derivative as illustrated in Scheme 2.

Where Q is stable to acidic conditions the aniline may be acylated with an acryloyl derivative followed by cyclization in the presence of a strong acid such as HSOto give compounds of formula XIII or XIV. These compounds can be converted to compound XII by a series of reductions and the products can be alkylated to give XV XVII as described above. If protecting groups are employed they can be inserted and removed at appropriate points.

Alternatively an alkyl alcohol can be added ortho to the aniline nitrogen atom using techniques well known in organic synthesis for example using an organometallic coupling reaction with an alkenyl or alkynyl alcohol followed by reduction if necessary. These alkyl alcohols can then undergo oxidatetive cyclization in the presence of Rh complexes to give compounds of formula XIII which can then be further elaborated to compounds of the invention using standard techniques. See for example Fuita K. i. et al. 2004 6 2785.

Procedures suitable for indole and indoline derivatives are shown in Scheme 3. An indole derivative of formula XVIII in which Q a heteroaromatic species suitably protected is alkylated with a benzyl halide in the presence of a base for example NaH or KCO to provide a N benzyl indole of formula XXI which can be deprotected as appropriate.

Alternatively an indole derivative of formula XIX in which Q is a leaving group suitable for use in a Suzuki reaction or other organo metallic coupling reaction may be alkylated with a substituted benzyl halide incorporating protecting group as necessary in the presence of a suitable base for example NaH to give a N benzyl derivative XXII. Suzuki or other suitable coupling with a heterocyclic partner as described above then can give the heterocyclic substituted indole derivative which can be deprotected if necessary. Alternatively an indole of formula XIX may be reduced by treatment with a suitable reducing agent for example in the case where Q is a halogen atom sodium cyanoborohydride in the presence of acetic acid to give an indoline derivative XX. In some cases it may be appropriate to convert the Q group to a different leaving group for example from a halide to a borate ester. Such transformations are well presented in the chemistry literature. A coupling reaction with a suitably functionalized heteroaromatic species can then furnish the target compound of the invention XXIV after deprotection if necessary. In some cases it may be feasible to start indoline syntheses with an indoline derivative already incorporating a heteroaromatic ring such as XXV. In this case an alkylation as described above for XVIII with a benzyl halide can furnish a compound of formula XXIV directly or after deprotection as appropriate.

Alternative sequences are also envisioned in which Q is a nitrile or converted to a nitrile. Subsequent reactions lead to 1 2 4 triazoles oxadiazoles and tetrazoles can be carried followed well established literature precedent. Q can also be or be converted to an alkyne following established chemistry which in turn can be reacted with a substituted azide to give 1 2 3 triazole derivatives.

In some cases it may be desirable to construct the heteroaromatic species from a carbonyl derivative such as XXVI XXVII or XXVIII Y H OH NHR or OR wherein Ris H lower alkyl or OR wherein Ris H or lower alkyl and Ris lower alkyl or another substituent suitable for the displacement chemistry associated with the intended heterocycle construction. Such intermediates can be alkylated as above with the appropriate benzyl derivatives to give the benyzlated derivatives XXIX XXX and XXXI followed by elaboration of the carbonyl derivative to the desired heterocyclic derivative XXXII XXXIII and XXXIV using the chemistry appropriate to the target heterocycle. In general the sequence of steps necessary to carry out these transformations is well established in the chemistry literature. The sequence of the steps may be altered to suit the particular selection of target available starting materials and experimental convenience.

In many cases it may be more desirable to start with a functionalized bycylic core such as IV V VI XIX or XX that can be converted to a carbonyl containing compound such as XXIX XXX or XXXI using standard organometallic catalyzed acylation reactions.

The disclosure is further illustrated by the following examples which are not to be construed as limiting this disclosure in scope or spirit to the specific procedures herein described. It is to be understood that the examples are provided to illustrate certain embodiments and that no limitation to the scope of the disclosure is intended thereby. It is to be further understood that resort may be had to various other embodiments modifications and equivalents thereof which may suggest themselves to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure and or scope of the appended claims.

The following non limiting compound examples serve to illustrate further embodiments of the ROR modulators. It is to be understood that any embodiments listed in the Examples section are embodiments of the ROR modulators and as such are suitable for use in the methods and compositions described above.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments disclosed in the examples which are intended as illustrations of a few aspects of the invention and any embodiments that are functionally equivalent are within the scope of this invention. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those shown and described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art and are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

To a stirred solution of 2 4 methylphenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 trifluoropropan 2 ol 1 100.0 g 380 mmol in CCl 750 mL was added NBS 68.6 g 380 mmol in portions and AIBN 0.63 g 0.01 eq. at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 80 C. and stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 10 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.35 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product. The crude product was diluted with water and extracted with dichloromethane 2 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water then brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with pet ether to give 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 2 as a mixture of mono and di bromo derivatives. HNMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.75 7.64 m 2 H 7.48 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 4.5 s 2 H 4.14 4.09 m 1 H .

To a stirred solution of 1 2 3 4 tertrahydroquinoline 3 10.0 g 75 mmol in DMF 100 mL was added NBS 17.4 g 98 mmol in portions at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 10 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction was quenched with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 200 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude product. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography by eluting with 3 EtOAc Pet ether to give 6 bromo 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 4 as a light yellow liquid. HNMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.05 7.01 m 2 H 6.36 d 1 H J 8.8 Hz 3.29 3.27 m 2 H 2.72 t 2 H J 6 Hz 1.94 1.89 m 2 H .

To a stirred solution of 6 bromo 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 4 4.0 g 18 mmol in acetonitrile 100 mL was added KCO 7.8 g 56 mmol the mixture was cooled to 0 C. and stirred for 10 min. 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 2 6.3 g 1.0 eq. was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was heated to 80 C. for 20 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 10 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.45 . At the end of this period 30 the starting compound 4 was present.

After 70 completion of reaction the reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 2 EtOAc Pet ether to give 2 4 6 bromo 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 5 as a white solid. HNMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.65 d 2 H J 8.0 Hz 7.30 d 2 H J 8.0 Hz 7.07 s 1 H 7.03 dd 1 H J 8.8 J 2.0 Hz 6.29 d 1 H J 8.8 Hz 4.47 s 2 H 3.36 t 2 h J 5.6 Hz 2.79 t 2 H J 6.4 Hz 2.01 m 2 H .

To a stirred solution of 2 4 6 bromo 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 5 0.2 g 0.42 mmol in THF 10 mL was added a 1M solution of n BuLi in hexanes 0.85 mL 0.85 mmol at 78 C. and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. DMF 0.59 mL 1.8 eq. was added dropwise at 78 C. and the reaction mixture slowly allowed to warm to RT and stir for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC 20 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.1 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 12 14 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 6 carbaldehyde 6 as a yellow oil. HNMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.68 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.28 s 1 H 7.23 d 2 H J 8 Hz 6.41 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 4.51 s 2 H 3.51 s 1 H 3.46 t 2 H J 6 Hz 2.81 t 2 H J 6 H 2.03 t 2 H J 5.2 Hz .

A stirred solution of acetone 0.10 mL 1.4 mmol NaOH 0.2 g 5.0 mmol and water 4 mL was cooled to 0 C. 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 Hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 6 carbaldehyde 6 0.2 g 0.48 mmol dissolved in ethanol 5 mL was added at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir for 8 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.25 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give crude E 4 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolin 6 yl but 3 en 2 one 7 as a yellow liquid. LC MS 96.7 at 215 nm m z 418 M H .

To a solution of E 4 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolin 6 yl but 3 en 2 one 7 0.45 g 0.98 mmol in water 10 mL NaOH 0.06 g 1.5 mmol TBAB 0.475 g 1.5 mmol tosyl hydrazine 0.22 g 3.0 mmol were added at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 85 C. for 12 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 30 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by preparative HPLC followed by preparative TLC to afford 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 4 6 3 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl propan 2 ol 8 as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.5 br s 1 H 8.63 s 1 H 7.63 d 2 H J 8 Hz 7.39 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.29 s 1 H 7.22 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 6.43 d 1 H J 8.8 Hz 6.17 s 1 H 4.56 s 2 H 3.40 t 2 H J 5.2 Hz 2.78 t 2 H J 6 Hz 2.17 s 3 H 1.97 t 2 H J 5.6 Hz . LC MS 95.94 at 215 nm and 95.36 at 254 nm m z 470.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 9 2.0 g 10 mmol in DMF 50 mL was added DMAP 3.14 g 25 mmol the mixture was cooled to 0 C. and stirred for 10 min. Boc O 2.9 mL 13 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 15 min at same temperature. The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.8 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 10 EtOAc Pet ether to give tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 as a white solid.

To a stirred solution of 2 4 6 bromo 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 5 0.8 g 1.7 mmol and tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 0.65 g 2.2 mmol in DMF 30 mL and water 3 mL was added CsCO 1.67 g 5.1 mmol the solution was deoxygenated by the passage of argon for 2 h. Tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0.2 g 0.17 mmol was added and the mixture was heated to 80 C. and stirred overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.2 .

By LC MS 50 de Boc product was observed. The reaction mass was filtered through a celite bed and concentrated. The crude product was treated with 2M HCl in dioxane and stirred for 2 h.

After completion of reaction the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure the residue was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated NaHCOsolution. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude product. The crude product was purified by preparative TLC and to give 2 4 6 1H pyrazol 4 yl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 11 as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.68 s 1 H 8.62 s 1 H 7.79 br s 2 H 7.63 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.39 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.15 s 1 H 7.09 dd 1 H J 8.4 J 2.4 Hz 6.41 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 4.54 s 2 H 3.38 t 2 H J 5.6 Hz 2.77 t 2 H J 6 Hz 1.98 1.94 m 2H . LC MS 97.22 at 215 nm and 95.73 at 254 nm m z 456.1 M H .

3 4 Dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 12 25.0 g 170 mmol in DMF 50 mL was added to a stirred solution of NBS 33.2 g 186 mmol in DMF 250 mL at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.35 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with water and then solid formed. The solid was filtered and dried under vacuum to afford the crude product. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 3 EtOAc Pet ether to give 6 bromo 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 13 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.73 s 1 H 7.28 dd 2 H J 10.8 J 2.4 Hz 6.69 d 1 H J 8.0 Hz 2.95 t 2 H J 7.2 Hz 2.65 2.61 m 2 H LC MS 96.7 at 215 nm m z 418 M H .

A solution of 6 bromo 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 13 10.0 g 44 mmol in THF 25 mL was added to stirred solution of 60 NaH 3.53 g 88 mmol in THF 100 mL at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 30 min. A solution of 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 2 18.4 g 55.3 mmol in THF 25 mL was added and slowly heated to 65 C. overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.45 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was poured into ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 200 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was washed with pet ether followed by dichloromethane to afford 6 bromo 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 14. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.65 s 1 H 7.61 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.47 d 1 H J 2.0 Hz 7.35 7.30 m 3 H 6.85 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 5.17 s 2 H 2.98 t 2 H J 6.8 Hz 2.71 m 2 H .

To a stirred solution of 6 bromo 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 14 2.0 g 4.0 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added CuCN 1.2 g 12.0 mmol in a sealed tube. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 150 C. for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.4 .

After completion of reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT quenched with aq. ammonia and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 10 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 2 oxo 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 6 carbonitrile 15 that was used directly in the next step.

To a stirred solution of 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 2 oxo 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 6 carbonitrile 15 0.3 g 0.70 mmol in n butanol 100 mL was added KCO 0.96 g 7.0 mmol and acetylhydrazide 0.33 g 7.3 mmol at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 140 C. and stirred for 40 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 5 MeOH dicloromethane KMnO4 active Rvalue 0.5 .

After completion of reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 70 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 6 3 methyl 1H 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 16 as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.56 s 1 H 8.65 s 1 H 7.84 s 1H 7.71 d 1 H J 8.0 Hz 7.62 d 2 H J 8.0 Hz 7.37 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 6.97 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 5.21 s 2 H 3.03 t 2 H J 7.6 Hz 2.74 t 2 H J 7.6 Hz 2.37 s 3 H . LC MS 96.79 at 215 nm and 92.43 at 254 nm m z 485.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 6 3 methyl 1H 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 16 0.14 g 0.20 mmol in THF 20 mL was added BH DMS 2M 0.31 mL 0.6 mmol at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux and was stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with methanol and concentrated under reduced pressure. 2N HCl 10 mL was added to crude product and the mixture heated to 100 C. for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 .

After completion of reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT the pH was adjusted to 10 with NaHCOsolution and it was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by preparative HPLC to afford 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 4 6 3 methyl 1H 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl propan 2 ol 17 as a brown semi solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.67 7.62 m 3 H 7.51 s 1 H 7.34 7.31 m 3 H 6.49 d 1 H J 8.8 Hz 4.57 s 2 H 3.49 s 1 H 3.42 t 2 H J 6 Hz 2.88 t 2 H J 6 Hz 2.47 s 3 H 2.10 2.00 m 3 H . LC MS 95.06 at 215 nm and 95.17 at 254 nm m z 471.1 M H .

In a steel bomb a mixture of 6 bromo 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 14 1.0 g 2.1 mmol sodium formate 0.09 g 1.3 mmol and PdClP Ph 0.12 g 0.17 mmol in DMF 10 mL was deoxygenated with argon for 20 min and then CO gas was introduced into the bomb the bomb was sealed. The pressure adjusted to 250 psi and the temperature raised to 100 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 h at 100 C. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.4 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 80 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 25 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 2 oxo 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 6 carbaldehyde 18 as a colorless liquid which was used directly in the next step.

To a stirred solution of acetone 0.2 g 2.7 mmol and NaOH 0.1 g 2.5 mmol in water 4 mL was added 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 2 oxo 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 6 carbaldehyde 18 0.1 g 0.23 mmol dissolved in EtOH 15 mL at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and was stirred overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.3 .

After completion of the reaction reaction the pH was adjusted to 6 with KHSOsolution and extracted with MTBE 2 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give E 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 6 3 oxobut 1 en 1 yl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 19 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.67 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.42 d 1 H J 16.4 Hz 7.39 m 1 H 7.33 7.27 m 3 H 6.85 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 6.63 d 1 H J 16.0 Hz 5.21 s 2H 3.03 t 2 H J 8.4 Hz 2.82 t 2 H J 8.0 Hz 2.35 s 3 H . LC MS 73.98 m z 472.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of E 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 6 3 oxobut 1 en 1 yl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 19 0.15 g 0.32 mmol in water 5 mL was added tosyl hydrazide 0.186 g 0.38 mmol TBAB 0.153 g 0.48 mmol and NaOH 0.019 g 0.48 mmol simultaneously at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 80 C. and stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 .

After completion of reaction brine solution was added to the reaction mixture and it was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with pure ethyl acetate to afford 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 6 3 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 20 as an off while solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.44 s 1 H 8.64 s 1 H 7.62 d 3 H J 8.0 Hz 7.48 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 7.37 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 6.91 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 6.35 s 1 H 5.20 s 2 H 3.00 t 2 H J 7.2 Hz 2.73 t 2 H J 7.2 Hz 2.23 br s 3 H 1.23 s 1 H . LC MS 95.13 at 215 nm and 92.96 at 254 nm m z 484.1 M H .

A suspension of 6 bromo 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 14 0.5 g 1.0 mmol and tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 0.44 g 1.5 mmol in DMF 5 mL was deoxygenated by passage of argon for 20 min PdCl dppf 0.081 g 0.1 mmol and potassium acetate 0.30 g 3.1 mmol was added at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 60 C. for 4 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 70 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.1 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with ice cold water. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude product. A solution of hydrochloric acid in dioxane 1 mL was added to the crude product and the mixture was stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford a crude product that was titurated with diethyl ether to afford 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 6 1H pyrazol 4 yl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 21 as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.9 s 1 H 8.64 s 1 H 8.08 br s 1 H 7.83 br s 1 H 7.61 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.48 d 1 H J 2.0 Hz 7.40 7.30 m 3 H 7.07 br s 1 H 6.88 d 1 H J 6.6 Hz 5.19 s 2 H 2.98 t 2 H J 7.6 Hz 2.71 t 2 H J 8.0 Hz . LC MS 97.46 at 215 nm and 97.12 at 254 nm m z 470.1 M H .

KCO 0.97 g 7.0 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 2 oxo 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 6 carbonitrile 15 0.3 g 0.70 mmol and acetylhydrazide 0.52 mL 7.0 mmol in n butanol 25 mL at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 125 C. and stirred for 3 days. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 5 MeOH dicloromethane Rvalue 0.15 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product. The crude product was purified over silica gel 60 120 mesh column chromatography by eluting with 50 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 6 3 methyl 1H 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 16 as an off white solid. 1H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 13.56 s 1 H 8.65 s 1 H 7.84 s 1 H 7.71 d 1 H J 8.0 Hz 7.62 d 2 H J 8.0 Hz 7.37 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 6.97 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 5.21 s 2 H 3.03 t 2 H J 7.6 Hz 2.74 t 2 H J 7.6 Hz 2.37 s 3 H . LC MS 96.79 at 215 nm and 92.43 at 254 nm m z 485.1 M H .

60 NaH 4.04 g 101 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 2 5.0 g 25.3 mmol and 5 bromoindoline 22 11.02 g 32.8 mmol in THF 50 mL at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was refluxed for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 20 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.55 .

After 70 completion of reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 300 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel 100 200 mesh eluting with 10 EtOAc Pet ether to give 2 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 23 as a pale yellow liquid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.68 d 2 H J 8.8 Hz 7.42 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.17 s 1 H 7.14 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 6.32 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 4.25 s 2 H 3.41 s 1 H 3.35 d 2 H J 8.0 Hz 2.98 t 2 H J 8.0 Hz .

To a stirred solution of 2 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 23 3.0 g 6.6 mmol in THF 15 mL was added a solution of 1M n BuLi in hexanes 13.2 mL 13.2 mmol at 78 C. and the mixture was stirred for 30 min. DMF 0.29 mL 11.8 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 15 min at the same temperature. The resulting reaction mixture was allowed warm to RT and stir for 3 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.3 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 150 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give crude 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 5 carbaldehyde 24 as a liquid. LC MS 71.77 at 215 nm m z 404.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 5 carbaldehyde 24 0.3 g 0.74 mmol in HO 10 mL was added acetone 0.18 mL 2.2 mmol dropwise at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. 10 NaOH 4 mL was added dropwise at 0 C. the mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate the organic layer was separated dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give E 4 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indolin 5 yl but 3 en 2 one 25 as a yellow liquid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.69 d 2 H J 7.6 Hz 7.46 7.38 m 3 H 7.30 s 1 H 7.23 s 1 H 6.52 d 1 H J 15.6 Hz 6.42 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 4.35 s 2 H 3.80 bs 1 H 3.52 3.43 m 2 H 3.05 t 2 H J 8.4 Hz 2.33 s 3 H .

A mixture of E 4 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indolin 5 yl but 3 en 2 one 25 0.5 g 1.1 mmol tosyl hydrazine 0.25 g 1.3 mmol TBAB 0.54 g 1.6 mmol in THF 50 mL was added NaOH 0.067 g 1.6 mmol in water 4 mL at RT. The reaction mixture was heated to 100 C. and stirred overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.45 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT diluted with ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 80 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was triturated with ethyl acetate 60 mL to afford 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 4 5 3 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl indolin 1 yl methyl phenyl propan 2 ol 26 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR DMSO d 12.20 br s 1 H 8.66 s 1 H 8.31 s 1 H 7.66 d 2 H J 8.0 Hz 7.49 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.37 br s 2 H 6.58 br s 1 H 6.22 s 1 H 4.35 s 2 H 3.31 s 2 H 2.95 t 2 H J 8.0 Hz 2.20 br s 3 H . LC MS 99.04 at 215 nm m z 456.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of 2 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 23 0.4 g 0.88 mol and tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 0.336 g 1.2 mmol in DMF 4 mL and water 2 mL was added CsCO 0.800 g 2.5 mmol the mixture was deoxygenated by the passage of argon for 2 h. Pd PPh 0.098 g 0.084 mmol was added and the mixture was heated to 100 C. for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.22 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. After column purification the product was isolated with 60 purity to afford 2 4 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl indolin 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 27 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.70 br s 1 H 8.66 s 1 H 7.95 s 1 H 7.74 s 1H 7.66 d 2 H J 8.0 Hz 7.50 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.30 s 1 H 7.22 d 1 H J 8.0 Hz 6.56 d 1 H J 8.0 Hz 4.32 s 2 H 3.28 t 2 H J 8.0 Hz 2.95 2.89 m 2 H . LC MS 96.32 at 215 nm and 86.20 254 nm m z 440.1 M H . HPLC 97.58 284 nm.

To a stirred solution of 2 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 23 4.0 g 8.8 mmol in MeOH 32 mL was added EtN 3.5 mL 26 mmol and the solution was deoxygenated for 15 min. Pd dppf Cl 0.36 g 0.44 mmol was added in steel bomb and the mixture was deoxygenated with nitrogen for 15 min in the autoclave vessel. CO gas was passed through the reaction mixture the vessel sealed and was heated to 100 C. 150 psi overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 20 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.35 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was filtered through a celite bed and the eluate extracted with ethyl acetate 2 150 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 14 EtOAc Pet ether to afford methyl 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 5 carboxylate 28 as a light brown liquid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.80 d 1 H J 7.2 Hz 7.73 s 1 H 7.68 d 2 H J 8.0 Hz 7.39 d 2 H J 8.0 Hz 6.41 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 4.40 s 2 H 3.84 s 3 H 3.55 3.48 m 2 H 3.06 t 2 H J 8.8 Hz . LC MS 83.99 at m z 434.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of methyl 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 5 carboxylate 28 1.0 g 2.3 mmol in THF 5.0 mL and methanol 5.0 mL was added 10 NaOH 3 mL at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 70 C. for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 80 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.2 

After completion of reaction the reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure the residue was diluted with cold water acidified to pH 2 with 2N HCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water and brine solution dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 5 carboxylic acid as an off white solid.

To a stirred solution of 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 5 carboxylic acid 29 0.2 g 0.4 mmol in DMF 4 mL was added acetyl hydrazine 0.103 g 1.4 mmol HATU 0.27 g 0.7 mmol at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 20 min. DIPEA 0.314 g 2.0 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture allowed warm to RT and stir overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 100 EtOAc UV KMnO Rvalue 0.01 .

After completion of reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 4 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography by eluting with 80 ethyl acetate pet ether to afford N acetyl 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 5 carbohydrazide 30 as a colorless liquid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.80 s 1 H 9.83 s 1 H 9.721 s 1 H 8.70 s 1 H 7.66 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.60 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 7.46 d 1 H J 4.8 Hz 7.29 dd 1 H J 10.8 J 5.2 Hz 6.60 dd 1 H J 8.4 J 4.0 Hz 4.45 s 2 H 3.42 3.34 m 3.0 Hz 2.97 2.89 m 2 H 2.78 2.68 m 2 H 2.50 2.20 m 2 H .

A mixture of N acetyl 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 5 carbohydrazide 30 0.180 g 0.37 mmol and POCl 4 mL was heated to 130 C. for 6 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 70 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.4 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was washed with saturated NaHCOand extracted with ethyl acetate 3 80 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford the crude product. The crude product was purified by prep HPLC to afford 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 4 5 5 methyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl indolin 1 yl methyl phenyl propan 2 ol 31 as an off while solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.70 br s 1 H 7.67 d 2 H J 8.0 Hz 7.60 d 2 H J 6.8 Hz 7.47 d 2 H J 8.4 Hz 6.68 t 1 H J 6.0 Hz 4.48 s 2 H 3.49 t 2 H J 8.4 Hz 3.04 t 2 H J 8.0 Hz 2.5 s 3 H . LC MS 99.60 at 215 nm m z 458.1 M H .

Methyl 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoate can be prepared by alkylation of 5 bromoindoline with methyl 4 bromomethyl benzoate in the presence of NaH in THF using the general procedure described in Example 7 step 1.

4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl benzamide 33 can be prepared by hydrolysis of the methyl ester of 32 by treatment with NaOH in EtOH until hydrolysis is complete followed by activation of the resulting acid with isobutyl chloroformate in the presence of NMP in THF at 50 C. for 30 min and the gradual introduction of a solution of NHin THR.

4 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl indolin 1 yl methyl benzamide 34 can be prepared by deoxygenation of a solution of 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl benzamide 33 tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 and CsCOin DMF water 2 1 by the passage of argon for 20 min followed by the introduction of Pd PPh and heating the mixture to 100 C. for 2 h. Treatment of the crude product with HCl in dioxane then can provide 4 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl indolin 1 yl methyl benzamide 34.

Methyl 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoate can be prepared by alkylation of 5 bromoindoline with methyl 4 bromomethyl benzoate in the presence of NaH in THF using the general procedure described in Example 7 step 1.

4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl N methylbenzamide 35 can be prepared by hydrolysis of the methyl ester of 32 by treatment with NaOH in EtOH until hydrolysis is complete followed by treating a DMF solution of resulting acid with CHNH.HCl and HATU with DIPEA at 0 C. and allowing the mixture to stir over night at room temperature.

4 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl indolin 1 yl methyl benzamide 36 can be prepared by deoxygenation of a solution of 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl N methylbenzamide 35 tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 and CsCOin DMF water 2 1 by the passage of argon for 20 min followed by the introduction of Pd PPh and heating the mixture to 100 C. for 2 h. Treatment of the crude product with HCl in dioxane then can provide 4 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl indolin 1 yl methyl N methylbenzamide 36.

To a stirred solution of 4 bromotoluene 37 5.0 g 29 mmol in THF 70 mL was added 2.5 M n BuLi 17 mL 35 mmol dropwise at 75 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. Cyclobutanone 38 2.6 mL 35 mmol was added at the same temperature and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 10 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.25 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution at 70 C. and diluted with water. The aqueous solution was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 150 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 5 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 p tolyl cyclobutanol 39 as a colorless liquid.

To stirred solution of 1 p tolyl cyclobutanol 39 3.0 g 18 mmol in CCl 50 mL was added NBS 3.2 g 18 mmol and AIBN 0.03 g 0.18 mmol at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 10 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.2 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled poured into ice cold water and extracted with dichloromethane 2 200 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 7 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 4 bromomethyl phenyl cyclobutanol 40 as a colorless liquid.

1 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl cyclobutanol 41 can be prepared by the alkylation of 5 bromo indoline with 1 4 bromomethyl phenyl cyclobutanol 40 in the presence of NaH in THF using the procedure described in Example 7 step 1.

1 4 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl indolin 1 yl methyl phenyl cyclobutanol 42 can be prepared by coupling of 1 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl cyclobutanol 41 with tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 followed by deprotection by treatment with HCl in dioxane using the general procedure described in Example 8.

 4 1 1 1 Trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl phenyl methanol 44 can be prepared from 1 bromo 4 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl benzene 43 by palladium catalyzed carbonylation by deoxygenating a solution of 1 bromo 4 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl benzene 43 and an excess of EtN in MeOH DMF 2 1 by the passage of argon for 20 min contained in an autoclave vessel. Pd PPh can be added and the mixture further deoxygenated with argon for 20 min. Passage of CO gas through the reaction mixture and adjustment of the CO pressure to 150 psi prior to heating to 100 C. overnight can then lead to methyl 4 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl benzoate which can be treated with LAH in THF solution to afford after an aqueous workup 4 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl phenyl methanol 44.

1 Bromo 4 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl benzene 45 can be prepared by treatment of a solution of 4 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl phenyl methanol 44 in ether with PBrat room temperature for 4 h followed by quenching and aqueous workup.

5 Bromo 1 4 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 46 can be prepared from 5 bromoindoline 22 and 1 bromo 4 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl benzene 45 using the general method described in Example 7 step 1.

5 1H Pyrazol 4 yl 1 4 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 47 can be prepared from 5 bromo 1 4 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl benzyl indoline 46 using the general method described in Example 8.

5 1H Pyrazol 4 yl 1 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl indoline 48 can be prepared by alkylation of 5 bromoindoline 22 with 1 bromomethyl 4 trifluoromethylbenzene using the conditions described in Example 7 part 1 followed by palladium catalyzed coupling of the alkylation product with tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 followed by hydrolysis using the reaction conditions described in Example 8

1 4 Isopropylbenzyl 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl indoline 49 can be prepared by alkylation of 5 bromoindoline 22 with 1 bromomethyl 4 isopropylbenzene using the conditions described in Example 7 part 1 followed by palladium catalyzed coupling of the alkylation product with tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 followed by hydrolysis using the reaction conditions described in Example 8.

1 4 Isopropylbenzyl 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl indoline 50 can be prepared by alkylation of 5 bromoindoline 22 with 1 bromomethyl 4 tert butyl benzene using the conditions described in Example 7 part 1 followed by palladium catalyzed coupling of the alkylation product with tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 followed by hydrolysis using the reaction conditions described in Example 8.

NaCNBH 213.2 g 3.38 mol was added portion wise to a stirred solution of 5 bromoindole 200.0 g 1.03 mol in acetic acid 2.0 L at 10 C. and the mixture was stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 20 EtOAc pet ether Rvalue 0.4 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was basified with 10 NaOH solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 1.0 L . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude compound was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography by eluting with 10 EtOAc Pet ether to afford 5 bromoindoline 22 as a thick yellow liquid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.18 s 1 H 7.08 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.48 d J 8.4 Hz 1 H 3.55 t J 8.4 Hz 2 H 3.01 t J 8.4 Hz 2 H . LC MS 96.26 m z 198.1 M H .

60 NaH 60.0 g 1.52 mol was added portion wise to a stirred solution of 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 221.7 g 1.3 mol and 2 bromoindoline 100.0 g 0.507 mol in THF 1.0 L at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 80 C. for 3 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.65 .

The reaction mixture was quenched with ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 1.0 L . The combined organic layers were washed with water and brine. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude compound was purified over silica gel 230 400 mesh column chromatography eluting with 5 EtOAc Pet ether to afford 2 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 23 as a thick yellow liquid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.67 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.42 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.17 s 1H 7.12 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.31 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.25 s 2H 3.35 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 2.98 t J 8.0 Hz 2H LC MS 99.28 m z 454.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of 2 4 5 bromoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 23 25.0 g 55.2 mmol and tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxylate 10 21.08 g 71.7 mmol in DMF 250 mL and water 75 mL was added CsCO 53.9 g 166 mmol under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture was de oxygenated by purging argon gas into the reaction mixture for 30 min. PdCl dppf . dichloromethane 4.5 g 5.5 mmol was added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was heated to 100 C. overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 40 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.01 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was filtered through a celite bed. The filtrate was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude compound. This procedure was repeated on an additional 3 25 g batches and the crude products were combined for purification. The combined crude product was purified by chromatography over neutral alumina eluting with 50 EtOAc Pet ether to afford 2 4 5 1H pyrazol 4 yl indolin 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 27 mp 191 195 C. after crystallization from hot ethyl acetate and diethyl ether. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 12.68 bs 1H 8.63 s 1H 7.95 s 1H 7.66 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.50 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.29 s 1H 7.21 dd J 8.0 Hz J 1.6 Hz 1H 6.55 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.32 s 2H 3.30 t J 8.4 Hz 2H 2.93 t J 8.4 Hz 2H . LC MS 98.05 at 215 nm and 92.29 at 254 nm m z 441.8 M H .

The compounds according to Formula 1 are ROR and or ROR modulators and are useful in the treatment of ROR and or ROR regulated diseases. The biological activities of the compounds according to Formula 1 can be determined using any suitable assay for determining the activity of a candidate compound as a ROR and or ROR modulator as well as in tissue and in vivo models.

Peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs were sourced from freshly prepared leukocyte enriched plasma buffy coat from healthy volunteers from which PBMCs were isolated by density gradient centrifugation using Ficoll Paque PLUS GE Healthcare . Na ve CD4 T cells were isolated using the Na ve CD4 T cell Isolation Kit II Miltenyi Biotec as per manufacturer s instructions. CD4 T cells were plated at 5 10cells well in 96 well plates pre coated with immobilized human h CD3 antibody eBioscience then differentiated to T17 cells using h CD28 h IFN h IL 4 h IL 6 h IL 23 h IL 1 h TGF 1 eBioscience and maintained in a cell culture incubator at 37 C. with 5 COin TexMACS Medium Miltenyi Biotec supplemented with 1 Penicillin Streptomycin Lonza over 5 days.

Human CD4 T cells were differentiated to T17 cells as described in the presence or absence of various concentrations of compounds in a final concentration of 0.1 DMSO in TexMACS medium. Supernatants were collected and stored at 20 C. until they were to be assayed for IL 17A IL 17F IL 17AF IL 21 and or IL 22 levels as determined by Ready Set Go ELISA kits eBioscience as per manufacturer s instructions. Endpoint absorbance was read at 450 nm and 570 nm according to manufacturer s instructions eBioscience using a microplate reader Perkin Elmer . The percentage of cytokine inhibition was calculated with reference to DMSO treated cells and the ICs were determined by GraphPad Prism software and presented in the table below.

Cells were assayed for viability in the presence or absence of 1 M compound using Prestoblue Cell Viability Reagent Life Technologies as per manufacturer s instructions after 30 minutes incubation of T17 cells with reagent. Absorbance was measured at 570 nm and 600 nm using a microplate reader Perkin Elmer and data were analyzed as per manufacturer s instructions. Cell viability was determined after 5 days and expressed as a percentage of DMSO treated cells. The percentage cell viability of compound treated T17 cells are presented in the table below.

Cellular proliferation was assessed in the presence or absence of 3 M compound using Prestoblue Cell Viability Reagent Life Technologies as per manufacturer s instructions using absorbance as the output measured by a microplate reader Perkin Elmer after 30 minutes of incubation. A standard curve developed by plotting varying cell numbers versus absorbance was used to assess differences in cellular proliferation between compound treated or untreated cells after the 5 day T17 differentiation period. Percentage change in T17 cell number in the presence of compound are presented in the table below.

RNA was isolated from T17 cells and cDNA was synthesized using the Verso cDNA kit Thermo Scientific as per manufacturer s instructions. IL 17A IL 17F IL 21 IL 22 G CSF IL 23R and FOXP3 gene expression were determined for compound treated and untreated T17 cell samples using Solaris qPCR Gene expression assays Thermo Scientific with an iCycler iQ Real Time PCR Detection System Bio Rad . Individual gene expression was normalized to a panel of six reference genes ACTB TBP HPRT1 PGK1 TFRC and PPIA Thermo Scientific and analyzed by REST 2009 Qiagen in accordance to MIQE guidelines Bustin et al. 2009 55 611 622 . The effects of compounds on T17 cytokine gene expression are presented as fold change in mRNA levels of compound treated T17 cells relative to DMSO treated cells in the table below.

Compound binding to the human ROR LBD was assessed using the Human ROR Assay System INDIGO Biosciences Inc. as per manufacturer s instructions. Binding to the ROR LBD was assessed using gradient concentrations of the indicated compounds in a final concentration of 0.5 DMSO where ICs were generated using Graphpad Prism and presented in the table below.

The Time Resolved Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer TR FRET assay kit Life Technologies was used to measure compound efficacy to disrupt or enhance ligand mediated interaction of the co activator and co repressor peptides with the purified GST tagged i ROR LBD or ii ROR LBD. The ROR LBD and ROR LBD each have a basal level of interaction with the co activator D22 or co repressor NCoR1 D2 in the absence of ligand thus it is possible to identify compounds that inhibit or induce ROR and or ROR co activator co repressor interactions thus determining ROR ROR or ROR ROR compound selectivity. The assay was performed as per manufacturer s instructions and TR FRET was assessed 2 and 20 hours post assay initiation. Compounds were identified to i have no impact on either co activator displacement or co activator recruitment from the assessed LBD ii promote co activator displacement from the assessed LBD iii promote co repressor recruitment to the assessed LBD or iv concurrently promote co activator displacement from the assessed LBD and co repressor recruitment to the assessed LBD. The ECpotency of compounds tested for co activator displacement and co repressor recruitment to ROR and ROR are presented in the table below.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments disclosed in the examples which are intended as illustrations of a few aspects of the invention and any embodiments that are functionally equivalent are within the scope of this invention. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those shown and described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art and are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. All patents patent applications and publications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation numerous equivalents to the specific embodiments described specifically herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed in the scope of the following claims.

