---

title: Protecting online meeting access using secure personal universal resource locators
abstract: Access to online collaborative resources such as an online meeting, web conference, online chat room, an online video conference, an online audio conference, a collaboratively edited document, a collaborative browsing session, an online social networking group, or a web site is secured by providing a first user-specific URL to a first user for addressing collaborative resource; responsive to the first user accessing the first user-specific URL, granting by a computing system access to the collaborative event to the first user; and responsive to a second user accessing the first user-specific URL, preventing by a computing system access to the collaborative event to the second user. Optionally, time criteria for accessing the first user-specific URL may be used to invalidating the first user-specific URL, wherein access to the collaborative resource is disabled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09219735&OS=09219735&RS=09219735
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09219735
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130114
---
The invention generally relates to protecting access to and participation in online collaborative sessions such as online meetings web conferences chat sessions co editing of documents in the cloud etc.

There is a wide variety of online collaborative sessions such as social web group discussion threads asynchronous or synchronous chat rooms online meetings web conferences and presentations e.g. WebEx GoToMeeting etc. online training and educational classes e.g. WizIQ DimDim Blackboard etc. and even online co editing of documents DropBox GoogleDocs etc. .

Sharing hyperlinks links or universal resource locators URLs to on line meeting rooms is a common scenario in an online collaboration environment. A potential user or participant may not be aware of the login information an ongoing virtual meeting for example so he or she may contact someone that is currently a participant in the online meeting room to ask for the meeting URL and password. The contacted participant might respond by sending to the potential user the URL to the online meeting room in the form of a forwarded electronic message email SMS IM etc. or verbally via a phone call or online voice connection. For most scenarios this makes sense and doesn t cause any issue.

However some critically sensitive online collaborative sessions may contain information that could be sensitive confidential or even illegal to share outside of a small group such as information about a resource action a company acquisition or future earnings that have not been made public. Such sharing of information introduces legal commercial and even national security ramifications where an uninvited user who has been informed with enough information about the on line meeting room or document or thread etc. can join the on line room and thus not comply with any number of policies legal or otherwise.

Access to online collaborative resources such as an online meeting web conference online chat room an online video conference an online audio conference a collaboratively edited document a collaborative browsing session an online social networking group or a web site is secured by providing a first user specific URL to a first user for addressing collaborative resource responsive to the first user accessing the first user specific URL granting by a computing system access to the collaborative event to the first user and responsive to a second user accessing the first user specific URL preventing by a computing system access to the collaborative event to the second user. Optionally time criteria for accessing the first user specific URL may be used to invalidating the first user specific URL wherein access to the collaborative resource is disabled.

The inventors of the present and the related invention have recognized problems not yet recognized by those skilled in the relevant arts. Use of universal resource locators URL s and passwords in the ordinary manner for online collaborative sessions as described in the Background section of this disclosure can pose potential risks to legal compliance fiduciary responsibilities and even national security matters. Even when an enterprise trusts its users it is advisable to plan for an internal threat actor who might send login information for a virtual meeting a closed group social discussion thread or a shared document such as a URL and a password to a user who might find a way to spy on the meeting room. In the situation of a shared document such a user could be mischievous and actually edit the document to insert incorrect information delete useful information or cause embarrassment to the author or authors.

So the present inventors set out to develop an easy to use method and mechanism to invite a user to an on line collaborative session such as an online virtual meeting room such that the invitee and a potential internal threat actor cannot compromise the system by forwarding the on line collaborative session access information to an unauthorized user.

In order to achieve this the present inventors first reviewed the strengths and weaknesses of the present methods for controlling access to online collaborative sessions.

Some current systems approach the possibility of unauthorized access to an online collaborative session using ACLs access control lists with or without user passwords. An ACL is typically a list of authorized users created in advance of the online collaborative session and managed by the moderator or owner of the session such as a manager of an online meeting room. While this is one option to control access to an online meeting room it requires active management by the room manager. Typically in such a scenario an application program running on a collaboration server is provided for a room manager to look up a registered user and assign them to the ACL but it s not typical to change these frequently and on the fly. Some weak points of ACL s are that they are usually fairly static and unchanging in nature such that once a user has been granted access e.g. added to the ACL then they will have access as long as the online meeting room is available for use. This leaves a security hole in the system if the room manager does not remember to remove users from the ACL after a use of the online meeting room.

Additionally the list of users is stored in a data store by the collaboration server system. In general the search function of an online meeting room system must not show the rooms that are access controlled to users who do not have access. So there results in performance bottlenecks due to ACLs since the technology becomes much more complex to maintain expensive to execute and does not fit well with more dynamic use cases.

Two other weak points for ACLs are cloud based solutions with multi tenant requirements and dynamically changing user bases. In these cases it can be hard or impossible to build a complete ACL and so it s typically simpler to use a password than to manage ACLs.

Passwords are typically assigned to online meeting rooms that contain sensitive information and are used as an alternative or supplement to entries in ACLs. Among the weak points of passwords is that they are easily shared by users who know the password. A user e.g. potential internal threat actor can send the room information name URL and password to an unauthorized user thereby allowing the unauthorized user to view the information and creating a non compliance situation.

The inventors have therefore endeavored to provide a new solution which is easy to use but which avoids these vulnerabilities and which incorporates one or more of the following features in its various embodiments 

Embodiments of the present invention offer a new approach so that sharing of the on line meeting information can be achieved without compromising the security of the meeting room or other online collaborative session. This actually will allow easy access to the room for the authorized users but if an internal threat actor attempts to propagate the access information either via a forwarded email instant message even unintentionally there is no way for that information to allow another user to bypass the security or learn enough from the information to spy on the meeting room or other online collaborative session contents and proceedings.

An exemplary case would be for an online virtual meeting room owner to hide and password protect or lock the meeting room using features already available in some virtual meeting services. Since the room owner never tells anyone the password to the room even users who directly address the room will not be able to join because of the lock or password. However when conditions change and the room owner needs to pull other users into this locked room e.g. the room owner needs to invite a user into the room a private and unique URL is generated for each specific user invitee which will only work for each specific user. Even for an internal threat actor there would be no way for the invited user to discover or share any information which would enable a different user to join the on line meeting room since the password is only known by the room owner.

Furthermore embodiments according to the present invention have a method for the URL to be short lived or only used once so that if a URL is not accessed in a pre configured amount of time or used one time during the allowed period the URL becomes invalid for future attempts to access it. A user trying to attend via the spoiled or already consumed URL at a later time will be denied access to the on line meeting room. This automatic time out has advantages over ACL s since ACLs have to be manually managed.

Known approaches and solutions referenced in the foregoing paragraphs introduce user complexity performance obstacles and barriers for on line meeting management and attendance in persistent online meetings. So again embodiments of the present invention provide a non ACL based method which enables an easier way to invite a user to an online room or other collaborative session such that the person invited cannot compromise the system by sending the online room information to unauthorized people.

While the solution described herein may seem ideal and easy to understand there are technical barriers which make implementation non trivial. So the present disclosure also includes details that describe these methods and how the system works. Specifically embodiments of the present invention show how the system can create unique and secure personal URLs and then authorize access to only the person accessing the on line meeting via the secure personal URL.

In today s on line meeting screens a user will enter a meeting name or identifying code and a meeting password. Embodiments of the present invention will ease the burden of requiring a meeting password that needs to be propagated to online meeting attendees as well as provide a secure way to prevent the online meeting information from being shared.

First as illustrated in a Session Owner will establish an online collaborative session through an interface to an online collaborative session server such as using a web browser to access a management function of the session server to create a meeting room by providing a room name and an access password. The password would only be required to be known by the Session Owner.

Next the Session Owner will invite a user to the collaborative session such as making an invitation to a virtual meeting room. When a Session Owner wants to invite a user into his or her room they may enter the invitee s system identifier e.g. the invited user s e mail address telephone number employee number etc. into a form or component of the session server that would take the room information and invitee information and call an application programming interface API on the online collaboration session server to generate a specific URL for the invited user.

Subsequently a new component executed by the collaborative session server will generate a secure personal URL for invitee. Referring to upon receiving the information from the session owner the session server would 

This process is repeated for each invitee thereby creating a secure personal URL for each of the invitees. The session server may then begin to monitor each of the secure personal URL s for usage expiration and spoilage.

Referring again to the Session Owner can propagate the secure personal URLs spURLs to each of the invitees via e mail instant message verbally or via another method. This process of generating storing and propagating secure personal URL s would be repeated for each of the additional attendee s or invitees.

In order for an invited user to access the online collaborative session such as to log into an online meeting room the collaborative session server would first require the invitee to authenticate himself or herself into the session server system such as through a log in web page served from the online collaborative session server. But this does not by itself allow the user access to the collaborative resource yet.

Referring finally to after each of the invitees has successfully completed the entry process of using the spURL a virtual conference between the users and with the collaborative resource is completed such as conducting an online meeting an online presentation collaborative editing of a document etc.

The preceding paragraphs have set forth example logical processes according to the present invention which when coupled with processing hardware embody systems according to the present invention and which when coupled with tangible computer readable memory devices embody computer program products according to the related invention.

Regarding computers for executing the logical processes set forth herein it will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art that a variety of computers are suitable and will become suitable as memory processing and communications capacities of computers and portable devices increases. In such embodiments the operative invention includes the combination of the programmable computing platform and the programs together. In other embodiments some or all of the logical processes may be committed to dedicated or specialized electronic circuitry such as Application Specific Integrated Circuits or programmable logic devices.

The present invention may be realized for many different processors used in many different computing platforms. illustrates a generalized computing platform such as common and well known computing platforms such as Personal Computers web servers such as an IBM iSeries server and portable devices such as personal digital assistants and smart phones running a popular operating systems such as Microsoft Windows or IBM AIX Palm OS Microsoft Windows Mobile UNIX LINUX Google Android Apple iPhone iOS and others may be employed to execute one or more application programs to accomplish the computerized methods described herein. Whereas these computing platforms and operating systems are well known an openly described in any number of textbooks websites and public open specifications and recommendations diagrams and further details of these computing systems in general without the customized logical processes of the present invention are readily available to those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Many such computing platforms but not all allow for the addition of or installation of application programs which provide specific logical functionality and which allow the computing platform to be specialized in certain manners to perform certain jobs thus rendering the computing platform into a specialized machine. In some closed architectures this functionality is provided by the manufacturer and may not be modifiable by the end user.

The hardware portion of a computing platform typically includes one or more processors accompanied by sometimes specialized co processors or accelerators such as graphics accelerators and by suitable computer readable memory devices RAM ROM disk drives removable memory cards etc. . Depending on the computing platform one or more network interfaces may be provided as well as specialty interfaces for specific applications. If the computing platform is intended to interact with human users it is provided with one or more user interface devices such as display s keyboards pointing devices speakers etc. And each computing platform requires one or more power supplies battery AC mains solar etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof unless specifically stated otherwise.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

It should also be recognized by those skilled in the art that certain embodiments utilizing a microprocessor executing a logical process may also be realized through customized electronic circuitry performing the same logical process es .

It will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art that the foregoing example embodiments do not define the extent or scope of the present invention but instead are provided as illustrations of how to make and use at least one embodiment of the invention. The following claims define the extent and scope of at least one invention disclosed herein.

