---

title: Social recommendations for business process platform
abstract: Methods, systems, apparatus, and computer programs encoded on computer storage medium, for integrating business data and social data in execution of a business process, implementations including actions of receiving user input, the user input being associated with a task of the business process and being received during interaction with an application, determining that a social query is triggered, querying business data based on a business query, the business query being generated based on the user input, querying social networking data based on the social query, the social query being generated at least partially based on the user input, receiving business data in response to the business query, receiving social data in response to the social query, and providing at least a portion of the business data and at least a portion of the social data for display to a user that provided the user input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361653&OS=09361653&RS=09361653
owner: SAP SE
number: 09361653
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130116
---
Business data and social data are often provided to customers and businesses separately. For example when a user is interacting with a website to purchase a product business data can be provided to the user such as the pricing and availability of the product. However the business data provided alone can be lacking a social context which is becoming more valuable to consumers and businesses alike.

Implementations of the present disclosure include computer implemented methods for integrating business data and social data in execution of a business process. Implementations include actions of receiving user input the user input being associated with a task of the business process and being received during interaction with an application determining that a social query is triggered querying business data based on a business query the business query being generated based on the user input querying social networking data based on the social query the social query being generated at least partially based on the user input receiving business data in response to the business query receiving social data in response to the social query and providing at least a portion of the business data and at least a portion of the social data for display to a user that provided the user input.

In some implementations determining that a social query is triggered includes determining that a user interface component through which the user input is received is associated with the social query.

In some implementations determining that a user interface component through which the user input is received is associated with the social query includes referencing an association table the association table associating social queries to user interface components.

In some implementations actions further include in response to determining that a social query is triggered receiving a social query model the social query model defining one or more terms of the social query and populating at least one term of the one or more terms with a value provided from the user input.

In some implementations actions further include populating at least one term of the one or more terms with a value provided from the business data.

In some implementations actions further include receiving a business query model the business query model defining one or more terms of the business query and populating at least one term of the one or more terms with a value provided from the user input.

In some implementations actions further include providing one or more graphical user interface GUIs for display to the user each GUI of the one or more GUIs being associated with a task of the business process and comprising at least one user interface component through which the user input is received.

In some implementations the business query is generated based on a business query model that is defined during a design time the business query model defining one or more terms of the business query that can be populated with values based on the user input.

In some implementations the social query is generated based on a social query model that is defined during a design time the social query model defining one or more terms of the social query that can be populated with values based on the user input.

In some implementations the business data is provided from a business data source associated with a back end system of an enterprise the enterprise providing the business process.

In some implementations the social networking data is provided from one or more social networking services each social networking service being independent of an enterprise that provides the business process.

In some implementations querying social networking data based on the social query includes transmitting the social query to each of the one or more social networking services through respective application programming interfaces APIs .

It is appreciated that methods in accordance with the present disclosure can include any combination of the aspects and features described herein. That is methods in accordance with the present disclosure are not limited to the combinations of aspects and features specifically described herein but also include any combination of the aspects and features provided.

The present disclosure also provides a computer readable storage medium coupled to one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations in accordance with implementations of the methods provided herein.

The present disclosure further provides a system for implementing the methods provided herein. The system includes one or more processors and a computer readable storage medium coupled to the one or more processors having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations in accordance with implementations of the methods provided herein.

The details of one or more implementations of the present disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Implementations of the present disclosure are generally directed to integrating business data and social data. In some implementations a process is performed based on user input. In some examples the process can be a business process that is performed based on user input received through a graphical user interface GUI . For example a user can interact with a website and can provide user input to the website. In response to the user input business data can be retrieved and can be presented to the user. For example the user can be researching flight information using the website for an upcoming travel arrangement. The business data can include a listing of available flights for a particular destination and departure return dates. In accordance with implementations of the present disclosure and also in response to the user input social data can be retrieved and can be presented to the user. For example the user can participate in one or more social networking services. The social data can be retrieved from the one or more social networking services and can correspond to the business data. For example the social data can correspond to the listing of available flights obtained e.g. the business data and can include a listing of contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have also flown on one or more of the flights.

In some implementations a user of the client computing device can interact with an application. In some examples the application is a web based application e.g. hosted at the enterprise back end that is based on an underlying process e.g. a business process as discussed in further detail herein. In some examples the client computing device can display one or more GUIs through which the user can provide input to the application and can receive output from the application. In accordance with implementations of the present disclosure the computing device receives user input from the user and provides the user input to the recommendation engine . The user input can include any appropriate transaction between the client computing device and the enterprise backend . For example the transaction can include user interaction with to the GUI presented on the client computing device . In some examples the user input can include a user query.

The recommendation engine receives the user input from the client computing device . In response and in accordance with implementations of the present disclosure the recommendation engine analyzes the user input and generates a business query to query the enterprise back end through the interface for business related data. For example the business query can include a request for business data associated with a particular business process as discussed in further detail herein. Further the recommendation engine determines whether a social query is associated with the user input. For example the recommendation engine determines whether a social query is to be triggered based on the user input. In some examples the association between the social query and the user input can be predefined. In some examples the association between the social query and the user input can be defined at design time of the application e.g. by a developer . In some examples the association between the social query and the user input can be stored in a table in a database e.g. an association table such as the social query repository .

If the recommendation engine determines that a social query is associated with the user input the recommendation engine retrieves the social query from the social query repository . In some examples the recommendation engine determines that the social query is associated with the user input via the association table. In some examples the social query is provided as a model that is processed by the recommendation engine . For example the recommendation engine populates fields e.g. search terms of the social query with at least a portion of the user input. In some examples more than one social queries can be associated with the user input.

In some examples the recommendation engine further determines whether a social query is associated with the business query in addition to or in lieu of determining whether a social query is associated with the user input . In some examples the recommendation engine populates the social query with at least a portion of business data that is retrieved based on the business query. In some examples the recommendation engine queries a business data source e.g. the enterprise back end using the business query and a social data source e.g. one or more social networking services using the social query in parallel.

In some examples the recommendation engine provides the social query to one or more social networking services using respective social connectors . In some examples the social connectors provide the social query to respective application programming interfaces APIs associated with the one or more social networking services. Although two social network APIs and respective social connectors are depicted in the example of it is appreciated that any number of social network APIs and social connectors can be implemented e.g. the social query can be provided to any number of social networking services .

In some implementations the enterprise back end processes the business query to provide business data back to the recommendation engine through the interface . In some implementations each social networking service processes the social query to provide social data back to the recommendation engine through the respective social network API and social connector 

In some implementations the social query repository stores the social queries. In some examples the social query repository stores the social queries as XML models. In some examples the XML models can define the business model the business action the social model the social query and the processing instructions.

In some implementations the social connectors receive the social query from the recommendation engine and retrieve social data from the one or more social networking services through the social network APIs based on the social query. The social connectors provide the social data to the recommendation engine for processing. In some examples the social connectors receive a populated social query and provide social data received from the one or more social networking services based on the populated social query.

In some examples the interface receives the business query from the recommendation engine and provides the business query to the enterprise back end . In some examples the interface formats e.g. translates the business query to an appropriate protocol for communication with the enterprise back end . In some examples the interface communicates with the enterprise back end using a protocol e.g. representational state transfer REST simple object access protocol SOAP .

In some examples the enterprise back end receives the business query from the interface and identifies business data from business related processes or other business databases in view of the business query. The business data is based on the business query. The enterprise back end provides the business data to the recommendation engine for processing.

A user interface component is selected . In some examples the user interface component includes one of a plurality of user interface components that can be provided in a GUI displayed to a user. For example a GUI can include one or more user interface components through which a user can provide user input. A trigger status of the selected user interface component is assigned . In some examples the trigger status indicates whether a social query is to be triggered in response to user input received through the selected user interface component. For example when the trigger status is provided as on or set or other positive association user input received through the selected user interface component triggers a social query. When the trigger status is provided as off or not set or other non association and or negative association user input received through the selected user interface component does not trigger a social query.

If a positive trigger status is associated with the selected user interface component the social query that is to be triggered is defined . In some examples the social query can be defined to include one or more terms. In some examples at least one term of the one or more terms can be assigned a value based on user input that is input to the selected user interface component during run time of the application as discussed in further detail below. In some examples at least one term of the one or more terms can be assigned a value based on business data that is retrieved in response to the user input during run time of the application as discussed in further detail below. Computer language programming code for the social query is generated . In some examples the code is executed to perform social data retrieval in response to user input to the selected user interface component during run time of the application.

User input is received . For example the recommendation engine receives the user input from the client computing device . In some examples the user input can be provided through any appropriate transaction between the client computing device and the enterprise back end e.g. as the user interacts with a web application hosted by the enterprise back end .

It is determined whether a social query is to be triggered . For example the recommendation engine determines whether the user input e.g. received at is received through a user interface component associated with a social query e.g. based on an association table . As an example and as discussed above a user interface component can have a trigger status of on or set or other positive association and a social query that is to be issued in response to the user input being received through the user interface component can be defined. If it is determined that a social query is to be triggered a social query is provided . For example the recommendation engine retrieves the social query from the social query database and populates the social query. In some examples the recommendation engine populates terms of the social query with values provided from the user input received. In some examples the recommendation engine provides the social query to the appropriate social connectors .

The business query is provided . For example the recommendation engine provides the business query to the enterprise back end . Specifically the recommendation engine analyzes the user input and based on the user input generates a business query to provide to the enterprise computing system to retrieve business related data. In some examples the recommendation engine populates terms of the business query with values provided from the user input received.

The business data and or the social data is received . For example the recommendation engine receives the business data based on the business query from the enterprise back end . In some examples and is a social query was triggered the recommendation further receives social data based on the social query from the social connectors . The business data and or the social data is provided . For example the recommendation engine processes the received social data e.g. from the social connectors and the received business data e.g. from the enterprise computing device . The recommendation engine can provide the processed data e.g. the processed business data and or processed social data to the client computing device for display to the user . In some implementations processing of the business data and the social data by the recommendation engine can include filtering sorting and or joining the business data and the social data.

In some implementations the social query can be provided after the business data is received in response to the business query. In some examples one or more terms of the social query can be populated based on the business data.

Implementations of the present disclosure are discussed in further detail below with reference to an example context. The example context is provided as an example business process including a user booking a flight with an airline. More particularly a web based application is provided and includes GUIs for receiving user input that is to be processed in the business process to provide business data and user data to the user. It is appreciated however that implementations of the present disclosure are readily applicable in other contexts.

A task can include the user logging in e.g. providing credentials to a log in enabled website. For example logging in by the user e.g. the user can include providing a username and password using a log in page e.g. GUI of the website. When providing the log in information to the website the user may be presented with a home page not shown .

A task can include displaying destinations available to the user. For example the user provides user input using the website to display destinations that are associated with the airline e.g. selecting a link to display destinations . In response to such user input the recommendation engine generates a business query based on the user input and provides the business query to the enterprise back end using the interface . The enterprise back end provides business data to the recommendation engine using the interface . For example the business query can include a query of available destinations provided by the airline and the business data can include the listing of destinations provided by the airline . The recommendation engine provides the listing of destinations to the client computing device such that the listing of destinations is displayed on a GUI.

In the depicted example the recommendation engine determines that the user input e.g. to display destinations that are associated with the airline is associated with a social query. For example the associated social query can include a query of socially connected friends to the user that have flown with the airline. The recommendation engine receives the associated social query from the social query repository and provides the social query to the social connectors . The social connectors query one or more social networking services to retrieve social data e.g. using the social network APIs . For example the social data can include a listing of contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have flown with the airline.

With continued reference to the GUI further includes a social data portion . The social data portion provides graphical representations of the social data received from the one or more social networking services. For example in response to the user input associated with a display of destinations that are associated with the airline e.g. task the social data portion includes a display of contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have flown with the airline e.g. to the destinations of the listing . In this manner the business data e.g. the listing of destinations is joined with the social data e.g. the listing of socially connected contacts .

Referring again to a task can include selection of a destination from the provided listing of destinations obtained in task . For example the user provides user input using the website to select a destination e.g. Paris . In response to such user input the recommendation engine determines that the user input e.g. the selection of the destination is associated with a social query. For example the associated social query can include a query of contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have flown to the selected destination e.g. Paris .

The recommendation engine receives the associated social query from the social query repository and queries the one or more social networking services using the social connectors . The social connectors receive social data from the social networking services e.g. through the social networking APIs . For example the social data can include contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have flown to the selected destination.

For example illustrates an updated version of the GUI displayed on the client computing device . In the depicted example the business data portion includes an updated representation of the business data in response to the user selection of the destination e.g. Paris and further includes fields for input relating to departing data and returning date. Additionally the social data portion includes representations of the contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have flown to the selected destination e.g. Paris .

Referring again to a task can include selection of depart return dates available for the selected destination obtained in task . For example the user provides user input using the website to select depart return dates. In response to such user input the recommendation engine generates a business query based on the user input e.g. the selection of depart return dates and provides the business query to the enterprise back end . The enterprise back end provides business data to the recommendation engine in response to the business query. For example the business query can include a query of available flights for the selected destination e.g. Paris and for the selected depart return dates. In some examples the business data can include a listing of available flights e.g. flight numbers . The recommendation engine provides the listing of available flights to the client computing device such that the destinations are displayed on the GUI. For example the GUI can include an available flights page not shown .

In this example the recommendation engine determines that the user input e.g. selection of depart return dates is associated with a social query. For example the associated social query can include a query of contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have flown to the selected destination e.g. Paris on one or more of the available flights e.g. the flight numbers . In some examples the associated social query is populated with the received business data e.g. the flight numbers .

The recommendation engine retrieves the social query from the social query repository and queries the one or more social networking services based on the social query. The social connectors receive social data from the social networking services e.g. through the social network APIs . For example the social data can include the contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have flown to the selected destination e.g. Paris on one or more of the available flights e.g. the flight numbers . Thus the social data e.g. the listing of contacts that are socially connected to the user that have flown on one or more of the available flights is filtered by the business data e.g. the listing of available flights .

Referring again to a task can include selection of specific flight s available from the listing of available flights obtained in task . For example the user provides user input using the website to select specific flight s e.g. a departing flight and a returning flight . In response to such user input the recommendation engine determines that the user input e.g. selection of the one or more flights is associated with a social query. For example the associated social query can include a query of contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have flown on the selected flight s . In some examples the associated social query is populated with the business data e.g. the flight numbers of the selected flight s .

The recommendation engine receives the social query from the social query repository and queries the one or more social networking services. The social connectors receive social data from the social networking services. For example the social data can include the contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have flown on the selected flight s .

For example illustrates an updated version of the GUI displayed on the client computing device . In this example the business data portion includes a representation of the business data received from the enterprise back end by the recommendation engine . For example in response to the user input associated with a selection of specific flight s e.g. task the business data portion includes a listing of available flights e.g. flight numbers . Additionally the social data portion includes representations of the contacts that are socially connected to the user and that have flown on the selected flight s . In some examples the social data can include digital content provided by the contacts . For example the social data can include textual posts posted by a contact to a respective social networking service e.g. a post commenting on the particular flight and or other appropriate digital content e.g. a digital image taken while on the particular flight .

Referring again to a task can include booking of the selected flight s obtained in task . For example the enterprise back end books the flights s such that the selected flight s are associated with the user e.g. after financial transactions and confirmation between the user and the enterprise back end . The booking of the flight s e.g. flight reservation for the user can be stored in a database.

The user interface module represents a particular user interface component of a GUI that can be presented to a user during run time of an application. For example the user interface module can be representative of one of a plurality of user interface components that can be displayed to the user in the GUI and that can receive defined user input. In the depicted example the user input can include an instruction type of Filter and a value associated with a selection from the GetFlights data. The user interface module can be connected to the social query module and the business action module as depicted in the example of . For example if the user interface module is connected to the business action module a business query is to be triggered in response to receipt of user input through the user interface component that is represented by the user interface module. As another example if the user interface module is connected to the social query module a social query is to be triggered in response to receipt of user input through the user interface component that is represented by the user interface module.

In some examples the business action module defines the business action that is to be performed based on input received through the user interface component e.g. issuing a business query . In the depicted example the business action module can include the business query based on the GetFlights user input such that Collection Flight data is returned. The business action module is further connected to the business model module . The business model module indicates the terms that are to be included in the associated business query which terms can be populated with values based on the user input received during run time of the application. In the depicted example the business model module includes Flight including parameters Carrier ID Flight ID and Flight Date that can be populated to provide the business query that is used to query the business data.

The social query module identifies a data source that can be queried based on a social query. In the depicted example the social query module defines a social query for retrieving booked flight information from socially connected contacts. For example data can be obtained through a Collections Book return type and for example from a social data source e.g. Social Network Open Graph that is located at a particular URL e.g. graph.exampl.com . The social query module is further connected to the social model module . The social model module indicates the terms that are to be included in the associated social query which terms can be populated with values based on the user input received during run time of the application. In the depicted example the social model module includes Book having the parameters Booking ID Flight ID and Passenger Name that can be populated based on the user input and or received business data to provide the social query that is used to query the social data.

Referring now to a schematic diagram of an example computing system is provided. The system can be used for the operations described in association with the implementations described herein. For example the system may be included in any or all of the server components discussed herein. The system includes a processor a memory a storage device and an input output device . Each of the components and are interconnected using a system bus . The processor is capable of processing instructions for execution within the system . In one implementation the processor is a single threaded processor. In another implementation the processor is a multi threaded processor. The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the input output device .

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit. The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device. The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. Elements of a computer can include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. A computer can also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

A number of implementations of the present disclosure have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

