---

title: Selecting supplemental content for inclusion in a search results page
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments that involve selecting supplemental content to be included in a search results page. A search query is received. A set of search results is generated by executing a search based at least in part on the search query. A subset of supplemental content providers is selected based at least in part on respective relevancies of the supplemental content providers to the search query. A search results page is generated. The search results page is configured to present supplemental content from the subset of supplemental content providers in association with the set of search results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367627&OS=09367627&RS=09367627
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09367627
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131203
---
Search engines allow users to search indexes of various types of items such as products offered for sale social networking profiles web pages images videos audio tracks and or other types of items. To search a user provides a search query which may be a string of terms perhaps with Boolean or other connectors. The search engine receives the search query and executes a search against the index of items. In response to the search a result set is returned. The search engine may then employ a relevance algorithm to rank the results. The relevance algorithm may take into account a variety of factors such as closeness of match to the search query location of matching terms in the item popularity of the items and so on. The results or a subset of results are then presented to the user in ranked order within a network page.

The present disclosure relates to selecting supplemental content for inclusion in a search results page. When a user executes a search query with a search engine a search results page is returned. The search results constitute the primary content within this search results page. However it may be desirable to include supplemental content in addition to the search results. The supplemental content may drive revenues for the operator of the search engine as much as or even more than the actual search results themselves. The supplemental content may be relevant to the search query such that the user may benefit from viewing the supplemental content in the search page in lieu of or in addition to search results. The supplemental content may also serve the function of filling otherwise empty area on the user s display.

Various forms of supplemental content may include for example advertisements for external network sites sponsored search result listings recommendations for similar products advertisements for merchants local to the user and or other supplemental content. The various forms of supplemental content may be provided by different systems which may be controlled by different entities. The different systems that provide the supplemental content in response to the search query may employ vastly different relevance algorithms. Further the different sources of supplemental content may have differing relevancies to the search query.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are configured to select supplemental content from multiple sources for inclusion in the search results page. In doing so the differing relevancies of the sources may be taken into account as well as the differing algorithms used by each in producing ranked results. Accordingly a subset of the sources may be selected while a subset of the sources may be excluded. Moreover immediate monetary value may be weighed with downstream business value in order to select sources and supplemental content. In some scenarios different layouts for the search results page may be employed to feature the supplemental content from the selected sources.

Turning now to shown is an example data flow diagram illustrating the process of generating a search results page in accordance with various embodiments. In the data flow diagram there are several sources for content to be included in the search results page a search engine and a plurality of supplemental content providers . . . N. This is not intended to be exhaustive and content may be obtained from additional sources in order to generate the search results page . Various logic is executed in order to generate the search results page provider selection logic content selection logic page generation logic and or other logic.

When a search query is submitted search results are obtained from the search engine . Also in this example supplemental content and are obtained from the supplemental content providers and . To obtain the supplemental content the search query and or other information may be supplied to the supplemental content providers and . The content selection logic then obtains content from the supplemental content providers . In some cases the content selection logic may obtain supplemental content only from supplemental content providers that have been selected by the provider selection logic . Sets of content may be obtained from each of the selected supplemental content providers and these sets of content may be in a ranked order according to relevance as determined by a respective algorithm for each supplemental content provider . The content selection logic selects supplemental content and from these ranked sets of content according to another relevance algorithm that blends or weights the respective relevancies taking into account relevancy to the search query relevancy to the user immediate monetary value downstream business value and or other factors.

The provider selection logic selects a subset of the supplemental content providers based at least in part on mutual compatibility of their content relevancy to the search query relevancy to the user who initiated the search query immediate monetary value downstream business value and or other factors. In some cases the selection decision by the provider selection logic may trigger further processing by the content selection logic .

The search results the supplemental content and the supplemental content are provided to the page generation logic which generates the search results page . In various embodiments the layout of the search results page may depend on the supplemental content and that is selected. For example hyper relevant supplemental content may be rendered above the search results or in a pop up pop over dialog while less relevant supplemental content may be rendered alongside the search results on a subsequent screen of the search results page below the fold and or in other locations. In the following discussion a further description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes a computing environment and one or more clients which are in data communication with each other via a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks cable networks satellite networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing environment may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the computing environment may employ a plurality of computing devices that may be arranged for example in one or more server banks computer banks or other arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For example the computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together may comprise a hosted or cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the computing environment may correspond to an elastic computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources may vary over time.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing environment according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing environment . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the computing environment for example include a search engine a plurality of supplemental content providers a compatibility rule generation application a page generation application a network page server application and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The search engine is executed to perform a search upon an item database using a search query and return a set of search results . The search results may be ranked according to relevance date popularity price size and or other factors. The search engine may also select the search results based at least in part on user profile characteristics e.g. user purchase history user query history user browse history user demographic data etc. client characteristics e.g. client location device type browser type etc. and or other data. Non limiting examples of searches that may be performed via the search engine may include product searches service searches image searches music searches video searches a data search within a hosted computing resource and or other searches.

The supplemental content providers are configured to provide supplemental content responsive to the search query and potentially user profile characteristics e.g. user purchase history user query history user browse history user demographic data etc. client characteristics e.g. client location device type browser type etc. and or other data. The supplemental content providers may serve up different types of supplemental content . In one embodiment the search engine and the supplemental content providers may be operated by different business units of an entity. As a non limiting example where the search results correspond to products offered for online ordering from a merchant the supplemental content served by the supplemental content providers may include products offered by brick and mortar stores near the user products offered for online ordering from other merchants advertisements for other goods and services and so on. In one embodiment the supplemental content providers correspond to separate network services that may be operated on distinct computing devices within the computing environment . In some cases one or more of the supplemental content providers may be an external service operated by an external entity. In various embodiments each of the supplemental content providers may provide a ranked set of supplemental content where the supplemental content is ranked according to a distinct relevance algorithm associated with the particular supplemental content provider .

The compatibility rule generation application is executed to generate compatibility rules that determine whether different types of supplemental content served by different supplemental content providers are compatible or incompatible. For example it may be determined that supplemental content containing customer reviews of products are incompatible with supplemental content containing advertisements to sign up with a preferred customer program. It may be the case that a first supplemental content provider is incompatible with a second supplemental content provider . Alternatively it may be that a first supplemental content provider is incompatible with a combination of a second supplemental content provider with a third supplemental content provider .

The compatibility rule generation application may for example examine supplemental content selection history for multiple users to empirically determine which supplemental content providers result in click throughs revenue and or other metrics. That is to say it may be empirically determined that when supplemental content from two particular supplemental content providers are rendered in the same search results page supplemental content from one of the two supplemental content providers is never or seldom selected. In another example it may be that when the supplemental content from the two particular supplemental content providers are rendered in the same search results page none of the supplemental content is selected or is seldom selected. Such supplemental content providers may be deemed incompatible. Incompatibility may be defined in a strong manner such as being incompatible for being included on the same search results page or in a weaker manner such as being incompatible for being included within the same screen of a search results page . In the latter case it may be that supplemental content from incompatible supplemental content providers may be compatible for presentation within the same search results page but not to be presented in the same screen or side by side within a certain distance for certain content items and so on .

The page generation application is executed to assemble the search results pages and or other network pages. To this end the page generation application may include for example the provider selection logic the content selection logic the page generation logic and or other logic. The page generation application may use a relevance ranking approach that differs from that of the supplemental content providers . For example the page generation application may be capable of assigning relevance scores to supplemental content across different supplemental content providers that may use different relevance ranking approaches. The page generation application may take in to account immediate monetary value as well as downstream business value in assigning relevance scores. The page generation application may generate a page layout for the search results page based upon the relevant supplemental content . In doing so the page generation application may select a particular page layout and or assign content to the particular page layout based upon the relevant supplemental content .

The network page server application is executed to receive search query requests from clients and to respond with the search results pages and or other pages. The network page server application may serve information via hypertext transfer protocol HTTP simple object access protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST and or other protocols. The network page server application may comprise a commercially available HTTP server such as for example Apache HTTP Server Apache Tomcat Microsoft Internet Information Services IIS and so on.

The data stored in the data store includes for example item data supplemental content data supplemental content selection history network page data compatibility rules relevance configuration data user profile data layout configuration data and potentially other data. The item data may store information relating to items that are searchable by the search engine . Such items may include products services web pages social network profiles music videos and so on. In various scenarios the item data may store data such as title description keywords price quantity customer reviews and or other data.

The supplemental content data corresponds to the different forms of supplemental content provided by the supplemental content providers . Such supplemental content may include advertising related items customer reviews local offers and or other forms of supplemental content . In one embodiment the supplemental content data associated with different supplemental content providers may be maintained in separate data stores .

The supplemental content selection history includes selection or browse history to indicate click throughs for supplemental content on search results pages . The supplemental content selection history may include context to indicate the other supplemental content present on a page when particular supplemental content was selected where the supplemental content was situated in a display layout sales conversions and or other information for assessing the efficacy of the presentations of the supplemental content .

The network page data may include various data employed in generating search results pages and or other network pages. The network page data may include hypertext markup language HTML extensible markup language XML cascading style sheets CSS images text audio video templates and or other data. The compatibility rules define whether supplemental content from different supplemental content providers are compatible or are incompatible. The compatibility rules may be manually created or may be dynamically generated by the compatibility rule generation application .

The relevance configuration data includes configuration data for the various relevance ranking algorithms or approaches employed by the page generation application and the various supplemental content providers . For example the relevance configuration data may indicate which factors are to be considered in generating relevance rankings and constants used in blending or weighting the factors. The user profile data may include profile characteristics for users. Such profile characteristics may include product preferences browse history order history demographic information location information and or other information. The layout configuration data configures the selection or generation of page layouts by the page generation application .

The client is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The client may include a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD displays gas plasma based flat panel displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays electrophoretic ink E ink displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc.

The client may be configured to execute various applications such as a client application and or other applications. The client application may be executed in a client for example to access network content served up by the computing environment and or other servers thereby rendering a user interface on the display . To this end the client application may comprise for example a browser a dedicated application etc. and the user interface may comprise a network page an application screen etc. The client may be configured to execute applications beyond the client application such as for example email applications social networking applications word processors spreadsheets and or other applications.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin a user at a client uses a client application to send a search query via the network to the network page server application . The network page server application invokes the page generation application to generate a search results page in response to the search query. Additionally identification of the user and or the client may be provided to the page generation application in order to personalize the search results page for the user.

The page generation application uses the search engine to execute a search based at least in part on the search query user profile characteristics and or other information. In addition the page generation application obtains supplemental content from selected supplemental content providers . The supplemental content providers may be selected based at least in part on a compatibility rule that defines whether supplemental content from a first supplemental content provider is permitted to be rendered in association with supplemental content from a second supplemental content provider .

The page generation application then generates a search results page configured to present supplemental content from the selected supplemental content providers and at least a portion of the search results . The page generation application generates a display layout for the search results page based upon the search results and or the supplemental content that is selected. For example the layout for the supplemental content may be generated based at least in part on respective relevance scores for the supplemental content using a blended or weighted relevance approach that takes into account different relevance approaches used by the different supplemental content providers . New relevance scores may be generated for the supplemental content by weighting relevance scores provided by the respective relevance approaches based at least in part on the relevancies of the supplemental content providers to the search query.

As a non limiting example suppose that the relevance scores from a first supplemental content provider correlate to the immediate monetary value from the content when converted. It may be the case that the immediate monetary value is rather negligible but the downstream business value of promoting the business associated with the first supplemental content provider is substantial. Thus in the blended relevance approach the relevance scores may be weighted by a factor that greatly increases the relevance scores. Suppose that a first result from a first provider has an immediate monetary value of 0.01 while a second result from a second provider has an immediate monetary value of 5.00. After weighting suppose that the first result has a blended value of 10.00 and the second result has a blended value of 6.00. The page generation application may therefore select the first result for inclusion in the search results page in place of or with a higher prominence than the second result. Additional factors may also weigh in to the blended relevance approach. For example if the second result were hyper relevant to the search query the second result may achieve a higher blended relevance score than the first result.

The blended relevance scores may determine the layout of the search results page as well as the position of supplemental content within the layout. The search results page is provided to the network page server application and data encoding the search results page is then returned to the client via the network . In some embodiments at least a portion of the content of the search results page may be provided asynchronously using technologies such as asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX . In some cases an infinite scrolling layout may be used where additional search results and supplemental content may be provided responsive to a user scrolling to a new screen of the search results page .

Referring next to shown is one example of a user interface rendered by client application executing in a client in the networked environment according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In particular depicts a network page layout shown within the user interface . The network page layout is divided into a plurality of slots including a header slot a bottom left slot a left navigation slot a top navigation slot and a footer slot . In one embodiment the network page layout comprises at least one table in HTML. In another embodiment the network page layout comprises logical divisions in HTML and or XML for example by using DIV elements and CSS. In various embodiments at least some of the slots may be aligned relative to one another in rows and or columns.

The network page layout is merely one example of how a network page may be divided into a number of slots corresponding to display regions. The page generation application may select or generate the network page layout based at least in part on the layout configuration data . For example the slots may be selected for displaying search results from the search engine while the header slot and the bottom left slot may be used for displaying supplemental content . It may be that supplemental content included in the header slot may be of a greater relevance than the supplemental content included in the bottom left slot based on the relative prominence of the header slot as compared to the bottom left slot .

Furthermore although the slots of the network page layout are indicated with a certain size relative to the user interface it is understood that the slots may be fixed in size or may change in size based on other attributes e.g. glue elements constraints etc. and or what features are assigned to each slot . For example when no features are assigned to a particular slot that slot may collapse in area and occupy no display region of the user interface . However in another embodiment the particular slot may comprise a display region having a fixed or proportional size while including no features.

Moving on to shown is another example of a user interface rendered by a client application executed in a client FIG. in the networked environment according to various embodiments. The user interface comprises a network page layout that corresponds to a search results page . Moreover the network page layout corresponds to the network page layout with the various slots being populated with content.

In this example the slot s have been populated with search results for a search query Ultra Car Racing 3D executed within a Video Games department. In addition the header slot and the bottom left slot have been populated with supplemental content provided by two different supplemental content providers . The supplemental content in the header slot pertains to a local offer for discounted tickets to an event while the supplemental content in the bottom left slot pertains to a product offered for sale online. Although the supplemental content shown in the header slot and the bottom left slot pertain respectively to a single unit of content it is understood that the supplemental content assigned to a particular slot or location may be nested or may include a series of content units. The page generation logic may be configured to re rank or rearrange such nested content.

The supplemental content in the header slot is more relevant to the search query than the supplemental content in the bottom left slot . However the supplemental content in the header slot may result in a lesser immediate monetary value upon conversion. That is to say the operator of the network site may make less money via the local offer than a product offered for online ordering. Nonetheless the local offer may have a greater downstream business value e.g. building a local offers business that may outweigh the lower immediate monetary value as determined by a relevance ranking approach that blends the relevance as reported by the supplemental content providers . Thus ultimately the local offers content is given a more prominent position in the network page layout than the online product offer content.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the compatibility rule generation application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the compatibility rule generation application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of elements of a method implemented in the computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the compatibility rule generation application receives supplemental content selection history for a plurality of users. The supplemental content selection history may be filtered or requested for a certain time period e.g. the previous month the previous year a previous season and so on. In some cases the supplemental content selection history may be filtered for a specific user or group of users meeting a certain profile characteristics e.g. all users who have purchased a certain item all users who reside in a certain geographic area and so on.

In box using the received supplemental content selection history the compatibility rule generation application determines click throughs conversions sales etc. for supplemental content from a particular supplemental content provider that is presented in association with supplemental content from another supplemental content provider . In box for each source of supplemental content the compatibility rule generation application determines the impact of presentation with other sources of supplemental content . For example content from source A when presented with content from source B may result in far fewer sales i.e. fewer beyond a threshold than when content from source A is presented with content from source C.

In box the compatibility rule generation application generates a compatibility rule for each source of supplemental content . Each compatibility rule may indicate the supplemental content providers with which each supplemental content provider is compatible or incompatible. The compatibility rules may be applied universally during specific time periods or for users meeting specific criteria e.g. according to user profile data . Thereafter the portion of the compatibility rule generation application ends.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the page generation application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the page generation application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of elements of a method implemented in the computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the page generation application receives a search query. In box the page generation application receives a ranked set of search results from a search engine . In doing so the page generation application executes a search by the search engine using the search query and possibly other data. The search results are ranked based at least in part on a relevance ranking approach employed by the search engine .

In box the page generation application receives a ranked set of supplemental content from one or more supplemental content providers . Each of these ranked sets may be ranked according to different relevance approaches. In box the page generation application selects a subset of supplemental content providers . For example the supplemental content providers may be selected based at least in part on compatibility rules relevance to the search query immediate monetary value downstream business value and or other factors.

In box the page generation application generates blended relevance scores for the supplemental content using a different relevance approach. The different relevance approach may take into account immediate monetary value downstream business value user personalization relevance to the search query and or other factors. In box the page generation application selects a subset of the supplemental content based at least in part on the blended relevance scores.

In box the page generation application determines a display layout for the search results page using the layout configuration data the selected subset of supplemental content characteristics of the client and of the display and or other factors. In box the page generation application generates the search results page with the search results and the selected subset of supplemental content . In some cases the search results page may be generated based at least in part on the compatibility rules so as to ensure that incompatible content is not presented on the same screen within a certain distance adjacent or according to other compatibility criteria. Thereafter the portion of the page generation application ends.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing environment according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing environment includes one or more computing devices . Each computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end each computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the search engine the supplemental content providers the compatibility rule generation application the page generation application the network page server application and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the search engine the supplemental content providers the compatibility rule generation application the page generation application the network page server application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the compatibility rule generation application and the page generation application . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the search engine the supplemental content providers the compatibility rule generation application the page generation application and the network page server application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

Further any logic or application described herein including the search engine the supplemental content providers the compatibility rule generation application the page generation application and the network page server application may be implemented and structured in a variety of ways. For example one or more applications described may be implemented as modules or components of a single application. Further one or more applications described herein may be executed in shared or separate computing devices or a combination thereof. For example a plurality of the applications described herein may execute in the same computing device or in multiple computing devices in the same computing environment . Additionally it is understood that terms such as application service system engine module and so on may be interchangeable and are not intended to be limiting.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to each be present.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

