---

title: Solid electrolytic capacitor
abstract: A silver paste layer constituting a collector layer in a solid electrolytic capacitor includes first silver particles having a peak particle size of 150 nm or less, second silver particles having a peak particle size of 500 nm or more, inorganic particles composed of material different from silver, and resin material. The inorganic particles are included at a volume ratio of 15% or more and 50% or less with respect to the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218911&OS=09218911&RS=09218911
owner: Panasonic Intellectual Property Management Co., Ltd.
number: 09218911
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130906
---
The present invention relates to a solid electrolytic capacitor. In particular the present invention relates to a silver paste layer constituting a collector layer formed on the solid electrolyte layer.

A solid electrolytic capacitor has a small size a large capacity and a low equivalent series resistance ESR . Thus the solid electrolytic capacitor is used at the periphery of the CPU in a personal computer. The solid electrolytic capacitor as described above has a capacitor element and a pair of external terminals. The capacitor element has a base body composed of conductive material a dielectric film formed on this base body a solid electrolyte layer formed on this dielectric film and a collector layer formed on this solid electrolyte layer. The pair of external terminals is electrically connected to the base body and the collector layer respectively.

The collector layer has a carbon layer formed on the solid electrolyte layer and a silver paste layer formed on this carbon layer. The silver paste layer is formed by kneading silver particles having a peak size of about 1 m epoxy resin and curing agent for example. In recent years approaches are suggested to reduce the contact resistance between the silver paste layer and the carbon layer to thereby reduce the ESR of the electrolytic capacitor. As one of the approaches mixing the silver paste layer with small silver particles having a peak particle diameter of 1 to 100 nm to improve the contact with the carbon layer is proposed e.g. Patent Literature 1 .

The silver paste layer including small silver particles provides a reduced contact resistance with the carbon layer. Thus the silver paste layer can have a reduced thickness with the same amount of silver. However the silver paste layer having a reduced thickness causes a shorter oxygen permeation path. Thus the solid electrolyte layer is increasingly oxidized and deteriorated with time passage or thermally oxidized thus resulting in an increased ESR.

The present invention provides a solid electrolytic capacitor having a further reduced ESR. The solid electrolytic capacitor of the present invention has a capacitor element a first external terminal and a second external terminal. The capacitor element has a base body composed of conductive material a dielectric film formed on the base body a solid electrolyte layer formed on the dielectric film and a collector layer formed on the solid electrolyte layer including at least a silver paste layer. The first external terminal is electrically connected to the base body and the second external terminal is electrically connected to the collector layer respectively. The silver paste layer includes first silver particles having a peak particle size diameter of 150 nm or less second silver particles having a peak particle size of 500 nm or greater inorganic particles composed of material different from silver and resin material. The inorganic particles are included at a volume ratio of 15 or more and 50 or less with respect to the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles. By mixing the silver paste layer with the inorganic particles at such a ratio the silver paste layer can have an increased thickness at a low cost and an oxygen permeation path can have a longer length. As a result the solid electrolytic capacitor can have a further reduced ESR. In other words according to the present invention the solid electrolyte layer can be suppressed from being oxidized and the solid electrolytic capacitor can have a further reduced ESR while using the first silver particles having a small size to reduce the contact resistance between the silver paste layer and the carbon layer. The silver paste layer also may be formed to include first silver particles having a peak particle size of 150 nm or less obtained by surrounding the inorganic particles as a core with silver the second silver particles and the resin material both mentioned above.

Solid electrolytic capacitor has capacitor elements anode terminal as a first external terminal and cathode terminal as a second external terminal. As shown in capacitor element has base body composed of conductive material dielectric film solid electrolyte layer and collector layer . Dielectric film is formed on base body . Solid electrolyte layer is formed on dielectric film . Collector layer is formed on solid electrolyte layer . Collector layer includes at least silver paste layer . Anode terminal is electrically connected to base body . Cathode terminal is electrically connected to collector layer .

Base body and dielectric film form an anode foil. On the anode foil insulating section is formed so as to press dielectric film . Insulating section is provided for the separation between anode section and a cathode formation section not shown and is composed of insulating resin or an insulating tape for example. On dielectric film of the cathode formation section solid electrolyte layer composed of conductive polymer and collector layer are formed. Collector layer is composed of carbon layer as a lower layer and silver paste layer formed on carbon layer . Solid electrolyte layer and collector layer constitute the cathode of capacitor element .

In the example shown in capacitor elements are laminated. Anode sections are respectively connected to anode terminal by a welding technique such as a laser welding and a resistance welding. Collector layer is connected to cathode terminal by conductive adhesive material.

Anode terminal and cathode terminal as well as capacitor elements are covered by exterior package composed of insulating resin in an integrated manner so that anode terminal and cathode terminal are partially exposed at the outer surface respectively. When a part of anode terminal and cathode terminal exposed from exterior package is bent to the bottom face along exterior package anode terminal and cathode terminal are formed at the bottom face. In this manner surface mounted solid electrolytic capacitor is formed.

Base body is an aluminum foil whose surface is roughened by etching for example so that the surface includes many holes. Base body may have a flat surface however it is preferable that base body has a roughened surface to have an increased capacity. Instead of etching the surface of base body also can be roughened by vapor deposition aerosol or the like so as to laminate fine particles of valve metal on base body .

Dielectric film is formed by anodically oxidizing base body for example. In a case that base body is an aluminum foil dielectric film is composed of aluminum oxide. Instead of the anode oxidation dielectric film also may be formed by vapor deposition plating or the like. In this case in addition to aluminum oxide dielectric film may be constituted by oxide or nitride e.g. titanium nitride or titanium oxide . Although the anode foil made of aluminum is described valve metal material such as titanium tantalum or the alloy material thereof also may be used.

Silver paste layer includes first silver particles second silver particles inorganic particles composed of material different from silver and resin material. The first silver particles have a peak particle size diameter of 150 nm or less. The second silver particles have a peak particle size of 500 nm or greater. The resin material is composed of epoxy resin and curing agent for example. The silver paste layer is mainly composed of the silver components constituting the first silver particles and the second silver particles. The inorganic particles may be for example silica glass alumina or graphite.

The silver paste material as described above is diluted by diluent such as terpineol so as to be coatable. Then the resultant silver paste is coated on solid electrolyte layer and is cured at about 200 C. for 10 minutes thereby forming silver paste layer . Carbon layer provided under silver paste layer may be omitted.

The following section will describe the effect of silver paste layer in solid electrolytic capacitor . Silver paste layer includes the inorganic particles. By mixing the low cost inorganic particles in silver paste layer as described above the thickness of silver paste layer can be maintained at a low cost and the length of the oxygen permeation path can be elongated. As a result solid electrolytic capacitor can have a further reduced ESR.

From the viewpoint as described above it is necessary that the inorganic particles be included at a volume ratio of 15 or more and 50 or less with respect to the total of the first and second silver particles. If the inorganic particles are included in a smaller amount the above described effect is suppressed from being achieved. If the volume ratio exceeds 50 the conducting network of the silver components is influenced and silver paste layer itself has an increased resistivity. As a result the ESR is increased.

The inorganic particles may be formed by any material that can endure a reflow temperature including insulating and conductive materials. The inorganic particles also may be organic material if the above conditions are satisfied. However inorganic particles are more easily obtained in reality. Since organic material has a linear expansion coefficient higher than that of inorganic material there is a risk in which organic material causes the silver particles to peel from one another in silver paste layer when heated.

When surface mounted solid electrolytic capacitor is mounted on a circuit board not shown solid electrolytic capacitor is subjected to a high temperature of about 260 C. in the reflow step. During the reflow step the inorganic particles which have a higher melting point than that of resin of organic material can retain the shapes in silver paste layer . Thus silver paste layer can be suppressed from being deformed even during the reflow step oxygen permeation can be suppressed and the oxidation of solid electrolyte layer due to the heat can be suppressed. As a result reliability in view of the ESR can have improved.

It is preferable that carbon layer and silver paste layer have a reduced energy barrier therebetween to thereby reduce the resistance at the interface therebetween. Thus the inorganic particles are preferably conducting material. Graphite constituting carbon layer is preferable in particular.

As described above the first silver particles have a peak particle size diameter of 150 nm or less and the second silver particles have a peak particle size of 500 nm or greater. By using the two types of silver particles having different peak particle sizes as described above solid electrolytic capacitor can have a reduced ESR and a reduced cost. Specifically the first silver particles having a smaller size can reduce the contact resistance with carbon layer and the second silver particle having a larger size can reduce the cost and the specific resistance of silver paste layer .

The first silver particles preferably have a peak particle size of 10 nm or more. Silver particle may be manufactured by a physical method of pulverizing bulk metal or a chemical manufacturing method of forming metal atoms out of ions or complexes as a precursor to aggregate the metal atoms. The chemical manufacturing method is more suitable to prepare fine silver particles. However to prepare the first silver particles having a peak particle size smaller than 10 nm such a size is practically difficult to be formed even by the chemical manufacturing method and requires a high production cost. Thus the first silver particles preferably have a peak particle size of 10 nm or more.

The second silver particles preferably have a peak particle size of 5 m or less. The peak particle exceeding 5 m causes a larger gap between the particles. This means that the first silver particles in a higher amount are required in order to fill such gaps to connect the second fine particles thus resulting in a higher cost.

The inorganic particles have a peak particle size of about 50 nm or greater and about 500 nm or less for example. The inorganic particles preferably have a smaller peak particle size than that of the second silver particles because the specific resistance of silver paste layer can be maintained at a low level.

The weight ratio between the total of the silver components of the first silver particles and the second silver particles and epoxy resin is 90 10 for example. In other words the silver components are included at a weight ratio of 90 wt of the total of the silver components and the resin components. As described above the silver components are preferably included at a weight ratio of 70 wt or more and 95 wt or less with respect to the total of the silver components and the resin components because the specific resistance of silver paste layer can be maintained at a low level.

When assuming that the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles is 100 wt it is preferable that the first silver particles are included at a ratio of 10 wt or more and 60 wt or less. The reason is that the contact resistance with carbon layer can be maintained at a low level and the specific resistance of silver paste layer can be maintained at a low level.

The following section will describe the result of the experiment on the volume ratio of the inorganic particles to the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles. In this experiment the first silver particles having a peak particle size of 100 nm and the second silver particles having a peak particle size of 3000 nm are used. The first silver particles are included at a ratio of 50 wt with respect to the total of the silver components. In other words the second silver particles are included at a ratio of 50 wt in the total of the silver components. Graphite having a peak particle size of 500 nm is also included as the inorganic particles. The silver components are included at a weight ratio of 90 wt with respect to the total of the silver components and the resin components of epoxy resin.

In the vertical axis shows the relative values of the ESR characteristics of the samples based on the initial ESR of a sample having the smallest silver adhesion amount a sample having the thinnest silver paste layer in the comparison example. The horizontal axis shows the relative values of the silver adhesion amounts of the respective samples based on the silver adhesion amount of a sample having the smallest silver adhesion amount a sample having the thinnest silver paste layer in the comparison example.

As can be seen from in the case of the comparison example the ESR before the heat resistance test shows no change even when the silver adhesion amount i.e. the thickness of the silver paste layer changes and the ESR is maintained at a low value. The ESR after the heat resistance test on the other hand shows a larger change as the silver adhesion amount is smaller. In contrast with this in the case of the exemplary example the ESR characteristic shows substantially no change depending on a change in the silver adhesion amount both before and after the heat resistance test.

As can be seen from the above in the case of the exemplary example in which the inorganic particles of graphite are added the time degradation of the ESR characteristic can be suppressed even when the silver adhesion amount is reduced. The reason is that the inorganic particles mixed in silver paste layer can increase the thickness of silver paste layer without using high cost silver material. This can consequently provide a longer oxygen permeation path and can suppress the oxidation degradation of solid electrolyte layer . As a result the ESR can be suppressed from increasing as time passes. Furthermore the use of the first silver particles can reduce the contact resistance between silver paste layer and carbon layer even when inorganic particles having a lower electric conductivity than that of silver are included.

Next the following section will describe an appropriate volume ratio of inorganic particles of graphite with respect to the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles. Table 1 shows different volume ratios of the inorganic particles with respect to the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles. Based on these different volume ratios shown in Table 1 pastes are prepared using terpineol and coated and dried on glass plates to prepare test pieces. The test pieces are measured with regard to the specific resistance and the contact resistance based on the measurement method as described below.

With regard to the specific resistance the surface resistance is measured and calculated by pushing the probe of a resistivity meter LORESTA GP MCP T600 made by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation onto the surface of the silver paste.

The contact resistance is measured by firstly pushing resistance measurement terminals to the formed silver paste layer with a predetermined gap therebetween and the resistance total resistance is measure. By plotting the total resistances for the respective gaps to calculate a proportional relationship thereamong the point having a zero gap can be estimated as a contact resistance. The total resistance is measured by a digital multi meter 34401A made by Agilent . The gap distance is measured by a digital microscope KH 3000 made by HIROX .

After subjecting these test pieces to air at 125 C. for 50 to 280 hours the contact resistance and the specific resistance are similarly measured. The results thereof are also shown in Table 1.

As can be seen from the results shown in Table 1 when the inorganic particles are included at a volume ratio of 15 to 40 with respect to the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles the specific resistance is lower than 25 cm and the bulk resistance of the silver paste layer is maintained at a low level. When the inorganic particles are included at a volume ratio of 50 with respect to the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles the specific resistance slightly increases to 35.1 cm. On the other hand the contact resistance is maintained at a low level of about 0.2 when the inorganic particles are included at a volume ratio of 15 to 50 with respect to the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles. These tendencies are also observed after the storage at a high temperature.

The ESR characteristic of capacitor element is more influenced by the resistance of the interface with solid electrolyte layer or carbon layer than by the bulk resistance of silver paste layer . Thus it is preferable that the inorganic particles are included at a volume ratio of 15 or more and 50 or less with respect to the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles and silver paste layer has an increased thickness. By the configuration as described above capacitor element can presumably be suppressed as in the exemplary example shown in from having a deteriorated ESR characteristic. When the inorganic particles are included at a volume ratio of 15 or more and 40 or less with respect to the total of the first silver particles and the second silver particles it is considered that the specific resistance also can be reduced and thus a lower ESR can be obtained.

Solid electrolytic capacitor shown in to is configured so that base body is composed of aluminum and solid electrolyte layer is composed of conductive polymer. Alternatively silver paste layer can be applied to solid electrolytic capacitor of tantalum as shown in . is a cross sectional view illustrating another solid electrolytic capacitor according to the embodiment of the present invention. In solid electrolytic capacitor anode is composed of sintered tantalum and has dielectric film thereon. Solid electrolyte layer and collector layer are formed and laminated on dielectric film in this order. Solid electrolyte layer is composed of manganese dioxide or conductive polymer. Collector layer can be silver paste layer in .

The inorganic particles also may be a core of the first silver particles. In other words the inorganic particles on the order of nanometer as a core may be surrounded by deposited or layered silver to thereby form a silver layer thereby constituting the first silver particles. The silver paste layer in this case also has the above configuration namely silver paste layer includes the first silver particles having a peak particle size of 10 nm or more and 150 nm or less the second silver particles having a peak particle size of 500 nm or more and 5 m or less and the resin material. The first silver particles and the second silver particles are included at a ratio of 70 wt or more as main components in the silver paste layer.

This configuration can suppress an increased cost even when the first silver particles of an increased volume are included. Thus the oxygen permeation path can have a longer path while reducing the contact resistance between silver paste layer and the lower layer carbon layer thus achieving a low ESR characteristic. In particular the inorganic particles surrounded by the silver layer can achieve a low ESR characteristic even when the inorganic particles are included in an amount exceeding 20 volume ratio with respect to the total volume of the first silver particles and the second silver particles.

The silver paste layer according to the present invention is useful for a solid electrolytic capacitor having a low ESR characteristic.

