---

title: Enhanced call control for directing a content path over multiple connections
abstract: Aspects for enhancing call control for directing a content path over multiple connections may include a method which includes establishing a first connection to a destination to use as a content path, receiving information from the destination for establishing an alternative connection, establishing as the alternative connection a background connection to the destination based on the information received, evaluating whether the background connection is preferable to the first connection for use as the content path, and switching the content path to the background connection when the background connection is preferable. Another method may include establishing a first connection as a content path and a background connection simultaneously to a destination for exchanging call traffic representing the same content, evaluating whether the background connection is preferable to the first connection for use as the content path, and switching the content path to the background connection when the background connection is preferable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363165&OS=09363165&RS=09363165
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09363165
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130311
---
Aspects of this disclosure generally relate to call control for network communications and in particular provide enhanced call control functionality which directs a content path over multiple connections to improve the exchange of call traffic.

Current wireless communications devices may provide a variety of interactive communication services over different air interfaces. Interactive communication which may include two or more parties exchanging information in a conversational manner may typically be carried over call traffic. Call traffic may broadly comprise control signaling packets voice packets video packets and or data packets which may include image text audio and or animation data . The air interfaces may include different cellular protocols such as 2G 3G 4G etc. Wireless Wide Area Networks such as WiMAX and or various Wireless Local Area Networks such as Wi Fi Bluetooth etc. Over these air interfaces call traffic may be transported utilizing different call modes such as Circuit Switched CS or Packet Switched PS e.g. Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP call modes. While many mobile terminals today have support for multiple radios current call control is typically limited in selecting at most one air interface and one call mode e.g. CS or VoIP for a given interactive communication.

Traditional CS calls are typically limited to providing voice service whereas PS calls such as VoIP can enhance call experience by leveraging multimedia content. However establishing a VoIP call can proceed only when both the parties are in VoIP compatible coverage. Additionally the calling party and the called party can be using various VoIP service providers which may not be associated with the cellular network provider.

With current wireless devices the user may be burdened with manually selecting the call mode e.g. CS or VoIP and further selecting one of various over the top VoIP service providers. Additionally the user may be further tasked with manually maintaining multiple address books of their contact s destination information for each VoIP service.

Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for controlling a content path over multiple connections. For example a mobile terminal instead of the user may control the selection of a content path over the multiple connections which may simultaneously carry call traffic.

In one embodiment a method for controlling a content path over multiple connections is provided. The method may include establishing a first connection to a destination to use as a content path and receiving information from the destination for establishing an alternative connection. The method may further include establishing as the alternative connection a background connection to the destination based on the information received evaluating whether the background connection is preferable to the first connection for use as the content path and switching the content path to the background connection when the background connection is preferable.

In another embodiment a mobile terminal which controls a content path over multiple connections is described. The mobile terminal may include at least one transceiver a modem coupled to the at least one transceiver and a memory coupled to the modem. The memory may store executable instructions and data which can cause the modem to establish a first connection to a destination to use as a content path receive information from the destination for establishing an alternative connection establish as the alternative connection a background connection to the destination based on the information received evaluate whether the background connection is preferable to the first connection for use as the content path and switch the content path to the background connection when the background connection is preferable.

Another embodiment may include a method for controlling a content path over multiple connections. The method may include establishing a first connection and a background connection simultaneously to a destination for simultaneously exchanging call traffic representing the same content wherein the first connection is used as a content path evaluating whether the background connection is preferable to the first connection for use as the content path and switching the content path to the background connection when the background connection is preferable.

Another embodiment may include a mobile terminal which controls a content path over multiple connections. The mobile terminal may include at least one transceiver a modem coupled to the at least one transceiver and a memory coupled to the modem. The memory stores executable instructions and data which may cause the modem to establish a first connection and a background connection simultaneously to a destination for simultaneously exchanging call traffic representing the same content wherein the first connection is used as a content path evaluate whether the background connection is preferable to the first connection for use as the content path and switch the content path to the background connection when the background connection is preferable.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

Aspects of the disclosure are directed to enhanced call control where a mobile terminal instead of the user may select from multiple connections which may simultaneously carry call traffic to establish a content path for user communications. As used herein a connection may refer to a set of links through one or more networks which may be used exchange call traffic between at least two devices. As used herein these devices may be broadly defined as mobile terminals. The connection may further include one or more terminal links to provide interface s between the mobile terminal and the network s . In some embodiments the terminal links may be realized as various air interfaces compatible with the mobile terminals. In various aspects the simultaneous connections may be evaluated to select a single best performing connection as a content path to improve communications between mobile terminals. As used herein a content path may be defined as a connection being used to exchange call traffic which represents the content being consumed by users associated with the mobile terminals. In other words the content path is the connection being used for communications between the users of the mobile terminals. In other aspects multiple connections using different terminal links may be maintained to provide robust failover service in the event one or more terminal links has intermittent reliability.

The IP network may further provide connectivity to one or more over the top OTT service providers . Examples of OTT service providers may include VoIP service providers such as Skype Google Talk Apple FaceTime etc. An optional server configured to provide OTT service provider information to the mobile terminals may be connected to the cellular network and or the IP network where the dashed connector indicates that the inclusion of server is optional .

While the exemplary networking environment embodies the terminal links as air interfaces it should be appreciated that one or more of these terminal links may instead be realized as a wired connection to its respective network.

Further referring to in one exemplary scenario where enhanced call control may be employed a user associated with mobile terminal may first establish voice call with a destination mobile terminal utilizing a connection over the cellular network as the content path. The content path may be initiated by having the user place a call in a normal fashion by dialing the number associated with the destination mobile terminal using the keypad of mobile terminal . The process of setting up the content path may start over air interface between mobile terminal and base station where the air interface may operate in the CS mode. The cellular network may receive a request from the base station to establish a CS mode call and then determine that the base station is the most appropriate base station to send a page to alert the destination mobile terminal of an incoming call. Upon accepting the page a first connection may be established as the content path over the air interface between mobile terminal and destination mobile terminal . Upon establishing the content path over the first connection call traffic may be exchanged between the two mobile terminals over air interfaces and in the CS mode.

After the content path between the mobile terminals is established over the first connection the mobile terminal may query the destination mobile terminal to determine if it has the capability to be contacted over an alternative connection. In response the destination mobile terminal may provide capability information back to the mobile terminal regarding its capabilities for communicating over alternative connections which may include information regarding various call modes different terminal interfaces e.g. alternative air interfaces access information to various OTT services associated with the destination terminal etc. This information may generally referred to herein as capability tables. However it should be noted that this information is in no way restricted to being organized and or stored in a tabular form. In embodiment shown in the alternative connection may use a different call mode such as the PS call mode which may be appropriate for IP networks. However in alternative embodiments the first connection and the alternative connection may use the same call modes. The destination mobile terminal may utilize air interface provided by wireless access point to connect with the IP network . These links in conjunction with the air interface provided by wireless access point to mobile terminal may be used to establish an alternative connection for call traffic between mobile terminals . As noted above the alternative connection may transfer call traffic using a PS call mode such as VoIP.

The capability table provided by the destination terminal may include the identification of various Over The Top OTT provider s that have a predefined association with the user of destination mobile terminal e.g. a Skype account which can be used to establish the alternative connection. The capability table may include the identification of the user and or the IP address of the destination mobile terminal used by the identified OTT provider s and any other information that may be used by the mobile terminal to establish the alternative connection over the IP network using air interface provided by the wireless access point . In another aspect the information regarding the OTT providers may be provided by a server which can send the information in its entirety to the requesting mobile terminal over the first connection through the cellular network or in an alternative aspect the server may supplement the information provided by the destination mobile terminal .

The alternative connection over the IP network may exchange call traffic between the mobile terminals in a simultaneous manner with the first connection over cellular network . However the alternative connection can operate as a background connection where the exchanged call traffic is not being used for the content path. Accordingly for aspects presented herein the mobile terminals may simultaneously exchange call traffic associated with the user s call over both the first connection and the background connection. The mobile terminal may analyze both connections and make a determination as to which connection is preferable for exchanging communications. This preference may be based upon which connection provides the highest call quality. The call quality may be determined using known metrics based on packet errors latency signal to noise ratios etc. which measure the quality of the entire connection inclusive of the air interfaces the base stations and the cellular network. Other criteria may be evaluated to determine whether a connection is preferable. In an embodiment approaches for determining a preferable connection may be described for example in ASSOCIATING A VoIP PROVIDER WITH A SET OF VOIP NETWORKS AS A PREFERRED OR DEFAULT VOIP PROVIDER by Krishnan et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 794 547 filed on Mar. 11 2013 assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein.

If the background connection is in some way preferable to the first connection the mobile terminal may switch the content path to the background connection. So in the example shown in content will be exchanged between mobile terminals and using the VoIP call mode. The current first connection using the CS call mode is no longer in the content path and effectively exchanges call traffic in the background. In some embodiments once the content path is switched the first connection may be terminated. In other embodiments the first connection may be maintained as a redundant fail over channel which may be switched over automatically if the content path on the background connection is interrupted or otherwise fails some quality criteria.

As will be explained in more detail below the switching of content paths may be performed without any user intervention and may also disconnect the new background connection upon completing a switch. The mobile terminal can make choices among different connections based on associations stored in a capability table within the destination mobile terminal . The mobile terminal can access the capability table over the cellular network and or the IP network from the destination mobile terminal where it may be remotely stored therein. In alternate embodiments the capability table may reside in the server which may be accessed by the mobile terminal over the cellular network and or the IP network. Alternatively the capability table may be stored in the mobile terminal i.e. the origin of the connection and be updated when required.

The capability tables may contain associations between identifiers used in different call modes among the different connections. For example the capability tables may contain associations between standard phone numbers and VoIP IDs among different contacts in a user s address book. Additionally these capability tables may further contain rules as to when different connections may be selected by the mobile terminal. Such determinations may be based for example on desired call quality network congestion among the different air interfaces bandwidth constraints call rates among different providers etc. Accordingly instead of having a user select a connection the call control functionality can be enhanced by having the mobile terminal select from multiple connections simultaneously.

Clearly the networking environment shown in has been simplified for ease of explanation and may include more than two mobile terminals and two networks which may be of different types and greater complexity than what is exemplified. For example instead of the two base stations the network may also include any number of Wide Area Network Wireless Access Points WAN WAPs which may be used for wireless voice and or data communication. The WAN WAPs may be part of wireless wide area network WWAN which may include cellular base stations at known locations and or other wide area wireless systems such as for example WiMAX e.g. 802.16 . The WWAN may include other known network components which are not shown in for simplicity. Typically each WAN WAPs within the WWAN may operate from fixed positions and provide network coverage over large metropolitan and or regional areas.

Further referring to the wireless access points may instead be any type or number of Local Area Network Wireless Access Points LAN WAPs that can be used for wireless voice and or data communication. The LAN WAPs can be part of a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN which may operate in buildings and perform communications over smaller geographic regions than a WWAN. Such LAN WAPs may be part of for example WiFi networks 802.11x cellular piconets femtocells Bluetooth Networks etc.

The enhanced call control techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication networks such as a wide area wireless network WWAN a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and so on. The term network and system may be used interchangeably. A WWAN may be a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA network a Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA network an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA network a Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA network a WiMax IEEE 802.16 and so on. A CDMA network may implement one or more radio access technologies RATs such as cdma2000 Wideband CDMA W CDMA LTE and so on. Cdma2000 includes IS 95 IS 2000 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA network may implement Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS or some other RAT. GSM and W CDMA are described in documents from a consortium named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Cdma2000 is described in documents from a consortium named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . 3GPP and 3GPP2 documents are publicly available. A WLAN may be an IEEE 802.11x network and a WPAN may be a Bluetooth network an IEEE 802.15x or some other type of network. The techniques may also be used for any combination of WWAN WLAN and or WPAN.

In the embodiment shown in for mobile terminal the first connection may include the air interface which can be established over a WWAN operating in CS mode. The background connection for mobile terminal may utilize the air interface which may include the use of a WLAN operating in PS mode. In other embodiments both the first connection and the background connection may be established over the WWAN where the first connection may operate in CS mode and the background connection may operate in PS mode.

In another embodiment not shown in the first connection and the background connection to a destination may be made in parallel to simultaneously exchange call traffic representing the same content i.e. both are technically acting as content paths but only one is being paid attention to by mobile terminals and . In this embodiment the first connection may be used as an official content path. The mobile terminal may evaluate whether the background connection is preferable to the first connection for use as the official content path. If the background connection is preferable the official content path may be switched to the background connection s content path. The first connection may be subsequently terminated after the official content path is switched.

For the sake of simplicity the various features and functions illustrated in the block diagram of may be linked using a common connection which is meant to represent that these various features and functions are operatively coupled together. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other connections mechanisms features functions or the like may be provided and adapted as necessary to operatively couple and configure an actual portable wireless device. Further it is also recognized that one or more of the features or functions illustrated in the example of may be further subdivided or two or more of the features or functions illustrated in may be combined.

Referring to RF transceiver 1 and RF transceiver 2 may be connected to one or more antenna s . RF transceiver 1 may comprise suitable devices hardware and or software for communicating with and or detecting signals to from any type of WAN WAP e.g. base stations and or directly with other suitable wireless devices within a network. In one aspect RF transceiver 1 may comprise a CDMA and or LTE communication system suitable for communicating with a CDMA and or LTE network of wireless base stations however in other aspects RF transceiver 1 may also be compatible another type of cellular telephony network such as for example TDMA or GSM. Additionally any other type of wide area wireless networking technologies may be used for example WiMax 802.16 etc. The mobile terminal may also include RF transceiver 2 that may be connected to one or more antennas . RF transceiver 2 comprises suitable devices hardware and or software for communicating with and or detecting signals to from LAN WAPs and or directly with other wireless devices within a local area network. In one aspect RF transceiver 2 may comprise a WiFi 802.11x communication system suitable for communicating with one or more wireless access points e.g. wireless access points however in other aspects RF transceiver 2 comprise another type of local area network personal area network etc. e.g. Bluetooth . Additionally any other type of wireless networking technologies may be used for example Ultra Wide Band wireless USB etc. It should be understood that embodiments may include a mobile terminal that can exploit signals from a plurality of LAN WAPs simultaneously a plurality of WAN WAPs simultaneously or any combination of the two simultaneously. The specific type of access point base station being utilized by the mobile terminal may depend upon the environment of operation. Moreover the mobile terminal may dynamically select between the various types of access points base stations to perform the enhanced call control functions.

RF transceiver 1 and RF transceiver 2 may be connected to one or more modem s . The modem s may perform functionality for extracting information from signals received from the RF transceivers or embed information in base band signals for subsequent up conversion and transmission by the RF transceivers and antenna s . The modem s may employ known modulation demodulation coding decoding and various other signal communications processing techniques. In alternative embodiments the modem s may also have the ability to communicate over hard wired networks using wired network transceiver . Such networks may include Ethernet for communicating over TCP IP based networks.

The modem s may be further coupled to the memory which may store instructions in the form of software and or firmware to configure the modem s to perform the functionality mentioned above. Moreover in order to facilitate the enhanced call control functionality so it is transparent to the user the modem s of a terminal participating in the call may be further configured to perform enhanced call control as will be discussed in more detail below.

The memory may also be coupled to the processor s which may utilize stored software and or firmware to perform various processing functions including the execution of the operating system and the applications residing on the mobile terminal . The processor s may include one or more microprocessors microcontrollers and or digital signal processors that provide processing functions as well as other calculation and control functionality. As shown in the memory may external to the modem and the processor and further can be shared between these two devices. For example a section of the memory may be devoted to processor memory and a separate section of memory may be devoted to modem memory . In alternative embodiments the memories may be external and separate to the modem and the processor s and or can be on board the modem s and or the processor s e.g. within the same IC packages or any combination thereof. The details of software firmware functionality stored in processor memory and modem memory will be discussed in more detail below.

In processor memory a number of software modules and data tables may be stored for use by processor in order to manage and coordinate the overall operations of the mobile terminal . As illustrated in processor memory may include and or otherwise receive application s Application Programming Interfaces APIs and an operating system . The application s may be at least one process running on the processor at the upper layer of the software architecture such as the application level and provide additional functionality to the mobile terminal . The application s may include for example various VoIP applications to assist the mobile device in transferring call traffic in the PS mode over IP network . The application s may include for example programs such as Skype Google Talk and or FaceTime. The processor memory may further include APIs which may be at a lower layer than the application s to provide application s structured access to functionality provided by the operating system . The operating system is at a layer lower than the APIs and thus can interact efficiently with various components of the hardware of the mobile terminal such as the user interface hardware .

In modem memory in addition to the signal communication processing functionality described above the modem may utilize the call control module and capability table to perform enhanced call control. This functionality may be enabled within both the modem s of both mobile terminals participating in the call. As will be described in more detail below communications regarding the connections capability of each mobile terminal participating in the call may be exchanged between the modem s of each mobile terminal and thus may not actively involve the processor s and the upper layers of the mobile terminal such as the operating system or the application s . This approach may eliminate cumbersome manual selection in call setup while improving the reliability of communications during call setup. This approach also provides the flexibility to switch the CS call to a VoIP call or to incrementally upgrade content from baseline voice to multimedia. Lastly the mobile terminal also can automatically establish associations between address book contacts and different VoIP IDs using the capability table. The capability table may include VoIP IDs such that the caller need only select the receiver in their address book to setup a VoIP call.

In more detail the modem memory may include a connection management module a connection quality determination module and connection capability determination module . The connection management module may be used to establish switch and tear down connections which are associated with various connections. For example the connection management module may permit the mobile terminal to establish a first connection to the destination mobile terminal for communications over a first terminal link such as air interface . Additionally the connection management module may establish a background connection to the destination mobile terminal over an alternative terminal link such as air interface based on the information provided by the connection capability determination module . The connection management module may further switch the content path from the first connection over to the background connection. The connection quality determination module may determine quality metrics of both the background connection and the first connection so that the mobile terminal may determine which connection is preferable for maintaining the content path. In one embodiment the connection capability determination module may receive information from the destination mobile terminal over the initially established first connection to establish a background connection using the air interface . The connection capability determination module may work in conjunction with the capability table which may also be stored in modem memory . The capability table can be thought of as a directory for various services and can associate various connection capabilities e.g. what CS and PS connections and or associate identifications of users and their contacts among different communication services across different connections and call modes e.g. associate phone numbers and VoIP IDs . This feature allows the mobile terminal to automatically switch between appropriate connections applications communication services and or call modes so that the user does not have to manually perform this operation.

One should appreciate that the organization of the memory contents as shown in is merely exemplary and as such the functionality of the modules and or data structures may be combined separated and or be structured in different ways depending upon the implementation of the mobile terminal . Moreover while the software modules shown in are illustrated in the example as being contained in memory it is recognized that in certain implementations such procedures may be provided for or otherwise operatively arranged using other or additional mechanisms. For example all or part of call control module may reside in firmware. Additionally while in this example various modules in call control module are illustrated as being separate features stored in memory various procedures may alternatively be combined together with functionality performed in dedicated hardware.

Further referring to the mobile terminal may include a user interface which provides any suitable interface systems such as a microphone speaker keypad and display or touchscreen that allows user interaction with the mobile terminal . The microphone speaker provides for voice communication services using the wide area network associated with for example RF transceiver 1 and or RF transceiver 2 . The keypad comprises any suitable buttons for user input and may be optional when a touchscreen is present. The display comprises any suitable display such as for example a backlit LCD display and can further include a touch screen display for additional user input modes.

As used herein mobile terminal may be any portable or movable device or machine that is configurable to acquire wireless signals transmitted from and transmit wireless signals to one or more wireless communication devices or networks. As shown in the mobile terminal is representative of such a portable wireless device. Thus by way of example but not limitation mobile terminal may include a radio device a cellular telephone device a computing device a personal communication system PCS device or other like movable wireless communication equipped device appliance or machine. Also mobile terminal is intended to include all devices including wireless communication devices computers laptops etc. which are capable of communication with a server such as via Ethernet WiFi or other network and regardless of whether satellite signal reception assistance data reception and or position related processing occurs at the device at a server or at another device associated with the network. Any operable combination of the above are also considered a mobile terminal. As used herein the term wireless device may refer to any type of wireless communication device which may transfer information over a network. The wireless device may be any cellular mobile terminal personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device laptop personal digital assistant or any other suitable mobile terminal capable performing the enhanced call control functionality.

1. A user at the mobile terminal may dial a phone number or select a Universal Resource Indicator URI to establish a first connection for placing a CS mode call. The dialer communicates the destination information to the modem 1 inside mobile terminal .

2. Given the destination information Modem 1 may establish a CS mode call over a first connection with the destination mobile terminal to be used as a content path.

3. The enhanced call control framework in modem 1 may then query modem 2 on the mobile terminal for its capability table to determine its capabilities. Such capabilities may include for example VoIP capability and ability to support concurrent CS mode and VoIP calls. The query may be made via in band signaling in the first connection. Alternatively if modem 1 has previously received modem 2 s capability table the query made be made via out of band signaling over one of the connections and or addresses listed in the previous capability table of modem 2 .

5. Reciprocally modem 2 may query modem 1 for its capability table via in band or out of band signaling.

7. The enhanced call control process executing on modem 1 may choose and coordinate with a dialer specific to an over the top VoIP service provider A to set up a VoIP call e.g. OTT call setup with mobile terminal . The modem 1 may select from a number of VoIP service providers A B etc. .

8. Modem 1 may successfully establish a background connection which may be used for a concurrent VoIP call with the destination mobile terminal .

9. Following the establishment of the VoIP call with the mobile terminal the content path may be switched from the first connection to the background connection and in some embodiments the first connection may be terminated. If first connection is not terminated it may be kept active as a background connection.

1. A user at the mobile terminal may dial a phone number or select a Universal Resource Indicator URI to establish a first connection for placing a CS mode call. The dialer communicates the destination information to the modem inside mobile terminal .

2. Given the destination information the modem may establish a content path over a first connection with the destination mobile terminal .

3. The enhanced call control framework in the modem may then query server for capability table 1 for destination mobile terminal . Such capabilities may include for example VoIP capability and ability to support concurrent CS mode and VoIP calls.

4. The server may respond to the query from modem by providing the capability table 1 of the destination mobile terminal to modem .

7. The enhanced call control process may choose and coordinate with a dialer specific to an over the top VoIP service provider A to set up VoIP call with the destination mobile terminal . The modem may select from a number of VoIP service providers A B etc. .

8. The modem successfully establishes a connection which may be used for a concurrent VoIP call with the destination mobile terminal .

9. Following establishment of the VoIP call with the mobile terminal the modem may switch the content path from the first connection to the background connection and in some embodiments the first connection may be torn down. If the first connection is not terminated it may be kept active as a background connection.

Furthermore enhanced call control may use split strategy where a voice path can be setup using either CS mode call control or PS mode e.g. VoIP call control. Selection between CS mode call control and PS mode call control may be determined by various criteria such as reliability cost preference etc. For example to improve the reliability of a successful call setup call control can first select CS mode to establish the call. Later as needed the call can be switched to be a PS VoIP call. Alternatively the call flow may always start with trying to establish a PS VoIP call first and upon failure to establish a connection or lack of a corresponding VoIP ID in the capability table the mobile terminal may setup a CS mode call. Once the CS mode call is set then in band signaling SMS MMS etc. may be used to exchange capability tables between mobile terminal and mobile terminal . Going forward mobile terminal and mobile terminal may choose to use the available PS VoIP paths. Alternatively the call flow may always start with trying to establish a CS voice call and a PS VoIP call simultaneously. The Call Control Module can choose among the successful connections which one to keep as the first connection and which to treat as background connections which it may choose to tear down .

In Block the mobile terminal may evaluate the background connection and determine whether it is preferable to the first connection established in Block . The evaluating may be based for example on whether the background connection which may be operating in a PS VoIP call mode is becoming unreliable on either side of a call due to for example air interface issues on either side of the background connection e.g. WiFi radio connection failing or backhaul issues e.g. a WiFi router or a backhaul connection on either end getting too much traffic or core network issues e.g. VoIP service core network on either end getting too much traffic . The evaluation in Block may be accomplished by characterizing the performance of the background connection based on known metric s e.g. signal to interference plus noise ratio data error rates etc. and then for example determining whether the performance meets a predetermined threshold associated with the metric s .

If the background connection is not preferable to the first connection then the content path may be maintained on the first connection Block . Another determination may be made whether to terminate the background connection Block . If the determination in Block is affirmative the background connection will be terminated Block . Otherwise the background connection will be maintained Block .

Alternatively if it is determined in Block that the background connection is preferable to the first connection then the content path may be switched to the background connection Block . A determination may then be made as to whether the first connection should be terminated Block . If so the first connection is terminated Block . Otherwise the first connection may be maintained as another background connection Block .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly the invention is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention. While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

