---

title: RFID tags backscattering based on challenge
abstract: RFID reader systems, readers, components, software and methods cause RFID tags to backscatter a combination made from at least portions of a first code and a second code, without transmitting any commands in the interim. The first and/or second codes may include a tag response to a reader challenge. In a number of embodiments, a separate command does not have to be sent for reading the second code along with the first code, thereby saving time in inventorying the tags. Plus, the combination can enable reading tag codes during tag manufacturing that are not otherwise readily available to read in the field. In some embodiments, the combination may further include one or more error-checking codes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129169&OS=09129169&RS=09129169
owner: Impinj, Inc.
number: 09129169
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131014
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 709 944 filed on Dec. 10 2012. The disclosure of this application is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 155 057 filed on Jun. 7 2011. The disclosure of this application is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

This application incorporates by reference commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 8 134 451 published on Mar. 13 2012 entitled RFID TAG CHIPS AND TAGS CAPABLE OF BACKSCATTERING MORE CODES AND METHODS in its entirety.

The present description addresses the field of Radio Frequency IDentification RFID systems and more specifically to causing such systems to yield their data more expeditiously.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID systems typically include RFID readers also known as RFID reader writers or RFID interrogators and RFID tags. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are particularly useful in product related and service related industries for tracking objects being processed inventoried or handled. In such cases an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item or to its package.

RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to interrogate one or more RFID tags. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency RF wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near field. The RF wave may encode one or more commands that instruct the tags to perform one or more actions.

A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave responds by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag generates the transmitted back RF wave either originally or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.

The reflected back RF wave may encode data stored in the tag such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader which thereby identifies counts or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number a price a date a time a destination an encrypted message an electronic signature other attribute s any combination of attributes and so on. The data items are sometimes known as codes. Accordingly when a reader receives tag data codes it can learn about the item that hosts the tag and or about the tag itself.

An RFID tag typically includes an antenna system a radio section a power management section and frequently a logical section a memory or both. In some RFID tags the logical section may include a cryptographic algorithm which in many instances relies on one or more passwords or keys stored in tag memory. In earlier RFID tags the power management section included an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as battery assisted semi active or active tags. Advances in semiconductor technology have miniaturized the electronics so much that an RFID tag can be powered solely by the RF signal it receives. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device and are called passive tags. Of course even passive tags typically include temporary energy and data flag storage elements such as capacitors or inductors.

A well known problem in RFID systems is speed in reading the tags especially when the reader reads more than one code from each tag. The problem is exacerbated if there are many tags or if the host items are moving and thus allow only limited time to read their tags.

Briefly the present invention provides RFID tags and integrated circuits ICs for RFID tags that store a first code and a second code in memory. The tags are capable of backscattering a combination of at least portions of the first code and the second code without receiving any commands in the interim. The present invention also provides RFID reader systems readers components software and methods for causing RFID tags to backscatter the combination without transmitting any commands in the interim.

In a number of embodiments separate reader commands do not have to be sent for reading the first and the second codes. Not sending separate commands can save time in inventorying the tags. Plus it can enable reading codes during tag manufacturing that are not otherwise readily available to read in the field.

These and other features and advantages of the invention will be better understood from the specification of the invention which includes the following Detailed Description and accompanying Drawings.

The present invention is now described in more detail. While it is disclosed in its preferred form the specific embodiments of the invention as disclosed herein and illustrated in the drawings are not to be considered in a limiting sense. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Indeed it should be readily apparent in view of the present description that the invention may be modified in numerous ways. Among other things the present invention may be embodied as devices methods software and so on. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment an entirely firmware embodiment or an embodiment combining aspects of the above. This description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

Reader and tag exchange data via wave and wave . In a session of such an exchange each encodes modulates and transmits data to the other and each receives demodulates and decodes data from the other. The data is modulated onto and demodulated from RF waveforms.

Encoding the data in waveforms can be performed in a number of different ways. For example protocols are devised to communicate in terms of symbols also called RFID symbols. A symbol for communicating can be a delimiter a calibration symbol and so on. Further symbols can be implemented for ultimately exchanging binary data such as 0 and 1 if that is desired. In turn when the waveforms are processed internally by reader and tag they can be equivalently considered and treated as numbers having corresponding values and so on.

Tag can be a passive tag or an active or semi active tag i.e. having its own power source. Where tag is a passive tag it is powered from wave .

Tag is often formed on a substantially planar inlay which can be made in many ways known in the art. Tag includes an electrical circuit which is preferably although not necessarily implemented as an integrated circuit IC . IC is arranged on inlay .

Tag also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with its environment. The antenna is often flat and attached to inlay . IC is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable antenna ports not shown in .

The antenna may be made in a number of ways as is well known in the art. In the example of the antenna is made from two distinct antenna segments which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible using any number of antenna segments.

In some embodiments an antenna can be made with even a single segment. Different points of the segment can be coupled to one or more of the antenna ports of IC . For example the antenna can form a single loop with its ends coupled to the ports. It should be remembered that when the single segment has more complex shapes even a single segment could behave like multiple segments at the frequencies of RFID wireless communication.

In operation a signal is received by the antenna and communicated to IC . IC both harvests power and responds if appropriate based on the incoming signal and its internal state. When responding via backscatter IC modulates the reflectance of the antenna which generates a backscatter signal from a wave transmitted by the reader. Coupling together and uncoupling the antenna ports of IC can modulate the antenna reflectance as can a variety of other means.

In the embodiment of antenna segments are separate from IC . In other embodiments antenna segments may alternately be formed on IC and so on.

The components of the RFID system of may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half duplex and is described below.

RFID reader and RFID tag talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME when reader talks to tag the communication session is designated as R T and when tag talks to reader the communication session is designated as T R . Along the TIME axis a sample R T communication session occurs during a time interval and a following sample T R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval is typically of a different duration than interval here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.

According to blocks and RFID reader talks during interval and listens during interval . According to blocks and RFID tag listens while reader talks during interval and talks while reader listens during interval .

In terms of actual technical behavior during interval reader talks to tag as follows. According to block reader transmits wave which was first described in . At the same time according to block tag receives wave and processes it to extract data and so on. Meanwhile according to block tag does not backscatter with its antenna and according to block reader has no wave to receive from tag .

During interval tag talks to reader as follows. According to block reader transmits a Continuous Wave CW which can be thought of as a carrier signal that ideally encodes no information. As discussed before this carrier signal serves both to be harvested by tag for its own internal power needs and also as a wave that tag can backscatter. Indeed during interval according to block tag does not receive a signal for processing. Instead according to block tag modulates the CW emitted according to block so as to generate backscatter wave . Concurrently according to block reader receives backscatter wave and processes it.

In the above an RFID reader interrogator may communicate with one or more RFID tags in any number of ways. Some such ways are described in protocols. A protocol is a specification that calls for specific manners of signaling between the reader and the tags.

One such protocol is called the Specification for RFID Air Interface EPC Radio Frequency Identity Protocols Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz which is also colloquially known as the Gen2 Specification . The Gen2 Specification has been ratified by EPCglobal which is an organization that maintains a website at at the time this document is initially filed with the USPTO. Version 1.1.0 and Version 1.2.0 of the Gen2 Specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In addition a protocol can be a variant of a stated specification such as the Gen2 Specification for example including fewer or additional commands than the stated specification calls for and so on. In such instances additional commands are sometimes called custom commands.

A driver can send to its respective antenna a driving signal that is in the RF range which is why connector is typically but not necessarily a coaxial cable. The driving signal causes the antenna to transmit an RF wave which is analogous to RF wave of . In addition RF wave can be backscattered from the RFID tags analogous to RF wave of . Backscattered RF wave is received by an antenna and ultimately becomes a signal sensed by unit .

Unit also has other components such as hardware and or software and or firmware which may be described in more detail later in this document. Components control drivers and as such cause RF wave to be transmitted and the sensed backscattered RF wave to be interpreted. Optionally and preferably there is a communication link to other equipment such as computers and the like for remote operation of reader system .

Local block is responsible for communicating with tags. Local block includes a block of an antenna and a driver of the antenna for communicating with the tags. Some readers like that shown in local block contain a single antenna and driver. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers and a method to switch signals among them including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. And some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that can operate simultaneously. A demodulator decoder block demodulates and decodes backscattered waves received from the tags via antenna block . Modulator encoder block encodes and modulates an RF wave that is to be transmitted to the tags via antenna block .

Local block additionally includes an optional local processor . Processor may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation digital and or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors DSPs controllers such as microcontrollers software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs . Field Programmable Analog Arrays FPAAs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC any combination of one or more of these and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block the encoding function in block or both may be performed instead by processor .

Local block additionally includes an optional local memory . Memory may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation nonvolatile memories NVM read only memories ROM random access memories RAM any combination of one or more of these and so on. Memory if provided can include programs for processor to run if provided.

In some embodiments memory stores codes read from tags or codes to be written to tags such as Electronic Product Codes EPCs Tag Identifiers TIDs keys hashes and other data. Memory can also include reference data that is to be compared to the codes instructions and or rules for how to encode commands for the tags modes for controlling antenna and so on. In some of these embodiments local memory is provided as a database.

Some components of local block typically treat the data as analog such as the antenna driver block . Other components such as memory typically treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs a whole reader may be characterized as analog or digital but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.

If remote components are indeed provided they are coupled to local block via an electronic communications network . Network can be a Local Area Network LAN . a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a network of networks such as the internet or a mere local communication link such as a USB PCI. and so on. In turn local block then includes a local network connection for communicating with network .

There can be one or more remote component s . If more than one they can be located at the same location or in different locations. They can access each other and local block via network or via other similar networks and so on. Accordingly remote component s can use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection is shown which is similar to local network connection etc.

Remote component s can also include a remote processor . Processor can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local processor .

Remote component s can also include a remote memory . Memory can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local memory . Memory may include a local database and a different database of a Standards Organization such as one that can reference EPCs.

Of the above described elements it is advantageous to consider a combination of these components designated as operational processing block . Block includes those that are provided of the following local processor remote processor local network connection remote network connection and by extension an applicable portion of network that links connection with connection . The portion can be dynamically changeable etc. In addition block can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna driver and cause antenna driver to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.

Block includes either local processor or remote processor or both. If both are provided remote processor can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that block as defined this way is in communication with both local memory and remote memory if both are present.

Accordingly block is location agnostic in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor or by remote processor or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor and some by remote processor . Block accesses local memory or remote memory or both for storing and or retrieving data.

Reader system operates by block generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna driver block with modulator encoder block encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna driver block demodulated and decoded by demodulator decoder block and processed by processing block .

The invention additionally includes programs and methods of operation of the programs. A program is generally defined as a group of steps or operations leading to a desired result due to the nature of the elements in the steps and their sequence. A program is usually advantageously implemented as a sequence of steps or operations for a processor such as the structures described above.

Performing the steps instructions or operations of a program requires manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities may be transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated or processed according to the steps or instructions and they may also be stored in a computer readable medium. These quantities include for example electrical magnetic and electromagnetic charges or particles states of matter and in the more general case can include the states of any physical devices or elements. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to information represented by the states of these quantities as bits data bits samples values symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are associated with the appropriate physical quantities and that these terms are merely convenient labels applied to these physical quantities individually or in groups.

The invention furthermore includes storage media. Such media individually or in combination with others have stored thereon instructions of a program made according to the invention. A storage medium according to the invention is a computer readable medium such as a memory and is read by a processor of the type mentioned above. If a memory it can be implemented in a number of ways such as Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM etc. some of which are volatile and some non volatile.

Even though it is said that the program may be stored in a computer readable medium it should be clear to a person skilled in the art that it need not be a single memory or even a single machine. Various portions modules or features of it may reside in separate memories or even separate machines. The separate machines may be connected directly or through a network such as a local access network LAN or a global network such as the Internet.

Often for the sake of convenience only it is desirable to implement and describe a program as software. The software can be unitary or thought in terms of various interconnected distinct software modules.

This detailed description is presented largely in terms of flowcharts algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits on and or within at least one medium that allows computational operations such as a computer with memory. Indeed such descriptions and representations are the type of convenient labels used by those skilled in programming and or the data processing arts to effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A person skilled in the art of programming may use these descriptions to readily generate specific instructions for implementing a program according to the present invention.

Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware software firmware or any combination. It is advantageous to consider such a system as subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware some as software some as firmware and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described together with the RFID tag as an additional module.

An RFID tag is considered here as a module by itself. RFID tag conducts a wireless communication with the remainder via the air interface . It is noteworthy that air interface is really only a boundary in that signals or data that pass through it are not intended to be transformed from one thing to another. Specifications as to how readers and tags are to communicate with each other for example the Gen2 Specification also properly characterize that boundary as an interface.

RFID system includes one or more reader antennas and an RF front end module for interfacing with reader antenna s . These can be made as described above.

RFID system also includes a signal processing module . In one embodiment signal processing module exchanges waveforms with RF front end module such as I and Q waveform pairs.

RFID system also includes a physical driver module which is also known as data link module. In some embodiments physical driver module exchanges bits with signal processing module . Physical driver module can be the stage associated with the framing of data.

RFID system additionally includes a media access control module which is also known as MAC layer module. In one embodiment MAC layer module exchanges packets of bits with physical driver module . MAC layer module can make decisions for sharing the medium of wireless communication which in this case is the air interface.

RFID system moreover includes an application programming library module . This module can include application programming interfaces APIs other objects etc.

All of these RFID system functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a host processor might include a host operating system OS and or central processing unit CPU as in module . In some embodiments the processor is not considered as a separate module but one that includes some of the above mentioned modules of RFID system . In some embodiments the one or more processors may perform operations associated with retrieving data that may include a tag public key an electronic signature a tag identifier an item identifier and a signing authority public key. In some embodiments the one or more processors may verify an electronic signature create a tag challenge and verify a tag response.

User interface module may be coupled to application programming library module for accessing the APIs. User interface module can be manual automatic or both. It can be supported by the host OS CPU module mentioned above or by a separate processor etc.

It will be observed that the modules of RFID system form a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors buses interfaces and so on. These instrumentalities can be local e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other or over a network for remote communication.

The chain is used in one direction for transmitting RFID waveforms and in the other direction for receiving RFID waveforms. In transmitting mode waveform initiation can be in any one of the modules. Ultimately signals are routed to reader antenna s to be transmitted as wireless waves. In receiving mode reader antenna s receives wireless waves which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules.

The architecture of RFID system is presented for purposes of explanation and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments. Furthermore the features of the present disclosure can be performed either within a single one of the modules or by a combination of them.

In timing diagram the reader singulates each tag successively such that only one tag replies at a time while the other tags are silent. While each tag is thus singulated the reader reads its data by having a so called transaction with the tag. Three transactions are described as an example only while tens or hundreds or thousands of such transactions can take place. In addition each of transactions is not necessarily described in full but only some pertinent commands are given. Not shown are commands for example to singulate each tag although the tag may backscatter one or more of the shown codes as a consequence of the singulation commands.

Each of transactions is designed so as to read the desired information from the tags. In timing diagram a first code and a second code stored in memories of the tags are read out as follows. In first transaction with one tag a first command CMD elicits a first code CODE from the tag. Then a second command CMD elicits a second code CODE from the tag. Then in transaction with another tag first command CMD is repeated and elicits a first code CODE from the other tag. Then second command CMD is repeated and elicits a second code CODE from the other tag. Then in transaction with an additional tag first command CMD is repeated and elicits a first code CODE from the additional tag. Then second command CMD is repeated and elicits a second code CODE from the additional tag.

The first code and the second code can be any suitable codes. For example the first code can be an Electronic Product Code EPC of the tag associated with a host item to which the tag is attached. The second code can be a TID code of the tag which complies with the Gen2 Specification. Or the second code can be any one or more of a date of expiration of the tag s host item a date by which the host item is to be sold by a date at which the host item was sold a code for a sale of the host item a receipt of the sale an identifier for a retailer that made the sale an identifier for a store through which the sale is made an electronic signature a cryptographic quantity a random number and so on. The second code could also alternately be an identifier for the tag a password for the tag an indicator for how a memory of the first tag is configured and so on. Other codes can equivalently be used for the first and the second codes. In addition what is called first and second codes can be interchanged and so on.

As can be seen each command takes time each reply takes time and there can be many transactions. And the time to read the tags can be constrained if the host items are moving. The invention addresses this timeliness problem.

Circuit includes at least two antenna connections which are suitable for coupling to one or more antenna segments not shown in . Antenna connections may be made in any suitable way such as using pads and so on. In a number of embodiments more than two antenna connections are used especially in embodiments where more antenna segments are used.

Circuit includes a section . Section may be implemented as shown for example as a group of nodes for proper routing of signals. In some embodiments section may be implemented otherwise for example to include a receive transmit switch that can route a signal and so on.

Circuit also includes a rectifier and Power Management Unit PMU . Rectifier and PMU may be implemented in any way known in the art for harvesting raw RF power received via antenna connections . In some embodiments rectifier and PMU includes at least one rectifier and so on.

In operation an RF wave received via antenna connections is received by rectifier and PMU which in turn generates power for components of circuit . This is true for either or both reader to tag R T and tag to reader T R sessions whether or not the received RF wave is modulated.

Circuit additionally includes a demodulator . Demodulator demodulates an RF signal received via antenna connections . Demodulator may be implemented in any way known in the art for example including an attenuator stage an amplifier stage and so on.

Circuit further includes a processing block . Processing block receives the demodulated signal from demodulator and may perform operations. In addition it may generate an output signal for transmission.

Processing block may be implemented in any way known in the art. For example processing block may include a number of components such as a processor memory a decoder an encoder and so on.

Circuit additionally includes a modulator . Modulator modulates an output signal generated by processing block . The modulated signal is transmitted by driving antenna connections and therefore driving the load presented by the coupled antenna segment or segments. Modulator may be implemented in any way known in the art for example including a driver stage amplifier stage and so on.

In one embodiment demodulator and modulator may be combined in a single transceiver circuit. In another embodiment modulator may include a backscatter transmitter or an active transmitter. In yet other embodiments demodulator and modulator are part of processing block .

Circuit additionally includes a memory which stores data. Memory is preferably implemented as a Nonvolatile Memory NVM which means that the stored data is retained even when circuit does not have power as is frequently the case for a passive RFID tag. In some circumstances a portion of memory may be nonvolatile and another portion volatile. The data stored in memory can be a first code and a second code as per the above.

Processing block is able to cause first code to be backscattered if command CMD is received. In some embodiments processing block is further able to cause second code to be backscattered responsive to command CMD . In other embodiments second code cannot be caused to be backscattered explicitly. These embodiments depend on the nature of second code . For example some tags could be programmed to provide sale information responsive to a command while not providing a password responsive to any command.

To improve over the process of processing block is additionally able to receive a third command and in response cause to be backscattered a combination made from at least portions of the first code and the second code. This combination can be backscattered without receiving any commands in the interim while the combination is being backscattered. There are many possibilities for the third command and for the combination which are described later in this document.

The invention also includes methods. An economy is achieved in the present document in that a single description is sometimes given for both methods according to embodiments and functionalities of devices made according to embodiments. Plus a single set of flowcharts is sometimes used to describe methods in and of themselves along with operations of hardware and or software and or firmware where applicable. This is regardless of how each element is implemented.

Some methods of the invention are for the operation of RFID tags and of ICs that are intended for use with RFID tags. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described in this document. Examples are now given.

Other methods of the invention are for an operation of or for controlling an operation of an RFID reader an RFID reader system an RFID reader system component or related software. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described in this document. In addition individual operations of such methods may be practiced by different readers at different phases of the lifetime of an RFID tag with or without interruptions between them and so on. Examples are now given.

At next operation responsive to causing the third command to be transmitted there is received backscattered from the first tag a combination. No commands are caused to be transmitted while the combination is being backscattered. The combination is made from at least a portion of the first code and at least a portion of the second code. It will be recognized that this combination can be what is backscattered by the tag at operation described above. In some embodiments the combination may also include at least a portion of a third code at least a portion of a fourth code and in fact any number of codes may be included in the combination.

In a number of embodiments therefore a separate command does not have to be sent for reading also the second code after the first code is backscattered. This can save time in inventorying tags. An example is now described which is best understood by contrasting with the earlier described .

Timing diagram proceeds downward along a vertical axis TIME with commands transmitted by the reader alternating with replies backscattered by the tags. In the example of diagram the reader singulates each tag successively such that only one tag replies at a time while the other tags are silent. While each tag is thus singulated the reader reads its data by having a transaction with the tag. Three transactions are described as an example only while many more such transactions can take place. In addition each of transactions is not necessarily described in full but only some pertinent commands are given. Not shown are commands for example to singulate each tag for its transaction.

In first transaction with one tag a third command CMD elicits a combination of the tag. Combination as per the above includes at least a portion of the first code and the second code stored in the tag memory. Then in transaction with another tag third command CMD is repeated and elicits a combination of the other tag. Then in transaction with an additional tag third command CMD is repeated and elicits a combination of the additional tag.

As can be seen by comparing to transactions can take less time than respective transactions . In the embodiment of diagram according to a comment first code CODE and second code CODE were not backscattered in different installments and with an intervening command in the interim as they were in corresponding transaction of .

The nature of the third command is now described in more detail. In some embodiments the third command is different from the first command. In other embodiments the third command is identical to the first command which can be convenient from the design point of view.

In some of embodiments the tags backscatter the combination whenever they get the third command. In others the tags have a Gush mode. While in the Gush mode the tags backscatter the combination if they receive the third command which can be different or even the same as the first command.

In some embodiments the tags enter the Gush mode by a series of steps. In other embodiments the tags enter the Gush mode by receiving a Gush command. In yet other embodiments the Gush command can be a parameter of another command such as a parameter of a command that singulates the tags or a parameter of a command that causes the tags to compute a cryptographic response. A tag may backscatter the combination responsive to receiving the Gush command and the third command. An example is shown in where optional Gush command is transmitted prior to or as a part of the singulation.

In some embodiments the tags are always capable of the Gush mode. In other embodiments the Gush mode can operate only after it is enabled and or no longer operate after it is disabled. This can be accomplished in any number of ways. One such way is by additional commands. For example in an Enable Gush command precedes the Gush command and a Disable Gush command follows receipt of all combinations and .

This feature can also be useful in testing the programming of tags produced in large numbers. In those cases the second code can be of the type that is not made otherwise readily available to users. The combination can include for example a programmed EPC along with a passwords or the like for confirmation of programming. Plus the feature can be disabled for shipping the confirmed tag in the field for use by others.

The backscattered combination is now described in more detail. The combination is a code that is made from at least a portion of the first code a portion of the second code and in some embodiments include even more codes. Accordingly the combination can include the first code in whole or in part scrambled or not scrambled. By scrambled it is meant with its bits interchanged or encoded according to some key. Additionally the combination can include the second code in whole or in part with its bits scrambled or not scrambled. If the combination includes other codes they may also be included in whole or in part with their bits scrambled or not scrambled. Plus the included bits of the first code can be intermingled with those of the second or other codes or not. Moreover one or more error checking codes can be generated for one or more individual codes and or the combination for the reader to check the correctness of the received backscatter.

In some embodiments the combination is always formed by the tag in the same way from the bits of the first code the second code and optional other codes. In other embodiments the combination can be formed in different ways. In some of those the combination is further configured responsive to the Gush command.

In a number of embodiments the combination includes the first code or its portion and the second code or its portion with their bits not intermingled or scrambled. The first code or its portion can be before or after the second code or its portion. Examples are now described. In these examples only the first code and the second code are shown although it should be understood that the combination may include more codes.

In the example of the duration value is a two bit field code . Here the duration value is shown with the possible values it can take. Each value results in a different duration DT namely one of DT DT DT DT. The duration DT can be expressed in number of clock cycles in a number of RF cycles or in other units of time convenient for this purpose. Thus for example duration DT can have values chosen among the values of 0 4 msec 8 msec and 12 msec. In addition such a delay should not be too long because then other communication may start taking place. According to comment where DT 0 that is the case of no interim pause.

In some embodiments a combination may include one or more error checking codes associated with the portion of a first code a portion of a second code a portion of another code included in the combination and or the entire combination. is a conceptual diagram depicting a combination including a portion of a first code a portion of a second code and an error checking code . In some embodiments the error checking code may be a cyclic redundancy check CRC and may be calculated based on the entire combination . In other embodiments one or more portions of a code included in a combination may have its own error checking code. depicts a combination including a portion of a first code a portion of a second code an error checking code associated with the portion of the first code and an error checking code associated with the portion of the second code. In some embodiments the error checking code for each portion of the code in the combination may be appended to the associated portion of code prepended to the associated portion of code inserted into the associated portion of code or interspersed within the associated portion of code. In some embodiments a reader may use the error checking code or codes to check the correctness of the received backscatter in other embodiments a reader may use the error checking code or codes to correct errors in the received backscatter.

One or more of the above mentioned commands e.g. Gush Enable Gush Disable Gush. Tune third command etc. may be a part of the applicable communication protocol. Optionally they may be repurposed commands from the communication protocol where the entire command or only a portion of the command is repurposed. Alternatively they may be custom commands not specified in the communication protocol. The commands can be constructed in any number of ways. In some instances they may be standalone commands made from a sequence of bits chosen so that they do not conflict with other commands of the protocol. In some instances they can be commands that are known to the protocol or not with a special payload that distinguishes among different custom features and optionally transfers a parameter for the features.

When commands are used that are known to the protocol a section of their payload can be advantageously used for the purpose of implementing the Gush and or Tune functionality. Such a section in the payload can be a mask field according to embodiments. As an example for the Gen2 Specification one such command among several is the Select command. The Select command may be advantageous because it can be transmitted before or after a tag is singulated out of its population. Each one of the custom commands can thus be constructed as an implementation of this Select command. An example is now described.

The Feature Enabling Field FEF enables the tag to verify that it is a proper recipient for the command by comparing the transmitted FEF value against a value in Membank. In this case Membank can be EPC TID or USER memory. As can be seen the FEF can be further partitioned into subfields for better clarity. Such subfields might include for example if Membank is TID memory as described in Gen2 v1.1.0 a Class Identifier the MDID and an Indicator Bit.

The Class Identifier can be two bits. For example EPCglobal can correspond to a value of 10. This would allow the custom command to apply for example only to EPCglobal tags.

The MDID is the tag manufacturer s ID which is stored in the tag s TID memory. For Impinj tags this number is 000000000001 or 100000000001. The MDID allows a reader to select tags of only the manufacturer of interest. So. even if this Select command is transmitted and received before singulation the Select command can select also according to the tag manufacturer s ID. This will cause the manufacturer s tags to be selected and thus the reader can ensure prior knowledge of the tag manufacturer s identification.

The Indicator Bit can be set to 0 or 1. In the Gen2 Spec a tag model number follows the MDID. A bit of this model number can serve as the Indicator Bit and can be interpreted as follows If it is 0 the tags can interpret the command as an ordinary Select and execute it per the Gen2 Spec. Else if it is 1 the tags can interpret the Select command as a custom instruction and execute according to the FCF.

The Feature Command Field FCF can have a command code that indicates the number of the custom instruction. For example a command code of 00000 could be the Gush command. A 5 bit field permits 32 possible custom commands. A command code of 11111 could indicate an extended command field that extends into the subsequent data field allowing more than 32 custom commands.

The data field can contain data needed to implement the custom instruction if any. Not all commands will use it. The data field can be variable in size. Its meaning will derive from the command code. For example the duration value of the Tune command can be encoded as data in the FCF subfield shown in .

In some embodiments the tag may ignore the Target and Action field in the Select command depending on whether these fields are relevant. In other embodiments the tag may also set the appropriate Target flag.

In preferred embodiments the entire Select command must be valid for the tag to accept and execute the custom command. That means valid values for Membank Length Pointer Mask CRC 16 etc. An example is now described.

In some embodiments backscattering a combination of codes may be used in the context of cryptographic interactions between an RFID reader and one or more RFID tags as described below.

Electronic signatures often employ asymmetric cryptography. A signatory also referred to as a sender possesses a private public key pair where the private and public keys are mathematically related to each other. The sender uses the private key to generate the ES. A recipient uses the sender s public key to verify the ES. A verified ES provides the recipient with some confidence that the message was created by a known sender and that it was not altered in transit.

An important attribute of digital electronic signatures is that they are difficult to forge. A number of standards have been developed for digital signatures. The Digital Signature Standard DSS is a U.S. Government standard for digital signatures. DSS is specified in Federal Information Processing Standards FIPS and FIPS . FIPS specifies two digital signature algorithms the Digital Signature Algorithm DSA and the RSA digital signature algorithm. FIPS includes a third digital signature algorithm the Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm ECDSA . FIPS the Secure Hash Standard SHS specifies the hash functions to be used in conjunction with FIPS and FIPS . The DSS FIPS FIPS and FIPS are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Tag memory in diagram which is similar to tag memory in diagram may store a variety of data. Some of the data relevant to this disclosure may include a tag private key TPRK an identifier ID a tag public key TPK and an electronic signature ES .

A tag manufacturer or other legitimate entity may generate the tag private public TPRK TPK key pair. The tag keeps its TPRK secret. The tag uses the TPRK when responding to reader challenges. A signing authority which holds a master private public key pair generates a tag specific ES based on at least the signing authority s master private key and the TPK . The tag does not normally keep either the TPK or the ES secret. The ES signs at least the TPK and may sign the ID and or other tag information as well.

As shown in the tag stores its TPRK in memory portion which is typically unreadable by a reader. The tag stores its ID which identifies the tag and or an item to which the tag is attached in memory portion which is typically readable by a reader. This ID may be a tag identifier TID item identifier like an EPC code EPC or a unique item identifier UII or other number like a serialized global trade identification number SGTIN according to some standardized protocols. The tag stores its TPK in memory portion which is typically readable by a reader. The tag stores its ES in memory portion which is also typically readable by a reader.

Counterfeiters can clone tags that do not have a hidden key or other hidden secret by simply copying the tag memory contents. Counterfeiters cannot easily clone tags built according to embodiments because the tags contain an unreadable TPRK and use challenge response methods for authentication.

Embodiments also provide a means for a reader to authenticate a tag without needing to know a unique password or key for each tag. The tag exposes its TPK protected by an ES to the reader. The reader uses the signing authority s master public key and the ES to verify the TPK. The reader then uses the verified TPK and a challenge response dialog to authenticate the tag as described below.

Embodiments can be used for items and applications requiring counterfeit detection where genuine items have authentic tags but non genuine items do not have authentic tags and can be discovered traced and removed. Embodiments render counterfeiting or cloning a tag difficult by providing each authentic tag with a ideally unique private public key pair and allowing a reader to verify the tag s authenticity without needing to store a unique public key for every tag and without needing to access a network every time it wants to verify a tag. Example applications include retail food safety pharmaceutical document protection and the currency industries.

The interactions between reader and tag in diagram begin with an optional tag selection where the reader selects one or more tags from among a tag population for subsequent inventory and authentication. In some embodiments this optional selection may enable a Gush functionality as described above for the selected tags. This optional selection is followed by an inventory where the reader singulates a tag and receives an identifier from the tag. The shown inventory uses the Query ACK sequence described in the Gen2 Specification. Inventory is followed by access where the reader accesses the tag and reads the tag s TPK optional ID and ES. In some embodiments instead of sending the individual codes separately the tag may backscatter a combination including its TPK optional ID ES and or any other code s as described above. Finally access is followed by authentication where the reader authenticates the tag using a challenge response dialog as described herein.

As described above embodiments include different orderings of interactions between reader and tag. For example in some embodiments the reader may send a challenge during tag selection preceding the access where the reader reads the tag s TPK and the tag may compute its response and store the response in memory for subsequent reading by a reader. The tag s computation may include a tag random number and the tag may also store this random number for subsequent reading by the reader. Indeed in embodiments where the challenge occurs during tag selection and reading the response occurs during tag access authentication need not exist because its operations have been spread among select and access . One reason a reader may choose to send the challenge with select is for multiple tags to hear the challenge and compute their cryptographic responses in parallel. Because cryptographic computations can be time intensive enabling multiple tags to compute their responses in parallel allows more rapid authentication of a population of tags.

Authentication can include many options depending on the chosen cryptographic algorithm. In the particular embodiment shown in the reader first requests a tag random number from the tag. The tag generates a tag random number calculates an initial value IV from the tag random number and the TPRK and sends the IV to the reader. The reader then challenges the tag with a reader generated random number. The tag computes its response based on the TPRK the tag random number and the reader challenge and sends its response to the reader. In some embodiments the tag may backscatter a combination of its response and one or more other codes such as the tag IV a tag identifier and or some other identifier as described above. At this point the reader can verify the tag s response using the IV the reader random number and the TPK. Of course some challenge response variants do not use an IV others may include a command count or a message authentication code others may include the reader encrypting the random number in the reader challenge and yet others may include fewer or more steps than shown.

According to embodiments a reader retrieves a tag s TPK and ES obtains the signing authority s master public key via a network or other means verifies the TPK challenges the tag with a random number receives the tag s response and verifies the response using the TPK. In some embodiments the reader may also retrieve an ID from the tag and may use the ID to indicate a signing authority or a particular master key. In some embodiments the challenge may include the reader encrypting a random number RN using the TPK sending the encrypted RN to the tag receive a decrypted RN from tag and verifying by comparing the RN before encryption with the received decrypted RN. In other embodiments the challenge may include the reader sending an RN to the tag receiving an encrypted RN from tag decrypting the received RN using the TPK and verifying by comparing the sent RN with the decrypted received RN.

The operations described in process are for illustrative purposes only. An RFID tag authentication process using cryptographic techniques may be implemented using additional or fewer operations using symmetric or asymmetric ciphers and in different orders using the principles described herein.

More particularly utility may cause a tag to store one or more received instructions in its memory execute the instructions in response to a subsequent command or trigger event and respond differently to a reader command based on results generated by executing the instructions.

Architecture additionally includes an interface converter and an agent . Embodiments also include methods of operation of interface converter . Interface converter enables agent to control utility . Interface converter is so named because it performs a conversion a change as will be described in more detail below. Agent interface converter and utility can be implemented in any way known in the art. For example each can be implemented in hardware middleware firmware software or any combination thereof. In some embodiments agent is a human.

Between interface converter agent and utility there are respective boundaries . Boundaries are properly called interfaces in that they are pure boundaries as is the above described air interface.

In addition it is a sometimes informal usage to call the space between boundaries and which includes interface converter an interface . Further it is common to designate this space with a double arrow as shown with an understanding that operations take place within the arrow. So although interface is located at a boundary between agent and utility it is not itself a pure boundary. Regardless the usage of interface is so common for interface converter that this document sometimes also refers to it as an interface. It is clear that embodiments of such an interface can be included in this invention if they include an interface converter that converts or alters one type of transmission or data to another as will be seen below.

Agent can be one or more layers in an architecture. For example agent can be something that a programmer programs to. In alternative embodiments where agent is a human interface converter can include a screen a keyboard etc. An example is now described.

Returning to one way interface converter can be implemented is as a software Application Programming Interface API . This API can control or provide inputs to an underlying software library and so on.

Communications can be made between agent interface converter and utility . Such communications can be as input or can be converted using appropriate protocols etc. What is communicated can encode commands data etc. Such communications can include any one or a combination of the following a high down communication HDNT from agent to interface converter a low down communication LDNT from interface converter to utility a low up communication LUPT from utility to interface converter and a high up communication HUPT from interface converter to agent . These communications can be spontaneous or in response to another communication or in response to an input or an interrupt etc.

Commands are more usually included in communications HDNT and LDNT for ultimately controlling utility . Controlling can be in a number of manners. One such manner can be to install utility or just a feature of it. Such installing can be by spawning downloading etc. Other such manners can be to configure enable disable or operate utility or just a feature of it. These commands can be standalone or can carry parameters such as data instructions to be stored by tags etc. In some embodiments interface converter can convert these commands to a format suitable for utility .

Data is more usually included in communications HUPT and LUPT. The data can inform as to success or failure of executing an operation. The data can also include tag data which can be both codes read from tags and data about reading tags such as time stamps date stamps etc. . In some embodiments interface converter can convert the data to a format suitable for agent including in some cases aggregating filtering merging or otherwise altering the format or utility of the data.

It should be noted that what passes across a single pure boundary is unchanged by the mere definition of what is a pure boundary . But what passes through interface converter can be changed or not. More particularly high down communication HDNT can be being encoded similarly to or differently from low down communication LDNT. In addition low up communication LUPT can be encoded similarly to or differently from high up communication HUPT. When different the difference can be attributed to interface converter which performs a suitable change or conversion of one communication to another. The change or conversion performed by interface converter is for exposing the functionality of utility to agent and vice versa. In some embodiments a command is converted but a parameter is passed along without being converted. Plus what is not converted at one module may be converted at another. Such modules taken together can also form an interface converter according to embodiments.

Agent interface converter and utility can be implemented as part of a reader or as a different device. For being implemented as part of a reader suggests a scheme where agent interface converter and utility can be implemented in connection with respective reader modules that are suitable depending on the requirements.

Everything described above in terms of readers and reader components finds some correspondence with tags and tag ICs and vice versa. Numerous details have been set forth in this description which is to be taken as a whole to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail so as to not obscure unnecessarily the invention.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or aspects it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or aspect within such block diagrams or examples may be implemented according to embodiments formed individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example transceivers in this disclosure are interchangeable with RFID readers and vice versa. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods configurations antennas transmission lines and the like which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . Where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member.

