---

title: Apparatus and methods for providing authorized device access
abstract: Methods, apparatus, and systems are described for providing an accessor device an access credential to interact with a device resource on an accessee device. An authorization entity having a trust relationship with the accessee device, or a linked subordinate authorization entity, generates the access credential. The access credential includes a modification detection indicator, at least one access privilege, and an accessor public key. The at least one access privilege corresponds to at least one device resource on the accessee device. The authorization entity forwards the access credential to the accessor device, which presents the access credential to the accessee device for authentication. Once authenticated, the accessee device grants access to one or more device resources, and controls requests to insure they are within the scope of the at least one access privilege.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100403&OS=09100403&RS=09100403
owner: QUALCOMM, Incorporated
number: 09100403
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130806
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 641 305 entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING AUTHORIZED DEVICE ACCESS filed Dec. 17 2009 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 140 969 entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING AUTHORIZED DEVICE ACCESS filed Dec. 28 2008 which are both assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The described aspects generally relate to access security on computing devices. More particularly the described aspects relate to apparatus and methods of authorizing access to computing devices such that privileged actions may be performed only by authorized parties.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful personal computing devices. For example there currently exist a variety of portable personal computing devices including wireless computing devices such as portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices which are each small lightweight and can be easily carried by users. More specifically the portable wireless telephones for example further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks. Further many such cellular telephones are being manufactured with relatively large increases in computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs.

In some cases an entity such as a software developer operating a first computing device may desire access to applications and data residing on a second computing device. The device to be accessed may include protection mechanisms to control the access to its device resources. For example protection mechanisms have included encryption protocols that provide only a simple all or nothing access to the device.

Other systems that provide secure communications between a client computing device and external devices are known to do so by at least in part having a secure credential installed on the client computing device at the time of manufacture. In one example a service provider provides a secure credential to the manufacturer of the client computing device such that the manufacturer can install the secure credential during the manufacturing process.

In some systems secure communication is provided in part by the installation or programming of phones by an authorized agent. Such programming can occur after the client computing devices have been manufactured and shipped. In one example a secure credential is installed on the client computing device at the time and place of sale of the device. Here in at least one example an authorized agent inputs a code from a list of unique secure codes into the client computing device. In other instances automated readers are used to transfer individual secure codes to each client computing device. This process avoids some of the difficulties associated with programming such client computing devices at the time of manufacture such as adding a dynamic manufacturing step to a typically static process. However this process still includes its own difficulties and vulnerabilities including the problem of potential unauthorized access to the list of secure credentials that would allow unauthorized entities to spoof the identity of an otherwise authorized device.

Further typical hard wired or hard coded approaches to using credentials require each client device be physically serviced by a service technician whenever a situation such as a security breach has occurred. Such a situation includes for example the need to replace add and or otherwise update one or more credentials. The operational cost of a requirement to be physically serviced by a service technician is extremely high particularly when large numbers of client devices are compromised.

More specifically one such mechanism for authorizing privileged access to a device over serial connections includes the use of service programming codes SPCs . Due to their lack of expressiveness ease of illicit spread and lack of traceability SPCs are not well suited to controlling access with fine grained or high powered privileges.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to include many of the secure communication advantages inherent in general secure communications techniques such as those associated with the use of secure credentials while also avoiding other less advantageous aspects of such existing systems such as the problems associated with storing cryptographic algorithms on wireless devices requiring the installation of secure credentials at the time of manufacture or the programming of secure credentials at point of sale locations and the ability to update or replace these credentials in the event of a security breach.

The described aspects include apparatus methods computer program products and processors operable to provide an accessor device with access to restricted resources of an accessee device.

In an aspect a method of gaining authorized access to a restricted resource on another device comprises receiving at an accessor device an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device. The access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key. The modification detection indicator is created by the authorization entity. Further the method includes communicating the access credential a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on an accessee device. Additionally the method includes receiving a result of an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. The result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

In another aspect at least one processor configured to gain authorized access to a restricted resource on another device comprises a first module for receiving an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device. The access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key. The modification detection indicator is created by the authorization entity. Further the at least one processor includes a second module for communicating the access credential a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on an accessee device. Additionally the at least one processor includes a third module for receiving a result of an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. The result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

An additional aspect includes a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium comprises at least one instruction operable to cause a computer to receive an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key. The modification detection indicator is created by the authorization entity. Further the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction operable to cause the computer to communicate the access credential a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device. Additionally the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction operable to cause the computer to receive a result of an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. The result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

A further aspect includes a communication device comprising means for receiving an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device. The access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. Further the communication device includes means for communicating the access credential a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device. Additionally the communication device includes means for receiving a result of an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. The result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

In another aspect an accessor device for accessing resources on an accessee device comprises a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The accessor device further includes an access module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The access module is operable to receive an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. The access module is further operable to initiate communication of the access credential a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device. Additionally the access module is further operable to receive a result of an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

In an aspect a method of providing access to device resources on an accessee device comprises receiving an access credential corresponding to an accessor device a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device wherein the access credential is associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with the accessee device and wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. The method further includes executing an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. Additionally the method includes transmitting a result of the access authentication process wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises a grant or a denial of access to the at least one device resource.

In a further aspect at least one processor configured to provide access to device resources comprises a first module a second module and a third module. The first module is for receiving an access credential corresponding to an accessor device a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device wherein the access credential is associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with the accessee device and wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. The second module is for executing an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. The third module is for transmitting a result of the access authentication process wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises a grant or a denial of access to the at least one device resource.

In yet another aspect a computer program product comprises a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium comprises at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive an access credential corresponding to an accessor device a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device wherein the access credential is associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with the accessee device and wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. Further the computer readable medium comprises at least one instruction for causing the computer to execute an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. Additionally the computer readable medium comprises at least one instruction for causing the computer to transmit a result of the access authentication process wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises a grant or a denial of access to the at least one device resource.

In another aspect a communication device comprises means for receiving an access credential corresponding to an accessor device a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device wherein the access credential is associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with the accessee device and wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. Further the communication device comprises means for executing an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. Additionally the communication device comprises means for transmitting a result of the access authentication process wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises a grant or a denial of access to the at least one device resource.

A further aspect includes an accessee device for providing access to resources. The accessee device comprises a processor at least one device resource in communication with the processor and a memory in communication with the processor. Additionally the accessee device includes an access authorization module stored in the memory and executable by the processor wherein the access authorization module comprises an access authorization process. The access authorization module is operable to receive an access credential corresponding to an accessor device a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device wherein the access credential is associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with the accessee device and wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. Further the access authorization module is operable to execute the access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. Additionally the access authorization module is operable to transmit a result of the access authentication process wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises a grant or a denial of access to the at least one device resource.

In another aspect a method for authorizing an accessor device to interact with resources on an accessee device comprises generating an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. Additionally the method includes communicating the access credential wherein the access credential is operable to authorize the accessor device to the accessee device and allow interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device in accordance with the at least one access privilege representation based on an access authentication process executed by the accessee device that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies a proof of identity of the accessor device based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. The result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

Further in an aspect at least one processor configured to authorize an accessor device to interact with resources on an accessee device comprises a first module and a second module. The first module is for generating an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. The second module is for communicating the access credential wherein the access credential is operable to authorize the accessor device to the accessee device and allow interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device in accordance with the at least one access privilege representation based on an access authentication process executed by the accessee device that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies a proof of identity of the accessor device based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. The result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

In another aspect a computer program product comprises a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to generate an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. Additionally the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to communicate the access credential wherein the access credential is operable to authorize the accessor device to the accessee device and allow interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device in accordance with the at least one access privilege representation based on an access authentication process executed by the accessee device that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies a proof of identity of the accessor device based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. The result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

In a further aspect an authorization device comprises means for generating an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device wherein the access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key wherein the modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. Additionally the authorization device includes means for communicating the access credential wherein the access credential is operable to authorize the accessor device to the accessee device and allow interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device in accordance with the at least one access privilege representation based on an access authentication process executed by the accessee device that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies a proof of identity of the accessor device based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. The result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

Additionally in another aspect a device for authorizing an accessor device to access resources on an accessee device comprises a processor a memory in communication with the processor a credential management module and a communication module. The credential management module is stored in the memory and is executable by the processor and includes a privilege establishment module operable to generate an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device. The access credential includes a modification detection indicator at least one access privilege representation and an accessor public key. The modification detection indicator was created by the authorization entity. Additionally the communication module is in communication with the processor and operable to communicate the access credential. The access credential is operable to authorize the accessor device to the accessee device and allow interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device in accordance with the at least one access privilege representation based on an access authentication process executed by the accessee device that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on the modification detection indicator that verifies a proof of identity of the accessor device based on the accessor public key and that verifies that the at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction. The result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

In another aspect a method of gaining authorized access to a restricted resource on another device comprises receiving at an accessor device an access credential identifier of an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device. The method further includes communicating the access credential identifier a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on an accessee device. Additionally the method includes receiving a result of an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on a corresponding modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on a corresponding accessor public key and that verifies that at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

In a further aspect at least one processor configured to enable an accessor device to gain authorized access to a restricted resource on another device comprises a first module for receiving an access credential identifier of an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device. The at least one processor further includes a second module for communicating the access credential identifier a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on an accessee device. Additionally the at least one processor includes a third module for receiving a result of an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on a modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on an accessor public key and that verifies that at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

In another aspect a computer program product comprises a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions. The instructions include at least one instruction operable to cause a computer to receive an access credential identifier of an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device. Further the instructions include at least one instruction operable to cause the computer to communicate the access credential identifier a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on an accessee device. Additionally the instructions include at least one instruction operable to cause the computer to receive a result of an access authentication that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on a modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on an accessor public key and that verifies that at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

In a further aspect a communication device comprises means for receiving an access credential identifier of an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device. Further the communication device includes means for communicating the access credential identifier a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device. Additionally the communication device includes means for receiving a result of an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on a modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on an accessor public key and that verifies that at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

In an aspect an accessor device for accessing resources on an accessee device comprises a processor a memory in communication with the processor and an access module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The access module is operable to receive an access credential identifier of an access credential associated with an authorization entity having a direct or an indirect trust relationship with an accessee device. Further the access module is operable to initiate communication of the access credential identifier a proof of identity and a request for interaction with at least one device resource on the accessee device. Additionally the access module is operable to receive a result of an access authentication process that verifies an authenticity of the access credential based on a modification detection indicator that verifies the proof of identity provided based on an accessor public key and that verifies that at least one access privilege representation in the access credential corresponds to a privilege to access the at least one device resource in the request for interaction wherein the result of the access authentication process comprises being granted or denied access to the at least one device resource.

Other aspects advantages and features of the described aspects will become apparent after review of the entire application.

The following detailed description describes methods apparatus and computer readable media used to authorize access to one or more predetermined resources on a computer device such that privileged actions may be performed on the accessed device. Unlike methods that may provide an all or nothing approach to granting privileges the described aspects permit a trusted entity or a subordinate entity having delegated authority from the trusted entity to dynamically generate credentials having only those privileges necessary to perform a predetermined task without compromising other aspects of the device being accessed.

Referring to in one aspect a system includes apparatus and methods for providing one device with authorized access to one or more resources of another device. For example system may include an accessor device attempting to interact with one or more of a plurality of device resources on an accessee device . As used herein accessor device refers to a device requesting access and or interaction with another device while accessee device refers to the device receiving the access and or interaction request. In typical operation accessee device prohibits or limits external access to the plurality of device resources such that without the present apparatus and methods the plurality of device resources would not be available to an external device such as accessor device .

For example the plurality of device resources may include but are not limited to one or any combination of data and or files and or file systems such as user input data including a contact name a contact address a contact phone and or fax number a content email address a picture an audio file a video file etc. configuration information such as device related configuration data network related configuration data service programming codes SPCs a security policy a virus scanner a server address etc. services such as a voice call a data call a speaker a microphone a display a position location and or geographical positioning system service a debug or trouble shooting service access to predetermined communication ports and any other service and or application available on the respective device and operating system level services such as a process creation capability a file system access ability to launch and run applications etc.

In some cases for example device resources may not be accessible to an owner of accessee device but only to authorized personnel. Examples of such limited access device resources may include but are not limited to one or more of copyrighted content device configuration settings telemetry data etc. There may be a need however to allow authorized personnel to access one or more device resources . For example when an owner obtains a new device a technician may be authorized to transfer copyrighted content from the old device to the new device of the user. In another example a wireless device may have a subscriber identity module SIM locked to a given wireless network and or to a given system configuration but it may be desirable to allow an authorized technician to modify the setting or configuration while at the same time preventing the device owner from doing so. In yet another example a wireless device may have network related data and or settings that a user may not be allowed to change but that an authorized user such as a technician could be granted a limited privilege to access and verify and or change. It should be noted that the present aspects are not limited to these scenarios and that other similar use cases can exist.

Further system may include an authorization entity AE having a trust relationship with either accessee device and or with one or more device resource . Authorization entity may comprise or may be operable to generate a definition of one or more access privileges associated with each one of a plurality of device resources where each access privilege enables access and interaction with at least one of the plurality of device resources . For example one or more access privileges may include but are not limited to debugging and or performing device maintenance functions such as provisioning and reconfiguration of a wireless device managing an address book for synchronization utilities file system access uploading and or downloading of content e.g. pictures music ringers etc. and transferring of data between devices. In some aspects one or more of access privileges may include an unknown future privilege for example the privilege may include code and wherein determination of the definition of privileges associated with the code may be reserved for a later date. Further for example for each accessee device AE may store the relationship between each access privilege and the corresponding one or more of the plurality of device resources in an access control database . As such access privileges may be individual privileges or may be part of a set of privileges such as based on an organizational role a status a job title etc. Additionally it should be noted that AE and each one of the plurality of device resources or an operator associated with the respective resource may have a predetermined agreement with respect to the definition of each access privilege as well as to a policy on how to grant such privileges.

Further AE may include an authorization generator operable to issue an access credential to accessor device to enable access to and interaction with one or more of the plurality of device resources on accessee device . For example access credential may include one or more issued access privileges for example as determined by AE based on an identity and or purpose of accessor device and an authorization entity AE digital signature also referred to as a modification detection indicator to prove the authenticity of authorization credential . In some aspects for example issued access privileges may be selected from the available access privileges . In other aspects issued access privileges may be implicit privileges as opposed to a tangible privilege included in the credential. For example an implicit privilege may allow access to a respective device resource simply based on the possession of an access credential. Additionally AE and or authorization generator may forward AE credential to accessor device in order to allow accessor device to prove that access privileges in access credential are within the allowable scope of privileges capable of being granted by AE .

It should be noted that system may include a plurality of AEs wherein each AE is capable of having respective set of one or more access privileges corresponding to one or more device resources . As such in some cases each AE may be limited in scope as to the privileges it can grant with respect to one or more device resources of accessee device .

For example referring to in one aspect AE may comprise a plurality of entities such as a master authorization entity AE and one or more levels of one or more subordinate authorization entities such as entities and . Further master AE includes a master credential that enables authorization generator in master AE to generate one or more access credentials for use by accessor device and or one or more subordinate credentials such as and respectively for use by one or more subordinate authorization entities such as subordinate AEs and or located at a level below master AE . In this case for example subordinate AE is granted subordinate credential and subordinate AE is granted subordinate credential . In some aspects but not limited to these aspects the privileges granted by each respective credential may overlap or may be mutually exclusive but are equal to or less than the authority and privileges available to master AE . Likewise in some aspects subordinate AEs and may further delegate privileges by granting their own respective access credentials and or subordinate credentials based on the respective subordinate credential granted to them. As such in some aspects each successive subordinate credential comprises authority and privileges equal to or less than the authority and privileges included in the credential used to generate the respective subordinate credential. It should be noted that at any level of the hierarchy the respective subordinate credentials may overlap with respect to privileges or the respective subordinate credentials may provide unique sets of privileges. For example in one use case a cell phone chip manufacturer may grant multiple subordinate credentials each having separate sets of privileges based on an organizational function performed by each respective receiving entity. Thus a system for delegation of privileges is established that allows any number of levels of dynamic privilege granting wherein the privileges granted to a respective subordinate entity are equal to or less than the privileges available to the granting entity.

For example master AE may grant subordinate credential to subordinate AE and subordinate credential to subordinate AE where the authority and privileges in subordinate credentials and are equal to or less than the authority and privileges included in master credential . Likewise for example subordinate AE may grant subordinate credential to another delegate e.g. subordinate AE where the authority and privileges in subordinate credential are equal to or less than the authority and privileges included in subordinate credential . It should be noted that each granting entity may grant any number of subordinate credentials.

Further still referring to the respective credential used in the generation and granting of each subordinate credential may be passed to the respective subordinate entity thereby providing proof of the validity of the respective subordinate credential and proof that the scope of the privileges is valid via a chain of one or more higher level credentials. In some aspects the chain of credentials may not be included in a respective access credential however a reference thereto or indicator thereof may be included or the system may provide a mechanism to discover the links back to the master authorization entity. For example when master AE grants subordinate credentials and the respective subordinate AEs and also receive master credential from master AE or from another device. Alternatively master credential may be loaded onto each subordinate AE such as and at one time such as during manufacture and the respective subordinate credentials and may be provided at another time such as a time when corresponding privileges are granted or requested. As such credentials may be received at one time or at different times. Similarly when a delegate or subordinate entity issues a further subordinate credential the receiving entity receives all of the credentials up to master credential . For example when subordinate AE grants subordinate credential the receiving entity also receives 1 subordinate credential granted to subordinate AE 2 subordinate credential granted to subordinate AE which granted subordinate credential and 3 master credential from master AE which granted subordinate credential to subordinate AE . As such a chain of trust is provided based on the credentials. Similarly when accessee credential is granted by any subordinate entity the respective chain of credentials is received by accessee device thereby allowing accessee device to verify the scope of the respective privileges and to verify that the privileges were ultimately granted in some cases via one or more levels of delegation by a trusted party known to accessee device e.g. master AE . Therefore the present aspects allow for a very dynamic and multi level credential and privilege generation and granting system which provides for verifying the validity and scope of any issued credential and privileges.

Additionally for example any of the access credentials described above may be stored on a network device and the granting of a credential to a device may be communicated to the device by providing the access credential identifier to the device receiving the grant including information as to where the credential may be obtained or accessed. Accordingly when using the access credential a device may provide the respective access credential identifier to another device which enables the receiving device to retrieve or otherwise access the respective access credential from the network location. For example an access credential identifier may include one or more of an access credential identifier of an individual access credential a master authorization entity credential identifier corresponding to a master authorization entity credential one or more subordinate credential identifiers corresponding to one or more subordinate credentials and a chain identifier corresponding to a chain of credentials linking the access credential to the master authorization entity directly or through any number of other subordinate entities.

Thus system allows for specific access privileges to be granted and or delegated to specific AEs thereby providing a manager of system with the ability to dynamically control the generation of access credentials within the system.

Referring back to after receiving access credential from AE as well as after receiving or obtaining AE credential such as via network from AE accessor device executes an access module which is operable to communicate with accessee device . For example accessor device may communicate with accessee device through network or through a local wired or wireless connection . In some aspects for example access module presents access credential and AE credential to accessee device in order to provide authorization to access predetermined ones of the plurality of device resources based on the one or more issued access privileges . It should be noted however that AE credential may be available from other sources and it is not required for accessor device to provide AE credential . In response for example accessee device executes an access authorization module which is operable to verify access credential such as by validating AE digital signature with access entity AE public key or a chain of signed credentials such as may be signed by subordinate AEs leading back to the master AE and such as by validating the scope of access privileges for example via checking AE credential to insure that access privileges are equal to or less than the scope of privileges in AE credential . Verification of AE digital signature and inspection of AE credential allows accessee device to trust the information included with access credential as the verification process proves to accessee device that AE issued access credential and therefore has authorized the one or more issued access privileges .

It should be noted that in some aspects access authorization module may not know and or care what access privilege is granted as access authorization module is primarily concerned with verifying that access credential is authentic. As such system allows for the granting of privileges to be a very dynamic process as access authorization module does not need to be continually updated with new information with respect to which access privileges are properly associated with which device resources .

If access credential is not verified then access authorization module denies access to accessor device . If access credential is verified then access authorization module allows access and interaction with a predetermined one or more of the plurality of device resources wherein the respective device resource limits that interaction based on the one or more issued access privileges included in access credential . In one aspect for example after verification accessor device is able to execute access module to submit a request to accessee device for interaction with one or more of the plurality of device resources . In other aspects request may be presented at the same time as access credential . Upon receiving request after verifying access credential and verifying that request falls within the granted privileges accessee device may execute the requested device resource based on the one or more issued access privileges included within the verified access credential . Thus if verified access credential provides accessor device with authorized interaction with one or more of the plurality of device resources according to the one or more issued access privileges .

Although respectively illustrated as a laptop computer and a cellular telephone it should be noted that accessor device and accessee device may be any type of computer device. Further it should be noted that authorization entity accessor device and accessee device may be interconnected although not necessarily simultaneously through any type of communications link including network and local connection which may include a direct serial connection or a wireless connection.

Thus system provides a dynamic mechanism for allowing accessor device to access and interact with accessee device based on access credential issued by AE . As such while accessee device may have no knowledge of and or trust in accessor device as could be the case when dealing with a subordinate AE see system allows accessee device to interact with one or more device resources of accessor device based on the trust of accessee device in AE verified through AE digital signature and AE credential or chain of credentials . Further access credential may be dynamically created and advantageously may specifically identify selected ones of a plurality of access privileges associated with specific ones of a plurality of device resources authorized for access by AE in order to limit access on an as needed basis.

Referring to in one specific example of a procedure by which access to accessee device may be obtained at Event accessor device passes access credential and AE credential to device resource in order to initiate interaction. As noted above access credential was previously requested from or otherwise provided by AE . Further as noted above accessee device may obtain AE credential from another source. Access credential and AE credential are received by computer platform and forwarded to resource application . Before allowing interaction with device resource at Event resource application passes access credential and AE credential to access authorization module in order to verify authenticity and scope of privileges. At Events and access authorization module verifies AE digital signature with AE public key and verifies the scope of issued access privileges with respect to AE credential . At Event based on the verification check access authorization module returns a response verifying or denying the authenticity of access credential and or issued access privileges to resource application . In turn at Event resource application forwards a response indicating the result of the verification check to access module of accessor device . At Event if access credential and issued access credentials are verified then in response access module sends request to resource application . As noted above in some aspects request may be included in an initial communication along with access credential . In turn at Event resource application passes request or a reformatted representation or a portion of request to specific resource if request comprises an action within the issued access privilege . Optionally depending on the nature of request at Events and a request response may be returned to access module by specific resource and resource application . For example such a request response may comprise a verification that request was performed and or request response may comprise data associated with request . Thus accessee device can provide an unknown and untrusted accessor device with access to one or more device resources within the scope of an identified access privilege based on verifying that access credential was issued to accessor device by AE or issued by a subordinate authorization entity see under the authority of AE with whom accessee device and or the respective device resource has a trust relationship.

In some aspects the communications exchange between accessor device and accessee device may comprise a single round trip of sending access credential and request and receiving a result such as data returned based on the request or a notification of a denial of access or a denial of the request. In other aspects a communication session may be established once access credential is verified including the exchange of multiple requests and results. In such a communication session although accessee device trusts accessor device accessee device may still verify that each request falls within the scope of granted privileges based on access credential . Further it should be noted that accessor device may not present access credential upon every interaction with accessee device . For example subsequent to an initial presentation and verification of access credential in some aspects accessor device may only provide proof of identity such as through use of a previously generated and previously exchanged public private key pair to accessee device which may then reference a stored indication of the previously verified credential authenticity and privilege scope on computer platform .

Referring to in some aspects access credential may optionally include additional information as indicated by the dashed lines input by AE for identification and or verification purposes. For example besides one or more issued access privileges and AE digital signature access credential may include but is not limited to one or any combination of an issuer identifier a credential identifier an accessor identifier an indication of an accessor public key a validity indicator or an intended accessee identifier .

Issuer identifier may include a name code number or any other type of information that indicates the issuing source such as a name or hardware identification of authorization entity or such as the X.500 series of computer networking standards name of the entity e.g. a Certificate Authority that signed access credential . Issuer identifier may further include information identifying the algorithm used by AE to sign access credential .

Credential identifier may include a name code number or any other type of information that provides a unique identification of access credential for example to track issued and or expired access credentials and also for example a serial number to distinguish it from other certificates. Further for example credential identifier may also include unpredictable and or random data. Additionally for example credential identifier may include a pointer or other information identifying a location where an access credential is stored such as on a network device thereby enabling a granting entity to forward a credential identifier to a receiving entity as opposed to having to pass the actual credential. In some aspects the receiving entity may provide credential identifier to a device to be accessed and the device to be accessed may utilize the pointer or other location information to obtain or access the corresponding access credential in order to determine if access is to be granted or denied.

Accessor identifier may include a name code number or any other type of information that provides a unique identification of accessor device to which access credential is issued thereby helping to bind a respective access credential to an identified accessor device.

An indication of accessor public key may include a reference to or an actual copy of a publicly available cryptographic mechanism corresponding to a private cryptographic mechanism known only to accessor device for example inclusion of accessor public key may allow accessee device to further verify the identity of accessor device and or may allow establishment of a secure communication with accessor device . Accessor public key may further include an algorithm identifier which specifies which public key cryptographic system the key belongs to and any associated key parameters. In some aspects AE may include accessor public key within a granted and digitally signed access credential to enable accessee device to insure that the device requesting access is the proper accessee device to whom the access credential was granted as is discussed below in more detail.

Validity indicator may include an indicator as to a restriction with respect to the validity of access credential . For example validity indicator may include a time based restriction such as one or any combination of a day a date a time a start date and or time and an end date and or time a number of uses etc. Additionally for example validity indicator may include a use based restriction such as a predetermined number of uses. Further for example validity indicator may include a location based restriction such as may be associated with a geographic location and or a network based location. Additionally for example validity indicator may include a device state based restriction such as based on one or any combination of values of any state associated with any function or component of the respective accessee device and or the respective accessor device.

Intended accessee identifier may include a name code number or any other type of information that indicates a specific accessee device for which access credential is valid such as a name or hardware identification of accessee device . Further with respect to access credential AE may apply AE digital signature to any one or any combination of the above noted parameters. Additionally in some aspects access credential may include or may be associated with AE credential and or an indicator of an AE public key which may be used to authenticate AE credential and or AE digital signature .

In some aspects access credential may include all of the above noted parameters. In other aspects for example in the case of a very short lived access credential accessor public key may not be included as it may be unnecessary to further verify accessor device and or it may be unnecessary to utilize accessor public key to establish a secure communication as the duration of the validity of access credential may effectively minimize security threats to accessee device . For example a very short lived validity duration may include access credential having validity indicator representing a number of uses or in other cases a time period such as from about 1 minute to about 10 minutes. For a time based validity indicator a clock that is synchronized between AE and accessee device and or accessor device may be utilized. Additionally the clock could be a logical clock or a real time clock. Further in some aspects such as when accessor device does not have an established public private key pair AE may establish such a key pair for accessor device for use with the device access apparatus and methods discussed herein.

Referring to an aspect of system may incorporate a wireless network and may include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless client computing devices such as accessee devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

In some aspects AE may be part of a greater authorization infrastructure that may include one or more Certificate Authorities CA acting as a root CA or trusted third party. It should be noted however that AE is generally considered a CA in some form. When appropriate AE may obtain a certificate from another server CA within the authorization infrastructure .

Further in some aspects system includes the delegation of access credentials such that one entity or organization such as AE can issue access credential to other entities such as accessor device who may further issue additional access credentials to additional entities. For example authorization infrastructure may include a root CA that may issue an access credential to a carrier network where the access credential may include one or more access privileges to one or more given accessee devices and or device resources. In turn the carrier network may dynamically generate delegated access credentials for employees service contractors etc. where the delegated access credentials include access privileges no broader and typically narrower than the originally issued privileges as granted by the root CA. The delegation of privileges provides organizational flexibility in granting privileges as such delegation allows intermediate organizations to issue credentials based on privileges available to the organization. Further such delegation allows an intermediate organization to control the credentials as the credentials can be limited to predetermined privileges that are specific to the access required thereby reducing potential abuse of access privileges.

In some aspects AE along with any other servers including the authorization infrastructure may be part of a carrier network and are operable to dynamically generate access credentials allowing authorized accessor device to access restricted features e.g. the plurality of device resources on one or more accessee devices .

In system carrier network controls messages sent as data packets sent to a wireless network and more specifically to mobile switching center MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection transfers data information between the carrier network and the MSC and the POTS transfers voice information.

The MSC is connected to multiple base stations BTS which communicate with one or more accessee devices which are wireless devices in this example. In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to each BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. Each BTS ultimately wirelessly exchanges voice and data calls with accessee devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS and or other over the air methods.

Referring to accessee device may include for example one or more computing device components including processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such a computing device includes for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs paging devices a wireless modem a PCMCIA card an access terminal a personal computer and any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein.

In some aspects accessee device includes memory communications module and processor each communicatively coupled via a bus . Memory may include one or more of any type of volatile and or non volatile memory including all known types of memory which provide for the storing of configured logic. In addition although memory is shown as one contiguous unit of one type of memory other aspects use multiple locations and or multiple types of memory as memory . Additionally the memory may further include a device identifier e.g. a serial number a hardware identifier global identifier GID and IP address a transient identifier such as a nonce etc. which is operable to uniquely identify the accessee device . Further the communications module provides input and output to resources on device via the bus as well as providing input and output between accessee device and an external device. Additionally the processor operates on instructions and data provided via the bus .

Additionally in some aspects accessee device may include a runtime environment executing to provide an interface between applications running on the device and processor and or predetermined ones of the plurality of device resources . Such a runtime environment may be referred to as an application programming interface API . One such runtime environment or API is BREW software platform developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In other aspects however accessee device is suitable for use with other types of runtime environments APIs that for example operate to control the execution of applications on the accessee device.

In some aspects communications module may include a plurality of communication interfaces each of which provide a connection to a corresponding one or more of the plurality of device resources . For example plurality of communication interfaces include but are not limited to one or any combination of a serial port a debug port an infrared port a Bluetooth port a network socket connection a universal serial bus USB a FireWire interface and a high frequency wireless local area network connection such as a wireless fidelity WiFi path.

Further accessee device may include one or more input devices and one or more output devices to allow for user interaction with accessee device . Input device may include but is not limited to a device such as a port a key a microphone a touch sensitive display a mouse etc. Output device may include but is not limited to a device such as an audio speaker a display a haptic interface a mechanical vibrator etc. Input device and output device may be communicatively coupled with other device components through bus .

Accessor device may access the accessee device through communications interface such as over either or both of local connection and remote path through network . Typically a physically connected local connection e.g. a hardwired serial connection does not need integrity protection or encryption for exchanging data. Furthermore local connections may not need an authentication protocol e.g. a zero knowledge proof that can defend against man in the middle attacks. Accordingly whereas remote connections may need a secure socket layer SSL or equivalent local connections may suffice with a less secure communication protocol.

In order that privileged actions over a local connection and or a remote connection through network may be performed on accessee device without compromising the integrity of the device memory may include the dynamic access authorization module . Based upon access credential supplied by accessor device and further based on AE credential the access authorization module may be configured to allow authorized users e.g. accessor device a high granularity of privileged features on the accessee device .

In some aspects the access authorization module may be preloaded into a memory of the accessee device . In other aspects the access authorization module may be a later added module which may be digitally signed for authentication purposes. For example access authorization module may be downloaded onto the accessee device by another device such as accessor device .

Prior to loading of the access authorization module the operating environment provided by accessee device substantially limits the privileges granted to an externally connected device such as accessor device . Once loaded the access authorization module becomes a gatekeeper providing a high degree of granularity in the granting of access to privileged interactions with one or more of the plurality of device resources . In particular access authorization module communicates with an accessing device e.g. accessor device to receive an AE issued access credential granting specific access privileges which may be specifically tied to one or more of the plurality of device resources . For example as noted above AE and accessee device and or device resources may agree in advance on a definition of each of the plurality of available access privileges as well as on an association between each available privilege and access or interaction with at least one of the plurality of device resources . Further accessee device may additionally limit access to predetermined ones of the plurality of device resources based on which one of the plurality of communication interfaces are being accessed. In some aspects for example access authorization module or each device resource may include an access control database to store the various agreed upon relationships between the plurality of available access privileges the respective device resource and optionally the plurality of communication interfaces .

Access authorization module may include one or any combination of hardware software executable instructions and data operable to carry out the functionality described herein. In some aspects access authorization module may include access authorization logic which is executable by processor to manage the operations of access authorization module .

In some aspects access authorization module may include a verification module operable to inspect a received access credential and AE credential and determine authenticity and privilege scope. For example verification module verifies AE digital signature contained in access credential using AE public key . Further for example verification module verifies issued privileges are within the scope of AE credential . Based on this verification process verification module may issue an authentication determination . Authentication determination represents a result of the verification process such as an authenticated result or a not authenticated result with respect to either or both of the access credential and the issued privileges. In the case of authentication determination corresponding to an authenticated result access authorization module accepts access credential thereby allowing a respective device resource to provide access to accessor device based on the one or more issued access privileges included in access credential . In the case of authentication determination corresponding to a not authenticated result with respect to the credential access authorization module denies access credential thereby allowing a respective device resource to not allow access by accessee device . In the case of authentication determination corresponding to a not authenticated result with respect to the issued privileges depending on a configurable system policy access authorization module may entirely deny access or may allow access only based on privileges falling within the approved scope. In any case verification module may be operable to generate an access notification message and initiate transmission thereof via communication module to the device providing access credential e.g. accessor device where notification message communicates the result of the credential authorization process.

Further access authorization module may inspect a proof of identity supplied by accessor device to verify the identity of accessor device . For example the proof of identity may include an exchange of communications where accessee device can verify the identity of accessor device based on accessor public key which may be included within access credential in order to be used to verify the identity of the authorized accessor. In particular access authorization module will be able to verify the identity of accessor device based on received messages encrypted using the corresponding private key of the accessor device. Additionally the proof of identity provide by accessory device may be included initially along with access credential .

Additionally in some optional aspects access authorization module may further include a control module operable to insure that a device granted access e.g. accessor device is provided access within the bounds or scope of the one or more issued access privileges included in an authenticated access credential . For example control module inspects request received from a device granted access e.g. accessor device to insure that each requested action included in request falls within the scope of at least one issued privilege . For example control module may reference access control database and compare requested action with the one or more device resources with which interaction is allowed based on the one or more issued access privileges . Further in some optional aspects control module may additionally consider which one of the plurality of communication interfaces is being used by accessor device and further limit access based thereon. As such based on this control process control module may issue a control determination . Control determination represents a result of the control process such as a valid result or a not valid result e.g. where requested action respectively falls within or lies outside the scope of one or more issued privileges . In the case of control determination corresponding to a valid result access authorization module accepts requested action and allows accessee device to perform the action. In the case of control determination corresponding to a not valid result access authorization module denies requested action and does not allow the action to occur. In either case but more likely in the not valid result case control determination may be operable to generate and initiate transmission via communication module of a control message to the device providing access credential e.g. accessor device where control message communicates the result of the action control process.

In other aspects access authorization module may not include control module and access control database but the above described functionality of controlling access may be incorporated within the respective device resource . For example each device resource may include all or some portion of the above described functionality of control module and access control database . As such in these aspects each respective device resource is operable to determine whether or not a received request is within the bounds of an issued access privilege of a verified access credential and responds accordingly. In some aspects of this case each device resource has a trust relationship with AE and thereby the definition of each of the plurality of access privileges with respect to the device resource are known and agreed upon e.g. they are predetermined prior to the issuance of access credential . In other aspects of this case each privilege corresponds to a known aspect of the respective device resource and thus a predetermined relationship does not need to be established but access to some aspect of the respective device resource may be granted merely based on the trust relationship and verification of access credential .

Additionally in some aspects access authorization module or each respective device resource may be operable to manage the transmission of a request result to accessor device in response to request . Request result may include information related to the processing of requested action by a respective one of the plurality of device resources . For example request result may identify one or any combination of the action requested one or more of the plurality of device resources associated with the interaction and or a result of the requested action.

Additionally in some aspects access authorization module or each device resource may be operable to maintain an access log which may store information related to communications with AE and or accessor device . For example access log may provide an audit trail of agreed upon relationships between the plurality of device resources and the plurality of access privileges received access credentials as well as requests requested actions and request results with respect to interactions with respective accessor devices . Similar logs may be maintained by accessor device and AE in order to correlate actions within system thereby potentially identifying breaches in the security of system .

Referring to in at least one aspect accessor device is operable to obtain access credential from AE and forward it to accessee device which is operable to authenticate access credential and allow one or more predetermined interactions with the plurality of device resources based on the issued access privileges . Although illustrated as a laptop computer accessor device may include any type of wired or wireless computerized device such as a cellular telephone a PDA a pager and a desktop computer.

In one aspect for example accessor device may include a memory operable to store applications and or programs executable by a processor . Memory and processor may be communicatively coupled via a bus which may be further communicatively coupled with a communications module .

Communications module may include hardware software executable instructions and data enabling the receipt transmission and or exchange of information within accessor device and between accessor device and external devices. For example communications module may provide for an exchange of data among components of accessor device as well as between accessor device and an external communication network such as network and an external device such as accessee device and authorization entity . For example communications module may be operable to communicate with accessee device and or AE over local connection and or via network . Additionally communications module may include transmit and receive chain components respectively for transmitting and receiving information to and from external devices.

Further accessor device may include one or more input devices and one or more output devices to allow for user interaction with accessor device . Input device may include but is not limited to a device such as a port a key a microphone a touch sensitive display a mouse etc. Output device may include but is not limited to a device such as an audio speaker a display a haptic interface a mechanical vibrator etc. Input device and output device may be communicatively coupled with other device components through bus .

Further in some optional aspects accessor device may include a runtime environment executing to provide an interface between applications and or modules running on the device and processor . Such a runtime environment may be referred to as an application programming interface API . One such runtime environment or API is the BREW software platform developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In other aspects however accessor device may utilize other types of runtime environments that for example operate to control the execution of applications on the accessor device.

Additionally memory may include a device identifier e.g. a serial number a hardware identifier global identifier GID a globally unique identifier GUID a chip identifier etc. which is operable to uniquely identify accessor device .

Further memory may include access module operable to provide communication with accessee device and or AE . Access module may include access logic to carry out all or some portion of the functionality described herein with respect to access module . For example access logic may be operable to receive access credential and optionally AE credential and forward it them to accessee device in order to gain access to one or more of the plurality of device resources on accessee device . Further access logic may be operable to generate request and requested action once access to accessee device is authorized. For example access logic may receive inputs via communications module representative of requested action from a user of accessor device in order to generate request . Additionally access logic may be operable to receive and analyze or further process request result if any.

Additionally in some aspects access module may be operable to generate a credential request and transmit via communications module request to AE . For example credential request may identify accessor device such as via device identifier as well as a requested one or more of the plurality of access privileges . It should be noted however that credential request may not be necessary and that AE and or another device with authorization infrastructure may unilaterally assign or issue access credential to accessor device .

In some aspects access module may include secure communications information operable to enable secure communications with an external device such as AE and or accessee device . For example secure communications information may include protocols for establishing the identity of accessor device and for exchanging information in a secure manner once identity has been established. For example such protocols may be utilized in instances in which accessor device transmits credential request to AE . Further for example such protocols may be utilized to exchange information with accessee device after access credential has been authenticated. For example secure communications information may include encryption and decryption mechanisms such as symmetrical keys which may allow for a quicker exchange of information when compared to other encryption mechanisms such as the use of public private key pairs. Additionally secure communications information may include accessor device private key which may be used to encrypt and or digitally sign messages and or to decrypt received messages encrypted with the corresponding accessor device public key. Accessor private key is part of a key pair along with accessor public key which may be stored in a non secure area of memory . In some aspects encryption between accessor device and accessee device may not be utilized. For example encryption may not be utilized with a sufficiently short lived access credential based upon validity indicator . On the other hand in some other aspects the data transmitted over the interface may be encrypted for example using Secure Socket Layer SSL .

Additionally in some aspects access module may be operable to maintain an access log which may store information related to communications with AE and or accessee device . For example access log may provide an audit trail of credential requests received access credentials as well as requests requested actions and request results with respect to interactions with respective accessee devices . As noted above similar logs may be maintained by accessee device and AE in order to correlate actions within system thereby potentially identifying security leaks within system .

Referring to in one aspect AE is operable to dynamically generate access credential that authorizes accessor device to perform normally restricted interactions with one or more of the plurality of device resources of accessee device . Although discussed with reference to accessor device and accessee device it should be understood that AE is operable to generate access credential to a plurality of accessor devices with respect to each accessee device and or to generate access credential for accessing a plurality of accessee devices and or to generate one or more subordinate credentials e.g. subordinate credential to one or more subordinate AEs who may then in turn themselves grant access credential or who may grant one or more further subordinate credentials that can be used to grant access credential and so on.

AE may include at least one of any type of server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further there can be separate servers or computer devices associated with AE that work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between an access device and the AE .

In one aspect AE may include a memory operable to store applications and or programs executable by a processor . Memory and processor may be communicatively coupled via a bus which may be further communicatively coupled with a communications module .

Communications module may include hardware software executable instructions and data enabling the receipt transmission and or exchange of information within AE and between AE and external devices. For example communications module may provide for an exchange of data among components of AE as well as between AE and an external communication network such as network and an external device such as accessee device and accessor device . For example communications module may be operable to communicate with accessee device and or accessor device over a local connection and or via network . Additionally communications module may include the transmit and receive chain components for transmitting and receiving information respectively to and from external devices.

Further AE may include one or more input devices and one or more output devices to allow for user interaction with AE . Input device may include but is not limited to a device such as a port a key a microphone a touch sensitive display a mouse etc. Output device may include but is not limited to a device such as an audio speaker a display a haptic interface a mechanical vibrator etc. Input device and output device may be communicatively coupled with other device components through bus .

In addition memory may include a credential manager module operable to generate access credential and or subordinate credential based on AE credential for one or more accessor devices and or subordinate AEs to respectively allow for access to the resources of one or more accessee devices and to allow for the further delegation of privileges. In some aspects credential manager module includes credential management logic executable by processor to perform the functionality described herein.

In some aspects credential manager module may include a privilege establishment module operable to interact with accessee device and or each respective device resource to establish relationships between each of the plurality of device resources and respective ones of the plurality of access privileges . Optionally privilege establishment module may additionally restrict these relationships based on one or more of the plurality of communications interfaces on the respective accessee device . Further such relationships also may vary depending on accessor device information such as accessor device identifier a role of accessor device and or a user of accessor device an entity associated with an accessor device such as a company name a login information associated with an accessor device a security or encryption mechanism associated with an accessor device etc. Privilege establishment module may store these relationships for each of a plurality of accessee devices in an access control database . As noted above the privileges available to be granted with respect to each accessee device and or each device resource may vary from one AE to another for example when delegation of privileges is implemented in system .

Additionally credential management module may further include a verification module to confirm which of the plurality of access privileges may be granted to a respective accessor device and or subordinate authorization entity as issued access privileges . Verification module may operate in response to credential request or based on the actions of a user of AE to assign access credential and or subordinate credential. For example verification module may verify an identity of accessor device and or subordinate authorization entity such as based on information contained with credential request and or may confirm allowable ones of the plurality of access privileges to be granted to a unilaterally proposed accessor device . For example during credential acquisition authenticating accessor device may allow for control and traceability of which and how many devices are accessed by which personnel. In the case of on line servers for example two factor authentication of accessor devices may be implemented using for example RSA SecurId Token verification which requires on line access to an appropriate authentication server.

Further credential management module may further include a credential generator operable to generate access credential and or subordinate credential including applying access entity AE private key to access credential to form AE digital signature and optionally attaching AE credential . It should be noted that AE private key may be validated by corresponding AE public key . Credential generator may then be further operable to initiate transmission via communications module of access credential to a respective accessor device .

In some aspects the communication channel between AE and accessor device for example including network may utilize a secure communication protocol such as Secure Socket Layer SSL to protect the contents of access credential transmitted to accessor device .

Additionally in some aspects credential management module may be operable to maintain an access log which may store information related to communications with accessor device and or accessee device and or subordinate authorization entities. For example access log may provide an audit trail of credential requests and transmitted access credentials as well as established relationships between access privileges and device resources with respect to each accessee device. As noted above similar logs may be maintained by accessee device and or accessor device and or subordinate authorization entities in order to correlate actions within system thereby potentially identifying security leaks within system .

Referring to one aspect of a message flow within system provides accessor device with predetermined privileges to perform normally restricted actions on accessee device . At optional Event accessor device may transmit a message that includes a credential request to AE or to a subordinate AE having credentials and privileges delegated from a master AE. The credential request message may further include additional accessor device related information. For example a password and or passcode data identifying accessor device data identifying one or more accessee devices data identifying one or more desired privileges and or data identifying desired actions to perform on each respective accessee device or with respect to each device resource. In some aspects the accessor device logs onto an AE with a username password combination which is then authenticated using password authentication logic. Upon being authenticated the accessor device may transmit an access credential request to acquire an access credential for a respective accessee device and or a respective device resource.

Communication with AE may be made over network for example using a commercially available web browser residing on the accessor device . Secure communications may be enabled by use of a secure protocol such as HTTPS including a username password exchange mechanism.

At Event AE may generate access credential by execution of credential management module either upon receipt of the credential request message or upon independent operation as directed by a user. For example AE may execute credential management module as discussed above to process credential request verify accessor device and or the requested actions privileges and or generate access credential .

In one or more alternative aspects such as when AE does not include the proper mechanisms and or the authority to grant a request for access credentials AE may either forward credential request to another network entity e.g. a higher level subordinate AE and or the master AE or request additional mechanisms or authority from another network entity with greater authority. This process is illustrated in at Events and . For example in order to generate a dynamically generated short term credential compatible with the runtime environment e.g. BREW of the accessee device AE accesses authorization policies that relate to the granting of privileges. Accordingly as illustrated by Events and if the AE does not include the proper policies privileges it cannot itself generate credential and thus it may connect to a specific authorization entity such as a higher level subordinate or such as the master AE within the carrier authorization infrastructure and issue a request for the respective credential. As not all privileges policies may be available on all servers carrier authorization infrastructure may include multiple servers including a root Certificate Authority CA e.g. the master authorization entity and one or more other trusted CAs e.g. the subordinate authorization entities that each may provide a subset of different policies e.g. debugging voicemail and content transfer etc.

For example at optional Event AE may transmit a credential request message to authorization infrastructure which may include requests for additional mechanisms and or authority. The credential request that is transmitted at Event may be a forwarding of the credential request originally transmitted from the accessor device to AE or the credential request may be a newly generated message for example which may additionally include requests for additional mechanisms authority to process credential request .

Further for example at optional Event authorization infrastructure analyzes the received credential request message generates access credentials and or provides additional mechanisms authority to process the credential request . At optional Event authorization infrastructure transmits a credential request response message back to AE . The credential request response message of Event may include access credential a notification of the result of the analysis at event such as a denial of credential request and or additional mechanisms and or authority for use by AE to perform event as discussed above. The access credential response message may include an indication of the granted privileges and may be digitally signed to guarantee both the integrity of the data and the authenticity of the sender. Digital signatures may be sent with or without first encrypting the message. If the link between the authorization infrastructure and AE is secure as when using a HTTPS established connection or if the validity period of the certificate is extremely short the digitally signed access credential may not be encrypted.

In some optional aspects encryption module running on the AE verifies a hash associated with an encrypted received access credential for example via the public key of the CA. If the received hash is verified then the AE knows the credential has not been modified and that it was sent by the owner of the private key e.g. the CA.

The access credential may include data fields and may be formatted as described above. In addition the access credential may include a list of privileges granted by the CA.

At Event AE transmits a message to accessor device the message including the access credential and optionally the AE credential or some reference thereto or in some aspects the denial of a requested credential. Thus AE thereby grants accessor device with one or more predetermined access privileges from a plurality of available access privileges corresponding to one or more of the plurality of device resources and in some aspects with respect to a given accessee device .

At Event accessor device may establish communication with accessee device such as via network and or connection and forward access credential and optionally AE credential to accessee device in an attempt to gain access to one or more of the plurality of device resources of accessee device . Further such communication may be established with respect to a predetermined one of a plurality of communication interfaces of accessee device which may be relevant to whether or not access is granted. Generally a physically connected local path e.g. connection via a hard wired USB port does not need integrity protection or encryption for the bulk transfer of data. Local hardwired paths may not need an authentication protocol that can defend against man in the middle scenarios e.g. zero knowledge proof . Accordingly an accessor device connected to the accessee device via a remote path may require SSL or equivalent whereas an accessor device communicating with accessee device over a local path may implement a much simpler authentication and or encryption method.

At optional Event the authorization module may be transmitted from the accessor device to the accessee device if the accessee device is lacking such a module. In some aspects the authorization module is transmitted in unison with the transmission of access credentials however in alternate aspects the authorization module may be communicated from the accessor device or from another network device at any point in time. As discussed previously the accessee device may be preconfigured at manufacture or point of sale with the authorization module and as such there may be no need to communicate the authorization module to the accessee device .

When communicating with the accessee device over non secure access paths the downloading device in this instance accessor device may act as a secure socket layer SSL server. Accordingly accessor device opens a connection to the accessee device listens for SSL requests and negotiates SSL. The forwarding of access credential Event or the communication of the authorization module Event may include a command to the accessee device such as a reboot command causing the device to discover and install the access authorization module .

Once the access authorization module is installed on the accessee device either as part of the original installation or as part of the download procedure described above the access authorization module is operable to receive communications from accessor device that may include access credential that allow accessor device to perform otherwise restricted actions on the accessee device .

At Event accessee device authenticates verifies the access credential by validating the AE digital signature with the corresponding AE public key and by verifying issued privileges with respect to AE credential . Further accessee device verifies the identity of accessor device based on accessor public key . The authentication process may result in accessor device and or access credential being authenticated or authenticated in part thereby causing accessee device to accept access credential and allow access to one or more device resources according to one or more issued access privileges within the approved scope based on AE credential e.g. if the privileges in the access credential are less than or equal to the scope of privileges in the AE credential. Alternatively the authentication process may result in accessor device and or access credential being denied authentication in which case the access credential is not accepted and access is denied to the one or more device resources . At Event the accessee device communicates a notification message that represents a result of the authentication process such as an authenticated result an authenticated in part result or a not authenticated result.

At Event if the accessor device receives a notification message indicating that the access credential has been authenticated or authenticated in part then access module may generate a request including an access action . For example access logic may receive inputs via input device representative of requested action from a user of accessor device in order to generate request . At Event request is transmitted to accessee device .

At Event accessee device inspects request received from the accessor device to insure that each requested action included in request falls within the scope of at least one issued privilege . For example each respective device resource corresponding to requested action or access authorization module may implement action control functions. For example control functions include each respective device resource or control module operating to reference access control database and compare requested action with the one or more issued access privileges . At optional Event accessee device may transmit a control message to accessor device where control message communicates the result of the action control process.

Referring to in one aspect a method of accessee device insuring that interaction is occurring with the authorized accessor device for example upon an initial access attempt or upon an access attempt subsequent to authorization includes accessor device being required to prove its identity. Optionally at Event the method includes accessor device requesting access privileges to one or more device resources which may be further specified for a given accessee device . For example such a request may include assessor device forwarding accessor public key and proof of identity to AE .

At Event AE generates credential either independently or in response to the request received via Event . For example if in response to a request AE may verify the proof of identity supplied by accessor device and may further include accessor public key in the issued access credential .

At Event accessor device receives access credential and generates a message to send to accessee device .

At Event through access module accessor device forwards the message including access credential to accessee device . Optionally the message may include AE credential and or some reference thereto.

At Event accessee device receives the message and access credential verifies access credential and then generates a response message to verify the identity of accessor device . For example the response message may include a nonce or some other random data which is transmitted to accessor device at Event .

At Event accessor device signs the nonce or random data with accessor private key and sends this information back to accessee device at Event .

At Event accessee device decrypts the signed nonce or random data with accessee public key for example which was included in the verified access credential . If the decrypted nonce or random data matches the original nonce or random data from Event then accessee device has proof of the identity of accessor device and further exchange can occur. If there is no match then the identity of accessor device is not verified and access to device resources will not be allowed.

At Event accessee device sends accessor device a message confirming the proof of identity or denying confirmation.

At Event if the identity of accessor device is proven then interaction with one or more device resources may occur according to one or more access privileges within verified access credential .

It should be noted that after an initial identity verification and approval of access credential further access attempts may be carried out after performing some portion of the above process relating to the proof of identity e.g. the access credential may not need to be re submitted every time.

Thus this aspect of the method allows accessee device to confirm that it is dealing with the proper accessor device who was issued access credential . It should be noted however that other methods may be utilized to confirm the identity of accessor device .

Referring to a flow diagram is provided for a method of obtaining at an accessor device access to accessee device resources. It should be understood that the listed ordering of acts is for the sake of explanation and such acts may occur in any order. At optional Event a request is made to an authorization entity for access credentials. The authorization entity may be a master AE or a subordinate AE having authority privileges delegated from the master. The request may additionally include additional accessor device related information such as password and or passcode data identifying accessor device data identifying one or more accessee devices and or data identifying desired actions to perform each respective accessee device. The request for access credentials is an optional event because in some aspects access credentials may be communicated to the accessor device without the need to transmit a request.

At Event an access credential is received such as an access credential granted by an authorization entity. As previously noted the access credential may be received in response to a request or AE and or authorization infrastructure may unilaterally grant and issue access credential to accessor device . Alternatively AE may pre load one or more access credentials on a device. Also alternatively an access credential identifier may be received instead of the actual access credential. The access credential may include one or more access privileges and an AE digital signature used by the accessee device in authenticating the access credentials. At Event the access credential and optionally the respective AE credential or a reference thereto is transmitted such as for purposes of attempting access to the accessee device. For example in one aspect communication is established with accessee device such as via network and or connection and access credential is forwarded to accessee device in an attempt to gain access to one or more of the plurality of device resources of accessee device . The communication that is established may be with respect to a predetermined one of a plurality of communication interfaces of accessee device which may be relevant to whether or not access is granted. Alternatively at Event the access credential identifier may be transmitted instead of the actual access credential.

At optional Event an authorization module may be received from an authorization entity. For example in some aspects the accessee device may not already have access authorization module for evaluating the received access credential and if accessor device is not pre loaded with an access authorization module accessor device may receive this module for example from AE and or from authorization infrastructure . In turn at optional Event the authorization module may be transmitted to the accessee device . In alternate aspects the authorization module may be communicated to the accessee device directly from the AE or from authorization infrastructure . As previously noted the authorization module may be received by the accessee device at any point in time prior to validating access credentials and not necessarily in the order discussed above. For example prior to transmitting access credential accessor device may learn that accessee device desires access authorization module and thus accessor device may transmit the module prior to or along with the transmission of the credential.

At Event the result of the access authorization is received. The result of the access authorization will either indicate that authorization has been granted granted in part or that authorization has been denied. If the access credential authorization has been granted or granted in part then at Event a request to interact access may be generated and transmitted to the accessee device . For example user inputs may be received via communications module representative of a requested action in order to generate request .

At optional Event a request result and or an acknowledgment may be received. Request result may include information related to the processing of requested action by a respective one of the plurality of device resources . For example request result may identify one or any combination of the action requested one or more of the plurality of device resources associated with the interaction and or a result of the requested action.

Referring to a flow diagram is provided for a method of granting device resource access at an accessee device according to one aspect. At optional Event an authorization module is received and loaded. As previously noted the authorization module may be communicated from accessor device AE or any other networked device at any point in time prior to authorizing access credentials. In alternate aspects the authorization module may be preconfigured at the time of manufacture or at the point of sale.

At Event an access credential is received. At minimum the access credential will include one or more access privileges associated with one or more device resources and a digital signature associated with AE . In some aspects it should be noted that an access credential identifier may be received and the receiving of the access credential may be based on retrieving the access credential from a location or network device identified in the access credential identifier. At Event the access credential is authorized verified by for example validating the AE digital signature with an AE public key by verifying the scope of the issued privileges with respect to AE credential and optionally by verifying the identity of accessor device and the results of the authorization are transmitted to the accessor device .

Once authorization is granted and a related verification notification has been transmitted to the accessor device then at Event requests for access interaction may be received from accessor device and subsequently validated. Validation of the request is needed to insure that accessor device is provided access within the bounds of the one or more issued access privileges included in an authenticated access credential . For example validation may include referencing access control database to compare the interaction access requested with the one or more device resources with which interaction is allowed based on the one or more issued access privileges . At optional Event a validation result may be generated and transmitted to accessor device informing accessor device of the results of the request validation.

At Event once the request for access interaction has been validated the requested interaction with the device resource is performed based on the request. Examples of interaction include but are not limited to utilizing authorized debugging tools and performing device maintenance functions such as provisioning and reconfiguration of a wireless device managing an address book for synchronization utilities file system access uploading and or downloading of content e.g. pictures music ringers etc. and transferring of data between devices. At optional Event a request result or acknowledgement may be generated and transmitted to accessor device in response to request . Request result may include information related to the processing of the request for access interaction. For example request result may identify one or any combination of the action requested one or more of the plurality of device resources associated with the interaction and or a result of the requested action.

The apparatus and methods disclosed above presents a controlled mechanism for providing an unknown first computing device with privileged access to a second computing device such as a wireless handset. For example the apparatus and methods discussed herein may be used to allow the first device with the ability to copy content from the second device for transfer to a new device and or to transfer new content onto the second device. Further for example the apparatus and methods discussed herein may allow the first device to perform restricted system configuration management functions on the second device. Additionally for example the apparatus and methods discussed herein may allow first device to access and manipulate private user data and or network configuration data stored on second device. Further it should be understood that many other scenarios may be implemented to utilize the authorized access functionality provided by the present apparatus and methods.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules processors and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An example storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be all or part of a computer program product. Further in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may be embodied in one or more modules of one or more processors.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or aspects as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or aspect may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or aspect unless stated otherwise.

