---

title: Temporal user engagement features
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for indexing content based upon index features (e.g., temporal features, user engagement features, and/or outlier features), and/or for providing content within a search result interface based upon such index features and/or rankings. For example, user reaction data associated with content (e.g., a microblog message, a social network post, etc.) may be evaluated to generate a user engagement feature that may be constrained to a time window feature (e.g., the number of shares of a message within the first 10 minutes from publication of the message) to create an index feature for indexing the content within a content index. Responsive to the index feature corresponding to a search query, the content may be provided with search results for the search query. For example, the content may correspond to trending or breaking news associated with the search query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646032&OS=09646032&RS=09646032
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09646032
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131024
---
Users may communicate information in a variety of different manners. In an example a user may post a microblog message through a messaging social network from a mobile device e.g. the user may create the microblog message about a videogame convention that the user may be attending . In another example a user may share a picture through an image sharing service from a personal computer. Other users may experience and or interact with such content. For example a second user may comment on the picture and or may share the microblog message so that followers of the second user may also read the microblog message.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for indexing content based upon temporal features and user engagement features and or for providing content within a search result interface based upon index features are provided. Content may correspond to a variety of data such as a microblog message an image a video social network data e.g. a social network event a social network message a social network profile etc. a social network post venue information e.g. a description of a fishing harbor or museum entity information e.g. a description of a celebrity a description of a company etc. and or a variety of other information.

In an example the content may be indexed based upon user engagement features e.g. a user may engage with content by replying to the content commenting on the content sharing the content with others rating the content emailing the content viewing the content experiencing the content etc. . In another example the content may be indexed based upon temporal features such as user engagement during a first time span e.g. user engagement may be evaluated during the first 10 minutes after the content is published which may indicate how interesting e.g. hot fresh adoption rate etc. the content may be to users a second time span e.g. user engagement may be evaluated during the past 10 minutes which may indicate whether the content is still interesting to users e.g. fresh vs. stale and or other time spans. In another example the content may be indexed based upon outlier features e.g. a microblog message of a user may receive abnormally high user engagement relative to other content by the user thus indicating that the microblog message may comprise relatively interesting and or useful information such as breaking news . In this way indexed content may be provided with search results e.g. a microblog message relevant to a search query may be presented with search results for the search query based upon the microblog message having a ranking above a threshold indicating that the microblog message comprises fresh and or highly engaging content and or as supplement content through suggestions e.g. secondary content entities people places events breaking news or other information may be identified from indexed content and provided to users .

In an example of indexing content user reaction data associated with content of an author maybe evaluated to generate a user engagement feature for the content. The user engagement feature may describe how users engaged with the content e.g. a raw count a mean an average and or a standard deviation of replies comments shares the summation of the number of followers of users who shared the content the summation of the ratios of the number of followers of users who shared the content in relation to the number of followees of such users etc. . The user engagement feature may be constrained to a time window feature e.g. a first 10 minutes after creation of the content the last 10 minutes since receiving a search query used to identify the content for display with search results for the search query etc. to generate an index feature for the content. Other features such as outlier features e.g. the content may receive abnormally high user attention with respect to other content by the author may be identified for inclusion within the index feature. In this way the index feature may be assigned to the content for indexing within a content index.

In an example of providing content within a search result interface a search query may be received e.g. best time to go to the video game convention this week . A search feature associated with the search query may be identified e.g. a video game convention topic determined by a query classifier . The content index may be queried using the search feature to identify content assigned an index feature corresponding to the search feature and or having a ranking above a threshold indicating that the content is fresh and or popular e.g. a ranking based upon a time window feature indicating freshness a user engagement feature and or an outlier feature indicating popularity . In this way the content may be provided within a search result interface for the search query e.g. provided through a sidebar interface provided in line between search results interspersed amongst search results displayed through an operating system search interface such as a search charm etc. . In another example the content may be provided as an interactive histogram corresponding to the time window feature and or displaying user engagement data e.g. a histogram of shares by users during a time span of the time window feature .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

An embodiment of indexing content based upon temporal features and user engagement features is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. In an example an author may generate content that may be experienced by other users e.g. the author may publish a microblog message about a video game convention that the author is currently attending . Other users may reply to the content share the content rate the content comment on the content and or experience the content e.g. a social network friend of the author may share the microblog message with followers of the social network friend . Such user engagement may be captured as user reaction data associated with the content.

At the user reaction data may be evaluated to generate a user engagement feature for the content. In an example the user engagement feature corresponds to the number of users that engaged with the content e.g. shared the microblog message replied to the microblog message etc. . In an example the user engagement feature corresponds to the summation of ratios of the number of followers of users that engaged with the content to the number of friends of these users e.g. such that the user engagement feature takes into account social network influence of the sharing user the more followers friends a user has the more influential the user is . In an example the user engagement feature corresponds to the summation of the ratios of the number of followers of users that engaged with the content to the number of followees of these users e.g. if a sharing user has a large number of followers but a small number of followees then the sharing user may have substantial social network influence compared to a second sharing user that has a large number of followers and a large number of followees indicating that the second sharing user may have a large number of followers merely due to courtesy follower requests in response to the second sharing user following others . In this way the user engagement feature may correspond to a variety of metrics associated with users engaging with content of the author.

At the user engagement feature may be constrained to a time window feature to generate an index feature for the content. In an example the time window feature comprises a first time window corresponding to a first time span from creation of the content to an initial impression time threshold e.g. the first 10 minutes after creation publishing of the microblog message may indicate how receptive interested a social network community may be to subject matter of the microblog message . The time window feature may comprise any number or type of time windows such as a second time window corresponding to a second time span from a search query identification time back to a freshness time threshold e.g. the microblog message may be relevant to a search query such that the microblog message may be provided with search results for the search query and thus the second time window may correspond to a last 10 minutes before receiving the search query in order to determine whether the microblog message is still interesting .

In an example a variety of other features may be generated for inclusion within the index feature for the content. For example a set of content by the author may be evaluated to determine calculated user engagement data associated with the author e.g. a mean a standard deviation and or other calculated values of user engagement such as the number of shares comments replies views of content by the author during the past 4 months of content created by the author . The user reaction data for the content e.g. the number of shares for the microblog message may be evaluated against the calculated user engagement data e.g. calculated values of content created by the author in the past 4 months to determine an outlier feature for the content. The outlier feature may be indicative of whether the microblog message receives average user engagement or abnormally high user engagement with respect to how users react to other content by the author. For example a celebrity may create a breakfast message about eating breakfast which may be shared 2 million times. However the 2 million shares may not be indicative of how interesting or useful the content of the breakfast message may be and thus the 2 million shares may be compared with calculated user engagement data for other messages by the celebrity e.g. an average of 2.5 million shares . Thus the 2 million shares of the breakfast message compared with the 2.5 million average shares may indicate that the breakfast message does not comprise interesting content. In another example a user may create a plane crash message that receives 2 000 shares. When comparing the 2 000 shares of the plane crash message with an average of 15 shares for the user the 2 000 shares may indicate that the plane crash message comprises interesting information.

At the index feature may be assigned to the content for indexing the content within a context index. In an example a plurality of content associated with a variety of authors within the context index may be ranked based upon index features. For example a relatively high rank for content may indicate that the content may comprise relatively interesting or useful information e.g. fresh content engaging content popular content etc. which may be provided with search results used to identify supplemental content e.g. secondary content people places events entities and or other trending newsworthy information and or displayed through various interfaces such as a histogram.

In an example of utilizing content within the content index a search query may be received such as through a search interface e.g. what companies will be at the video game convention . A search feature associated with the search query may be identified e.g. a video game convention topic . The content index may be queried using the search feature to identify corresponding content based on an index feature of the content corresponding to the search feature of the search query. For example the microblog message about a video game convention may be identified as corresponding to the video game convention topic and or may be identified based upon the microblog message having a ranking above a threshold that may indicate that the microblog message may be fresh e.g. based upon a time window feature corresponding to the last 10 minutes of user engagement for the microblog message before the search query was identified and or interesting informative e.g. based upon a user engagement feature and or an outlier feature indicating a threshold number of users and or users having social network influence engaged with the microblog message . The microblog message may be provided within a search result interface for the search query. In an example the microblog message may be provided within a side bar interface. In another example the microblog message may be provided in line such as between a first search result and a second search result of search results for the search query.

In an example of utilizing content within the content index outlier features may be evaluated to identify a topic that may be trending and or breaking news e.g. an outlier feature above a threshold may indicate that a marathon message of an author may comprise information that may be relatively more interesting to users in relation to other content by the author . Supplemental information associated with the topic may be identified e.g. images race information course information news articles racer biography and or other information about the marathon may be identified retrieved and or included as the supplemental information e.g. . The supplemental information may be provided as a suggestion. For example the suggestion may be provided based upon a variety of triggers e.g. a user having an interesting in running a user having a calendar entry about running a user having a current location near the marathon course a user having a social network profile indicative of the user having an interest in running or watching others run etc. . In this way content may be indexed and or utilized based upon various temporal features user engagement features and or outlier features. At the method ends.

In an example of determining an outlier feature for an author an outlier formula may be applied to messages of the author. For example the outlier formula corresponds to feature mean standard deviation where the feature corresponds to among other things user engagement for a particular piece of content within a time window e.g. a feature corresponds to the number of shares of a new microblog message and or where the mean and standard deviation correspond to a historical mean and standard deviation regarding messages of the author within a particular time window. For example where within a 24 time window a first microblog message of the author is shared 1 time a second microblog message of the author is shared 2 times a third microblog message of the author is shared 3 times and a fourth microblog message of the author is shared 4 times the mean is 2.5 e.g. 10 shares 4 messages and the standard deviation is 1.29099. Where a first new message from the author is shared 20 times within a particular time window e.g. within 10 minutes after the message was initially sent the outlier formula provides an outlier feature of 13.555 based upon 20 2.5 1.29099. Where a second new message from the author is merely shared 1 time within a particular time window e.g. within 10 minutes after the message was initially sent the outlier formula provides an outlier feature of 1.162 based upon 1 2.5 1.29099. The larger the outlier feature the more interesting the message is likely to be thus the first new message is probably more interesting than the second new message. In this way if user engagement for a particular piece of content by the author is relatively larger e.g. a value for the feature is relatively large such as 20 than the mean and standard deviation of user engagement for a sampling of content by the author e.g. mean of 2.5 and standard deviation of 1.29099 then the particular piece of content may be relatively more interesting than the usual content by the author e.g. the larger the outlier feature the more interesting the content may be compared to other content by the user .

In another example of determining an outlier feature a set of users U u u . . . u that engaged with content t is identified. The number of followers that user uhas is represented by f 1

An embodiment of providing content within a search result interface based upon index features is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. A content index e.g. content index of may comprise a plurality of content by various authors that may be indexed and or ranked based upon index features such as outlier features user engagement features time window features and or other features. In an example a user engagement feature may be constrained to one or more time spans of a time window feature e.g. user reactions to a social network post within the first 10 minutes since publishing of the social network post . In another example the outlier feature may correspond to user reaction to content compared with user reaction to a set of content by the author. The content index may be utilized to identify content that may be provided through a search result interface e.g. fresh and or popular content .

At a search query may be received e.g. why is my oak tree dying may be received from a Cleveland resident . At a search feature associated with the search query may be identified e.g. an oak tree health topic . At the content index may be queried using the search feature to identify content e.g. a social network post regarding how an author saw an airplane spray a fog of chemicals over trees in Cleveland having an index feature corresponding to the search feature. In an example the index feature may indicate that the social network post has a rank above a threshold e.g. the rank may indicate that the social network post comprises information that may have a relatively high interest to users such as breaking news and or trending information . Accordingly at the content may be provided within a search result interface for the search query. In an example the social network post may be provided within a side bar interface. In another example the social network post may be provided in line such as between a first search result and a second search result of search results for the search query. At the method ends.

In an example the content provider component may receive the search query e.g. San Francisco plane submitted through a search interface . A search feature associated with the search query may be identified e.g. a query classifier may provide the content provider component with the search feature such as a San Francisco airplanes topic . The content provider component may query the content index using the search feature to identify content A as having an index feature corresponding to the search feature and or having a ranking above a threshold. The content provider component may provide the content A within a search result interface for the search query. For example the search result interface may comprise search results and a side bar interface comprising the content A . Content A may comprise a social network post with an image about a plane crash in San Francisco which may have received a substantial amount of user engagement within the first time window e.g. indicating a relatively high initial impression and or within the second time window e.g. indicating that subject matter is still relevant and or fresh .

In an example the content provider component may receive the search query e.g. UFO information submitted through a search interface . A search feature associated with the search query may be identified e.g. a query classifier may provide the content provider component with the search feature such as a UFO topic . The content provider component may query the content index using the search feature to identify content C as having an index feature corresponding to the search feature and or having a ranking above a threshold. The content provider component may provide the content C within a search result interface for the search query. For example the search result interface may comprise the content C inserted between a flying saucer club search result and an area top secret documents search result of search results for the search query . Content C may comprise a social network post with an image about a UFO landing in NYC which may have received a substantial amount of user engagement within the first time window e.g. indicating a relatively high initial impression and or within the second time window e.g. indicating that subject matter is still relevant and or fresh . A location within the search results to insert the content may be determined by comparing the content to other search results e.g. temporal considerations freshness considerations relevance considerations veracity considerations etc. .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

