---

title: System and method for electric vehicle battery charging
abstract: Systems and methods that facilitate the charging of an electric vehicle battery while avoiding electric grid peak load difficulties are discussed. One such method may include generating charge instructions based on a historical load profile, forecast load profile, historical weather data, and/or forecast weather data, in the absence of real-time grid condition information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09401610&OS=09401610&RS=09401610
owner: HONDA MOTOR CO., LTD.
number: 09401610
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130919
---
Electric vehicles including battery electric vehicles and plug in hybrid electric vehicles provide a new opportunity to reduce oil consumption by drawing power from the electric grid. As electric vehicle ownership continues to expand the load on the power grid will increase and power consumption patterns will be altered. Even a low level of electric vehicle adoption could strain the electric infrastructure particularly in residential areas where as much as eighty to ninety percent of electric vehicle charging is expected to occur. The habits of electric vehicle owners could pose a challenge for electricity providers.

Electric vehicles are likely to have a more significant effect on the electric distribution network than on the generation or transmission systems. The distribution system moves power from the transmission system to end use customers and includes local distribution lines transformers and other equipment to transform high voltage power into the lower voltage power carried to electric customers. Clustering of plug in electric vehicles in residential neighborhoods could potentially necessitate the replacement of equipment in the power distribution system. Smaller residential transformers could exceed their design limits if multiple plug in electric vehicles operate on a single transformer.

Practically speaking electricity cannot be easily stored on a large scale. As a result supply and demand must remain in balance in real time. Traditionally utilities have leveraged peaking power plants to increase power generation to meet demand. Demand response works from the other side of the equation instead of adding more generation to the system energy users are offered incentives to reduce consumption. Demand response entails customers changing their normal consumption patterns in response to changes in the price of energy over time or to incentive payments designed to induce lower electricity use when prices are high or system reliability is in jeopardy.

Utilities pay for demand response capacity because it is typically less costly and easier to procure than traditional generation. Demand response allows energy users of all kinds to add stability to the power grid by voluntarily lowering their demand for electricity. By aligning the available supply of electricity with the value of electricity to customers at a given point in time demand response programs increase the efficiency of electricity production. However to fully harness the benefits associated with demand response programs customers need access to real time information from the utility. When communications between the utility and the customer are unavailable the benefits associated with demand response systems are greatly diminished.

Electric vehicle adoption will have a significant impact on utilities and the power grid. It is important that electric vehicle charging be managed to avoid peak load problems and to help keep the power grid stable.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of certain aspects of the disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure. It is not intended to identify key critical elements of the disclosure or to delineate the scope of the disclosure. Its sole purpose is to present certain concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The disclosure disclosed and claimed herein in one aspect thereof includes systems and methods that facilitate the charging of an electric vehicle battery while avoiding electric grid peak load difficulties in the absence of current e.g. real time electric grid condition information. One such method may include the acts of coupling an electric vehicle battery to a power source utilizing a charger and generating charge instructions based on a historical load profile historical temperature data and or historical solar load data and providing the charge instructions to the charger. The charge instructions may be calculated in the absence of real time grid load data. Such a method may also include the acts of basing charging instructions on a temperature and solar load forecast instead of historical data when the temperature or solar load forecast varies from the historical temperature data by a predetermined amount.

In another aspect the disclosure may include systems for charging an electrical vehicle battery in the absence of utility demand response or present electric grid condition data for example when utility demand response or electric grid condition data are unavailable. One example system may include a battery charger coupled to a power source for supplying power to the rechargeable battery a database including historical load profile historical and forecast temperature data and historical and forecast solar load data a charging control component in communication with the battery charger and the database charging instructions generated by the charging control component and provided to the battery charger. The charging instructions may be based on the historical load profile historical and or temperature data and historical and or forecast solar load data.

Utilizing the disclosed system and methods a strategy for charging an electric vehicle battery may be generated taking into account a calculated electric grid condition when real time grid condition or demand response information is unavailable.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the disclosure are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the disclosure may be employed and the disclosure is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description of the disclosure when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. It may be evident however that the disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the disclosure.

As used in this application the terms component and system are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server may be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

For the purposes of this disclosure the term electric vehicle EV refers to most any vehicle that uses electricity stored in a rechargeable battery or battery packs to drive or contribute to driving the wheels wherein the battery may be recharged from an external source of electricity. Further the term electric vehicle EV is intended to be inclusive of any of a battery electric vehicle BEV plug in hybrid electric vehicle PHEV and plug in vehicle PEV . For the purposes of this disclosure the terms EV PEV BEV and PHEV are used interchangeably.

For the purposes of this disclosure the terms vehicle owner vehicle operator driver and user are used interchangeably to refer to a user of the system and method. While in many instances the vehicle owner driver and or user may be the same entity it is to be appreciated that other users may make use of all or a portion of the features of the disclosed system and method.

Many factors affect the cost of providing electricity to the end user. One factor that the end user may do the most to control is the user s contribution to how much energy is being used. Different types of customers use different amounts of energy at different times of the day or days of the week. For example many small commercial users are closed on weekends while many residential customers might use even more energy over the weekend than they do during the week.

Electric utilities develop and maintain average hourly load profiles for typical customers representing broad customer classes. For example a utility may make load profile data for residential agricultural industrial and commercial territories available to the public. The profiles may exhibit the pattern of average customer energy use over different hours of the day and different days of the week.

Historical load profile data may include data related to electricity demand and may include for example hourly kW data loads variation in the electrical load versus time. In an example historical load profile data table rows contain data for one day including year month day day of week and twenty four hourly average load per customer in kW usage values. Historical load profile data is available from utility companies in a variety of formats including spreadsheet .csv files and the like. Historical load profile data may include measurements of a customer s electricity over a period of time that shows how much and when the customer uses electricity. Load profiles may be used by suppliers and transmission system operators to forecast electricity supply requirements and to determine the cost of serving a customer.

Weather also has a significant influence on energy use. During the summer hot weather increases the demand for electricity. This may cause the utility to purchase expensive energy supplies. During the winter cold weather will contribute to increased gas and electric usage. The average customer load profiles may be provided and updated weekly reflecting the effects of the most recent weather conditions.

For example the California Independent System Operator an independent grid operator for the bulk of the state s power grid posts current system demand and resource conditions including any emergency stage alerts. It also posts the forecast of the next day s forecasted peak demand. Utilities may base load profiles on a statistical sample designed to represent a particular customer and rate schedule. The numbers in the profiles may be hourly average demand measure in kW for a sample of customers.

While demand response programs and other smart grid technologies seek to help alleviate peak demand problems these systems depend on and include smart grid communications involving the exchange of current real time load and grid condition information. Such systems are generally ineffective when communication between the utility and the customer is slow or unavailable. The disclosed system and method for electric vehicle battery charging may generate charging instructions that reduce peak demand problems based a historical load profile and historical or forecast weather data in the absence of real time or current electric grid or load condition information.

A battery charge request is initiated for example by coupling the rechargeable battery of plug in electric vehicle to the charging system plug connector of the charger . In accordance with an embodiment charger may be an external or stand alone charger separate and apart from the plug in electric vehicle . In other embodiments charger may be built in or integral to the plug in electric vehicle . In further embodiments the charger includes electric vehicle supply equipment EVSE or electric vehicle charge station delivering electricity for the recharging the battery of plug in electric vehicle . The charger may be connected directly to the electrical system of the home utilizing a dedicated circuit. Electric service is provided by an electric service provider to the home via a residential or distribution transformer .

The electric distribution system includes substations and transformers that step electricity down to levels usable by end use customers usually 120 VAC or 240 VAC. A residential transformer is a transformer that provides the final voltage transformation in the electric power distribution system stepping down the voltage used in the distribution lines to the level used by the customer.

Residential transformers may generally service between six and eight households. The charging of a single electric vehicle battery is unlikely to pose a challenge to a residential transformer. However multiple electric vehicles charging simultaneously especially during hours of peak electric demand on the same transformer could potentially exceed the design limitations of the transformer. Data concerning the habits of electric vehicle owners indicates that residents generally tend to recharge at the same time for example when returning from work. This is also the time when many residents are also turning on air conditioning and other appliances.

Battery charging times may depend on several factors including the charging technology used the state of charge and chemistry of the battery and other conditions. Three technology classes of EV charging include Level 1 Level 2 Overnight and Level 3 Fast charging. Level 1 charging may be accomplished from a standard 120 VAC outlet and may take up to 16 hours or longer to charge a depleted battery. Level 2 charging may reduce charging time. Level 2 charging utilizes a 220 VAC fixed installation and may charge a depleted battery in 3 8 hours. Level 3 charging utilizes a 400 660 VAC fixed installation and may fully charge a depleted battery in as little as 30 minutes.

Clustering of electric vehicle chargers that is multiple EV chargers operating simultaneously on a single residential transformer may collectively draw a fairly high electric load. Residential transformers could exceed their design limitations if multiple chargers operate on a single transformer. A damaged transformer may result in a localized black out or brown out condition and would necessitate replacement of the transformer by the utility. Replacing or repairing a damaged transformer may be an expensive and time consuming undertaking considered the cost of the transformer itself and the labor involved. The disclosed system and method are useful for grid power management generally and for avoiding problems associated with multiple EV chargers operating simultaneously on a residential transformer.

Data component may be configured to receive or store data and information for use by the system . In an embodiment data component may receive and store information including data related to an electric vehicle an electric vehicle rechargeable battery battery charger electrical vehicle service equipment EVSE utility demand response data historical load profiles time date location forecast load profiles historical weather and weather forecast information. For example charge control component may access data component for data useful for generating charge instructions and notifications.

Historical load profile data may be received and stored by data component for example historical load profile data may be obtained from the appropriate utility automatically by the system . The system may discern the appropriate historical load profile taking into account global positioning sensor data for the vehicle. Historical and forecast temperature and solar load data may be obtained from for example the National Weather Service or other meteorological organization or service. Solar load is the heat from the sun that is considered when identifying the total heat load on a system. In aspects historical solar load data and forecast solar load data may be stored by data component and considered when calculating charging instructions.

The system may be configured to automatically obtain historic and forecast load profile and weather data for storage by data component . In an embodiment the system may be configured to update vehicle information load profile and weather data on a periodic basis. For example the data may be updated hourly daily weekly or monthly. The system may be configured to access data in most any manner compatible with the system. For example the system may be connected to networks . Data component may be local to the vehicle and the charging equipment may be remotely located on the user s premises or otherwise remotely located for example utilizing cloud storage or a data server connected to the Internet.

Location determining component may include most any components for obtaining and providing location related information including but not limited to global positioning sensor GPS antenna GPS receiver for receiving signals from GPS satellites and detecting location databases and database information and other associated hardware and software components. Location information related to vehicle may be used by the system to identify for example appropriate historical load profile data forecast load profile data historical weather data and weather forecast data. In an embodiment appropriate residential load profile data and local weather data are identified based on location data provided by location determining component .

The telematics component may be configured to transmit vehicle information and other data to a third party by way of a telematics channel for example. Vehicle information may be passed from data component over one or more networks for example a controller area network CAN to the telematics component for transmission. The third party may analyze the vehicle information historical load profile data and weather data and generate charging instructions via a charge control component . The telematics component may be configured to receive charging instructions from the third party. Charging instructions may be provided to the battery charger or EVSE for example via output component .

In accordance with an embodiment vehicle information passed from data component to charge control component without the use of telematics component and charging instructions are generated locally rather than by a third party. Vehicle information may include but is not limited to vehicle location time of day date charger characteristics charger capacity battery capacity battery state of charge and the like.

System may include network s for example a home area network HAN controller area network CAN the Internet an intranet and advanced metering infrastructure network AMI . The system may access the Internet to obtain for example historical load profile data forecast load profile data historical weather data weather forecast data and other data for use by the system .

Generally a vehicle may have one or more components systems units sensors or controller area networks CANs etc. A controller area network CAN may be configured to share information or enable connectivity between components of a vehicle and the system . These components often have one or more corresponding parameters. For example the electrical system of an electric vehicle may be associated with one or more rechargeable battery conditions such as battery state of charge battery capacity etc.

The system may be configured to include networks for example a home area network HAN . A residential local area network may be used for communication between the components of system and other devices within the vicinity of the home. In accordance with an embodiment the system may be configured to communicate with the battery charger or EVSE via a home area network HAN .

In an aspect a utility provider may electronically communicate for purposes including automatic meter reading demand response communications smart grid applications and outage reporting. The utility may communicate with a meter and one or more computing devices through a communications network such as an advanced metering infrastructure AMI network which may be wired wireless or a combination of wired and wireless.

Processing component may receive information from data component location determining component and other components of system for processing. For example vehicle information location time and date information may be used by processing component to access historical load profile data forecast load profile data historical weather data and weather forecast data for example via networks for storage by data component . In an embodiment processing component may identify appropriate residential load profile data and local weather data based on location data provided by location determining component .

Processing component may be configured to access vehicle information historical load profile data forecast load profile data historical weather data and weather forecast data periodically for storage by data component . In an aspect all or a portion of the data stored by data component may be updated periodically for example hourly weekly or monthly.

Weather data may include most any weather related data for example temperature data forecast temperature data solar load data forecast solar load data and the like. Weather data may include present condition information and forecast data. Forecast data may include for example short range weather forecast local weather forecast hourly or daily forecasts monthly and seasonal forecasts. Weather related forecast data may include daily maximum and minimum temperatures and anomalies for the forecast period degree day outlooks and probability of exceedance outlooks. Degree day outlooks include cooling and heating degree day data for example given as population weighted state regional and national averages. In aspects a probability of exceedance outlook provides the probability that a temperature quantity will be exceeded at a particular location for the given season at the given time for a month to a year.

Processing component may be configured to receive information related to the charging of an electric vehicle rechargeable battery and may generate a notification. A notification may be received by the output component from the processing component for delivery to the vehicle owner.

Charge control component may receive information from for example data component processing component and other components of system for processing and for generating battery charging instructions. In aspects charge control component receives vehicle information a historical load profile historical temperature data and historical solar load data from data component and generates charge instructions based on the data.

Output component is capable of receiving input from the charge control component and may provide charge instructions notifications audio visual or other output in response. The output component may be configured to output charging instructions to a battery charging or other electric vehicle service equipment EVSE .

Output component may be configured to receive notifications from the processing component and the charge control component and to provide notifications to the vehicle owner. Notifications may include sending battery charging information e.g. information related to the charging of the rechargeable battery to the vehicle owner or user for example an email a text message voicemail video message multimedia message social media message audio communication or visual indicator.

In accordance with an embodiment the system may be configured to respond to a request for information. For example a user may send a request via network to the system for information for example battery state of charge time left to full charge status of charging e.g. fast charging trickle charging charge complete charge delayed etc. . The system may respond to the user request providing information via the output component .

The system may include an override component for user control of battery charging or for overriding the charge instructions generated by the charge control component . The user may manually control charging of the battery allowing delaying reducing or preventing battery charging regardless of the charge instructions. For example the system may generate charge instructions that prevent the battery from charging. The user may access the override component to override or supersede the charging instructions to cause the battery to charge. In other embodiments the user may delay reduce prevent or otherwise control battery charging when or if the charging instructions indicate otherwise.

The override component may be implemented in hardware or software or a hardware software combination. For example the override component may include a switch at the charger or EVSE that allows for manual control of battery charging. In an embodiment the override component may include software for generating alternate charging instructions for allowing delaying reducing or stopping battery charging as desired by the user.

Method may begin at by receiving a user intiated charge request. For example the system receives a user request for charging an electric vehicle battery. In accordance with an embodiment the charge request may be initiated by connecting or plugging an electric vehicle into a charger. In an embodiment a charge request may be initiated by the user utilizing a pushbutton switch or other physical component associated with the vehicle or the charger or through the use of a software application such as a mobile app. A charge request may automatically be initiated by the system based on a predetermined set of conditions for example the charger is connected to the vehicle and the battery state of charge is less than a predetermined value. At the system begins charging the rechargeable battery and electricity flows through the charger to the vehicle battery.

At act the system communicates vehicle information to the processing component . Vehicle information may include but is not limited to vehicle location time of day date charger characteristics charger capacity battery capacity battery state of charge and the like. Components of a vehicle such as a system unit or sensor may be connected via one or more connections or one or more CANs. Information or data pertaining to or associated with vehicle components systems units sensors the rechargeable battery the charger and or charging equipment may be collected and communicated to the system. For example vehicle location information may be gathered from global positioning sensors GPS associated with the vehicle. Vehicle information may be used to calculate for example an estimated charge time in minutes and a charge amount in watt hours Wh .

At the system receives information from the electric utility or electric service provider. At act a decision of whether to continue charging the battery is made based on the vehicle information and the utility information . In an embodiment the decision whether to continue battery charging is based on real time electric load profile information an estimated charge time and charge amount.

When the battery charging decision is YES charging of the battery continues and the battery proceeds to charge. In aspects the battery is allowed to fully charge. At act a notification is sent to the user informing the user that the battery charging has completed. Sending a charge complete notification may include sending battery charging information e.g. information related to the charging of the rechargeable battery to the vehicle owner or user for example an email a text message voicemail video message multimedia message social media message audio communication or visual indicator.

When the battery charging decision is NO charging of the battery may be stopped reduced or delayed . At act a notification is sent to the user informing the user that charging of the battery has been stopped reduced or delayed. Battery charging may be interrupted or stopped completely may be reduced for example to trickle charge or may be delayed by a period of time after which the system may cause the charging to commence again. Sending a charge interrupt notification may include sending battery charging information e.g. information related to the charging of the rechargeable battery to the vehicle owner or user for example an email a text message voicemail video message multimedia message social media message audio communication or visual indicator.

Method may begin at by receiving a user intiated charge request. For example the system receives a user request for charging an electric vehicle battery. In accordance with an embodiment the charge request may be initiated by connecting or plugging the vehicle into the charger. In an embodiment a charge request may be initiated by the user utilizing a pushbutton switch or other physical component associated with the vehicle or the charger or through the use of a software application such as a mobile app. A charge request may automatically be initiated by the system based on a predetermined set of conditions for example the charger is connected to the vehicle and the estimated charge time is less than a predetermined time limit. In contrast to method method does not begin charging the rechargeable battery upon receipt of the charging request.

At act the system communicates vehicle information to the processing component . Vehicle information may include but is not limited to vehicle location time of day date charger characteristics charger capacity battery capacity battery state of charge and the like. Components of a vehicle such as a system unit or sensor may be connected via one or more connections or one or more controller area networks CANs . Information or data pertaining to or associated with vehicle components systems units sensors the rechargeable battery the charger and or charging equipment may be collected and communicated to the system. For example vehicle location information may be gathered from global positioning sensors associated with the vehicle. Vehicle information may be used to calculate for example an estimated charge time in minutes and a charge amount in watt hours Wh .

At the system receives information from the electric utility or electric service provider. At act a decision of whether to continue charging the battery is made based on the vehicle information and the utility information . In an embodiment the decision whether to continue battery charging is based on real time electric load profile r grid condition information an estimated charge time and charge amount in kWh.

When the battery charging decision is YES charging of the battery is initiated and the battery begins to charge. In aspects the battery is allowed to fully charge. At act a notification is sent to the user informing the user that the battery charge has completed. Sending a charge complete notification may include sending battery charging information e.g. information related to the charging of the rechargeable battery to the vehicle owner or user for example an email a text message voicemail video message multimedia message social media message audio communication or visual indicator.

When the battery charging decision is NO charging of the battery may be prevented initiated at a reduced charging level or delayed . At act a notification is sent to the user informing the user that charging of the battery has been prevented reduced or delayed. Battery charging may be prevented completely may be reduced for example to a trickle charge or may be delayed by a period of time after which charging may commence again. Sending a charge interrupt notification may include sending battery charging information e.g. information related to the charging of the rechargeable battery to the vehicle owner or user for example an email a text message voicemail video message multimedia message social media message audio communication or visual indicator.

Method may begin at by receiving a user intiated charge request. For example the system receives a user request for charging an electric vehicle battery. In accordance with an embodiment the charge request may the same as or similar to a charge request intiated in methods and discussed above. In contrast to methods and method may provide a charging decision in the absence of communication with the electric service provider that is without the use of real time electric gird or load information. Method may provide a charging decision in the event that communications with the utility are delayed interrupted or unavailable or real time communication cannot be established. At the system begins charging the rechargeable battery and electricity flows through the charger to the vehicle battery in response to the charge request .

At act the system communicates vehicle information to the processing component . Vehicle information may include but is not limited to vehicle location time of day date charger characteristics charger capacity battery capacity battery state of charge and the like. Components of a vehicle such as a system unit or sensor may be connected via one or more connections or one or more controller area networks CANs . Information or data pertaining to or associated with vehicle components systems units sensors the rechargeable battery the charger and or charging equipment may be collected and communicated to the system. For example vehicle location information may be gathered from global positioning sensors associated with the vehicle. Vehicle information may be used to calculate for example an estimated charge time in minutes and a charge amount in watt hours Wh .

At the system attempts to receive information from the electric utility or electric service provider. At act a decision of whether the system has received information from the utility is made. If communication with the utility is successful YES e.g. the system has received information from the electric service provider a charging decision is made based on the vehicle information and the utility information . In an embodiment the charging decision is based on real time electric load profile information an estimated charge time and charge amount.

When the battery charging decision is YES charging of the battery is initiated and the battery begins to charge. In aspects the battery is allowed to fully charge. At act a notification is sent to the user informing the user that the battery charge has completed. Sending a charge complete notification may include sending battery charging information e.g. information related to the charging of the rechargeable battery to the vehicle owner or user for example an email a text message voicemail video message multimedia message social media message audio communication or visual indicator.

When the battery charging decision is NO charging of the battery may be prevented initiated at a reduced charging level or delayed . At act a notification is sent to the user informing the user that charging of the battery has been prevented reduced or delayed.

In the event that communication with the utility is not successful NO e.g. the system has not received information from the electric service provider or is unable to exchange information with the utility the battery is allowed to continue charging . A charge complete notification is sent to the user for example when battery charging has completed.

Method may begin at by receiving a user intiated charge request. For example the system receives a user request for charging an electric vehicle battery. In accordance with an embodiment the charge request may the same as or similar to a charge request intiated in any of methods or as discussed above. In contrast to methods and method provides a charging decision in the absence of communications with the utility or when connectivity issues prevent the exchange of real time information with the electric service provider. Method may provide a charging decision in the event that communications with the utility are delayed interrupted or unavailable or real time communication with the utility cannot or has not been established. At the system begins charging the rechargeable battery and electricity flows through the charger to the vehicle battery in response to the charge request .

At act the system communicates vehicle information to the processing component . Vehicle information may include but is not limited to vehicle location time of day date charger characteristics charger capacity battery capacity battery state of charge and the like. Components of a vehicle such as a system unit or sensor may be connected via one or more connections or one or more controller area networks CANs . Information or data pertaining to or associated with vehicle components systems units sensors the rechargeable battery the charger and or charging equipment may be collected and communicated to the system. For example vehicle location information may be gathered from global positioning sensors associated with the vehicle. Vehicle information may be used to calculate for example an estimated charge time in minutes and a charge amount in watt hours Wh .

At the system attempts to receive information from the electric utility or electric service provider. At act a decision of whether the system has received information from the utility is made. If communication with the utility is successful YES e.g. the system has received information from the electric service provider a charging decision is made based on the vehicle information and the utility information . In an embodiment the charging decision is based on real time electric load profile information an estimated charge time and charge amount.

When the battery charging decision is YES charging of the battery continues and the battery charges. In aspects the battery is allowed to fully charge. At act a notification is sent to the user informing the user that the battery charge has completed. Sending a charge complete notification may include sending battery charging information e.g. information related to the charging of the rechargeable battery to the vehicle owner or user for example an email a text message voicemail video message multimedia message social media message audio communication or visual indicator.

When the battery charging decision is NO charging of the battery may be interrupted reduced or delayed . At act a notification is sent to the user informing the user that charging of the battery has been interrupted reduced or delayed. In an embodiment the notification may include additional information related to charging of the battery for example battery state of charge reason for charge interrupt estimated charge time and the like.

In the event that communication with the utility is not successful and information is not received from the utility NO e.g. the system has not received information from the electric service provider charge instructions are generated . In an embodiment communications or the exchange of grid condition load information or other information with the utility may be unavailable. In aspects real time communications may be negatively impacted by network outages packet loss speed or latency problems. The generation of charge instructions is detailed below in connection with .

When the charge instructions generated at act indicate that battery charging is allowed YES the battery continues to charge . A charge complete notification is sent to the user when battery charging has completed as discussed above in connection with any of methods and or . When the battery charging decision is NO charging of the battery may be interrupted reduced or delayed . At act a notification is sent to the user informing the user that charging of the battery has been interrupted reduced or delayed.

When communications with the utility are unavailable the method for generating charge instructions proceeds to act . At act vehicle information is received. Vehicle information may include data related to an electric vehicle an electric vehicle rechargeable battery battery charger electrical vehicle service equipment EVSE utility demand response data time date and location.

At historical data is received. In embodiments historical data has been identified by processing component based at least in part on time date and location information. Historical data may include for example data related to historical load profiles and historical weather data. In an embodiment historical data may be stored by data component and may be accessed by charge control component for use in generating the charge instructions .

At forecast data is received. In embodiments forecast data has been identified by processing component based on time date location and other information. Forecast data may include for example data related to forecast load profiles and forecast weather data. In an embodiment forecast data may be stored by data component and may be accessed by charge control component for use in generating the charge instructions .

At the charging instructions are calculated. Charging instructions may be calculated based on any of the vehicle information historical data and or weather data received at acts and or .

In accordance the charging instructions are calculated based at least in part on a historical load profile and historical weather data in the absence of real time communication with the electric service provider. A historical load profile may include any of a local residential regional load profile or most any other historical data indicating electric usage for the general or local area where the electric vehicle is located at the time the charging request is initiated.

Historical weather data may include any of historical temperature solar load and other weather or climate related data for the general or local geographic area where the electric vehicle is located at the time the charging request is initiated.

In aspects charging instructions permit charging of the rechargeable battery when historical load profile historical temperature data and historical solar load data indicate an off peak electricity usage condition is likely. In other aspects charging instructions prevent reduce or delay charging of the rechargeable battery when historical load profile historical temperature data and historical solar load data indicate that an on peak electricity usage condition is likely.

In further embodiments the charging instructions are calculated based at least in part on a historical load profile and historical weather data in the absence of real time communication with the electric service provider. Charging instructions may be based on forecast weather data instead of historical weather data when the forecast weather data differs from the historical weather data. For example charging instructions may be based on forecast temperature data rather than historical temperature data when the forecast weather data varies from the historical weather data by 2 or more.

In accordance with an embodiment the charging instructions are calculated based at least in part on a forecast load profile and forecast weather data in the absence of real time communication with the electric service provider.

In an embodiment an on peak condition refers to a period of relatively high demand for electrical energy. Off peak may refer to periods of time when demand is other than on peak. For example an on peak period may include weekdays from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. May through October.

In accordance with an embodiment charging instructions permit charging of the rechargeable battery when historical load profile forecast temperature data and or forecast solar load data indicate that electricity usage will be at less than peak levels for the time period involved in recharging the electric vehicle battery. In other aspects charging instructions prevent reduce or delay charging of the rechargeable battery when historical load profile historical temperature data and historical solar load data indicate that electricity usage is at peak levels and will remain so for several hours.

Charging instructions may include instructions that delay charging of the electric vehicle battery when any of the historical or forecast load profile data or the historical or forecast weather data indicate a peak period of electricity usage followed by an off peak period. For example a vehicle owner may arrive home from work at 6 00 pm and initiate a charge request. Based on a historical residential load profile and forecast temperature data the system calculates that a current peak energy usage period will likely be followed by an off peak period in five hours. The system generates charging instructions that allow the electric vehicle battery to commence charging at a time e.g. 11 00 pm when the system has calculated that energy usage will be lower thereby avoiding difficulties associated with overload conditions of the local residential transformer and the power grid overall.

In an embodiment charging instruction may be calculated based on data related to one or more electric vehicles connected to the same residential transformer. The charging of multiple electric vehicles connected to a single residential transformer may be coordinated so as to avoid overloading or damaging the transformer.

At act the charging instructions calculated at act are provided for example to a battery charger electric vehicle service equipment EVSE or other device or system capable of controlling charging of the electric vehicle rechargeable battery.

The system may include one or more input devices such as keyboard mouse pen audio or voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices gesture recognition module or any other input device.

In embodiments the system may include additional input devices to receive input from a user. User input devices may include for example a push button touch pad touch screen wheel joystick keyboard mouse keypad or most any other such device or element whereby a user may input a command to the system. Input devices may include a microphone or other audio capture element that accepts voice or other audio commands. For example a system might not include any buttons at all but might be controlled only through a combination of gestures and audio commands such that a user may control the system without having to be in physical contact with the system.

One or more output devices such as one or more displays or most any other output device may be included in system . The one or more input devices and or one or more output devices may be connected to system via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. System may also include one or more communication connections that may facilitate communications with one or more devices including computing devices by means of a communications network .

Communications network may be wired wireless or any combination thereof and may include ad hoc networks intranets the Internet or most any other communications network that may allow system to communicate with computing device .

Example computing devices include but are not limited to personal computers hand held or laptop devices mobile devices such as mobile phones smart phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs wearable computers such as Google Glass media players tablets and the like multiprocessor systems consumer electronics mini computers distributed computing environments that include most any of the above systems or devices and the like. Although computing device may be a smart phone for certain users of system computing device may be substantially any computing device which may include for example tablets e.g. Kindle Nook Galaxy Note iPad etc. cellular smart phones or PDAs e.g. Android iPhone Blackberry Palm etc. .

The operating environment of is one example of a suitable operating environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the operating environment. Example computing devices include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices mobile devices such as mobile phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs media players tablets and the like multiprocessor systems consumer electronics mini computers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions or modules being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In these or other embodiments system may include additional features or functionality. For example system may also include additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In certain embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

In an aspect the term computer readable media includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage cloud storage data server connected to the Internet or most any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by the computing device of system . Any such storage media may be part of system .

In an embodiment computer readable medium includes processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more embodiments of the techniques presented herein. Computer readable data such as binary data including a plurality of zero s and one s in turn includes a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions is configured to perform a method such as at least a portion of one or more of the methods described in connection with embodiments disclosed herein. In another embodiment the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least a portion of one or more of the systems described in connection with embodiments disclosed herein. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

The term computer readable media includes most any communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosure. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosure but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosure are possible. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

