---

title: Benzoheterocyclic anti-bacterial agents
abstract: Embodiments herein provide compounds and methods of making and using such compounds for prevention and treatment of multidrug resistant bacteria. In particular, embodiments are directed to anti-bacterial agents from benzo[d]heterocyclic scaffolds for prevention and treatment of multidrug resistant bacteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09617249&OS=09617249&RS=09617249
owner: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC
number: 09617249
owner_city: South Bend
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130129
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 995 437 filed Nov. 30 2010 which is a continuation of International Application No. PCT US2009 045737 filed May 29 2009 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 057 282 filed May 30 2008 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. R01 AI 054193 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments herein relate to anti bacterial agents and more specifically to anti bacterial agents from benzo d heterocyclic scaffolds for prevention and treatment of multidrug resistant bacteria.

In 2004 the IDSA Infectious Disease Society of America reported that each year 90 000 of the 2 million people who acquire a hospital bacterial infection will die. That is a 4.5 mortality rate arising from just being within the hospital. Multi drug resistance bacterial strains are a major problem and one that has been increasing very rapidly every year during the last few decades. In brief from its discovery in 1968 multi drug resistant MRSA had already accounted for greater than 50 of patient isolates by 1999 in ICUs intensive care units within the National Nosocomial Infection Surveillance NNIS System. Then by 2003 59.5 of isolates were from MRSA. Vancomycin resistant enterocci VRE has had a similar rapid rise in hospital isolates increasing from its 1990 discovery to 25 of all enterococal isolates in 1999 and then increasing further to 28.3 by 2003 in NNIS surveyed ICUs. Without the immediate discovery of new antibiotics this rise in multi drug resistant strains will continue to grow thereby putting everyone treated within hospitals at undue risk of infection and possible death.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the terms embodiment or embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments are synonymous.

Embodiments herein provide compounds and methods of making and using such compounds for prevention and treatment of multidrug resistant bacteria.

In embodiments the aryl or heteroaryl d heterocyclic derived compounds show impressive activity against multidrug resistant strains of bacteria including Methicillin resistant Methicillin RSA Vancomycin Resistant VRE and Linezolid Resistant LRE infections with potencies near or beyond that of current clinical treatments. In embodiments these compounds are also effective against and to various extents. Thus in embodiments methods of using one or more compounds described herein may be provided for the prevention and or treatment of multidrug resistant bacteria.

In accordance with an embodiment exemplary compounds may be prepared by the scheme in which illustrates a general scheme for the synthesis of various benzo d heterocyclic compounds for the treatment of multidrug resistant bacteria.

In reagents include a Oxalyl chloride CHCl catalytic N N dimethylforamide b N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EtN CHCN c EtN CHCl reflux d Acetic acid reflux e Diethylamino sulfur trifluoride KCO CHCl C. to room temp. and f p toluenesulfonic acid toluene reflux.

In an embodiment these compounds may be prepared by an EDC mediated coupling of 1 or displacement of an acid chloride 2 with 3 base and proper solvent to give an amide 4. Cyclization of the amide 4 with one of the above conditions depending on Y substituent results in heterocyclic products 5.

In compound 3 Y is H O SH SR NH NHR CHNH CHSH CHOH CHNHR CHSR. In compound 5 may comprise the following Ris H alkyl substituted alkyl including halogenated alkyl such as CF aryl and substituted aryl halogen cycloheteroalkyl such as morpholine thiomorpholine piperazine piperidine aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl nitro sulfone sulfoxide sulfamide phosphate alkylphosphate such as PO CH PO OCH boronic acid or boronic ester X is O S N or CH n 0 8 saturated or unsaturated Y is O S N or CH m 0 3 Ris H OH halogen amine COOH NHR wherein Ris as previously defined NRR alkyl substituted alkyl cycloalkyl or functionalized alkyl including alkenes alkynes alcohols epoxides ketones esters ethers aldehydes nitriles nitros thiols thioesters sulfides disulfide sulfones sulfoxides amines amides ureas carbamates cycloheteroalkyl such as morpholine thiomorpholine piperazine piperidine acyl halogenated acyl substituted acyl aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heterocylic such as furan nitrofuran thiophene nitrothiophene imidazole oxazole oxazoline thiazole thiazoline triazole pyridine pyrazine naphthalene diketopiperazine quinoline isoquinoline imidazopyridines oxazolidinone and all substitutions upon wherein Rmay be monosubstituted or polysubstituted and Z is N in the 2 3 4 or 5 positions of the phenyl ring and any combination therein with the 2 position being exemplified by the structure shown .

In embodiments compounds may be formed as a prodrug to enhance the delivery of the compound such as enhancing absorption distribution metabolism excretion etc. Suitable groups to provide a prodrug may for example entail modifying an OH group to form an O prodrug group wherein the prodrug group is one of acyl ester carbamate urea sugar or amino acid.

In embodiments various molecules as described herein have surprising activity against MRSA. One exemplary compound tested nitrofuran benzimidazole showed results against MRSA of MIC 8 M and against VRE MIC 16 M . While this particular molecule has been tested previously the present application is the first disclosure of this compound having activity against multi drug resistant super bug strains. In addition in accordance with an embodiment described herein this compound and analogs thereof may be synthesized in high yields in just a single step. Further embodiments herein provide analogs of the afore mentioned compounds and methods of making and using such compounds.

In a time of rapid and increasing resistance toward the last line antibacterial agents like Vancomycin and Linezolid it is prudent that investigation of all new leads undertaken. In an embodiment a set of analogs see were produced in order to explore potency and antimicrobial selectivity. The next generation of benzoxazole and benzthiazole derivatives as well as the effects of substitution of the benzimidazole core on antibacterial potency and selectivity were explored.

Synthesis of analogs was accomplished in a simple straightforward manner as shown in . illustrates specific examples of the syntheses used to make benzimidazoles from aldehydes benzthiazoles from nitriles and benzoxazoles from acid chlorides. Fortuitously many compounds may be made in a just one step. For instance condensation of 5 nitro 2 furaldehyde 1 where X is O or 5 nitro 2 thiophenealdehyde 1 where X is S with various diamines 2 followed by oxidation with potassium ferricyanide results in a panel of substituted benzimidazoles 3a to 3g. Next the benzthiazoles 6a and 6b may be easily prepared by an acid catalyzed cyclization of nitrile 4 and 2 aminothiophenol 5 . Finally benzoxazoles 11a and 11b may be prepared in a two step process involving coupling of easily prepared acid chloride 8 with 2 aminophenol 9 to give intermediate amide 10 which may then be cyclized with p toluenesulfonic acid in refluxing toluene.

In the reagents include a KFe CN CHOH water reflux 2 h 16 h b p TSOH ethanol reflux 16 h c Oxalyl chloride CHCl DMF drop 4 h d EtN CHCl reflux 16 h and e p TSOH toluene reflux 16 h.

In accordance with an embodiment in order to first broadly screen these compounds an agar diffusion assay was employed to determine whether these compounds have any activity against a diverse array of organisms which include MRSA and VRE. Then to follow up if a compound showed promise by having a large zone of inhibition its minimum inhibition concentration at 90 MIC would be determined for that specific organism . illustrates selectivity and potency of various benzimidazoles benzthiazoles and benzoxazoles against a panel of microorganisms including gram positive bacteria gram negative bacteria fungi yeast and mycobacteria. The minimum inhibition concentration at 90 is shown in micromolar concentration. In an embodiment the initial agar diffusion assay screen was encouraging as it hinted that many of these compounds have a broad spectrum of activity while others showed some specificity towards specific organisms. Therefore many of the compounds had their MICs determined which reflected many of the findings of the diffusion assay. illustrates the chemical structure molecular weight and chemical formula of most of the compounds of .

All the anhydrous solvents reagent grade solvents for chromatography and starting materials were purchased from either Aldrich Chemical Co. Milwaukee Wis. or Fisher Scientific Suwanee Ga. . General methods of purification of compounds involved the use of silica cartridges purchased from AnaLogix Inc. Burlington Wis. www.ana logix.com and or recrystallization. The reactions were monitored by thin layer chromatography TLC on precoated Merck 60 Fsilica gel plates and visualized using UV light 254 nm .

All compounds were analyzed for purity and characterized by H and C NMR using a Varian 300 MHz NMR and Varian 500 MHz NMR spectrometer. Chemical shifts are reported in ppm relative to the residual solvent peak and coupling constants J are reported in hertz Hz s singlet bs broad singlet d doublet dd double doublet bd broad doublet ddd double doublet of dublet t triplet tt triple triplet q quartet and m multiplet and analyzed using MestReC NMR data processing.

Mass Spectra values are reported as m z. All reactions were conducted under Argon unless otherwise noted. Solvents were removed in vacuo on a rotary evaporator. The LC MS analyses were carried out on Waters ZQ instrument consisting of chromatography module Alliance HT photodiode array detector 2996 and mass spectrometer Micromass ZQ using a 3 50 mm Pro C18 YMC reverse phase column. Mobile phases 10 mM ammonium acetate in HPLC grade water A and HPLC grade acetonitrile B . A gradient was formed from 5 to 80 of B in 10 minutes at 0.7 mL min. The MS electrospray source operated at capillary voltage 3.5 kV and a desolvation temperature 300 C. Elemental analyses were performed by Midwest Microlabs LLC Indianapolis Ind. . Yields quoted are unoptimized.

Abbreviations DCM dichloromethane DMF dimethylformamide ACN acetonitrile EtOAc ethyl acetate HOAc acetic acid EDCI N 3 Dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride DMAP 4 dimethylaminopyridine EtN triethylamine and EtOH ethanol.

5 Nitro 2 furaldehyde 1a 401 mg 2.8 mmol and 2 3 diaminophenol 2 g 300 mg 2.4 mmol were dissolved in 10 mL of methanol. Next a 5 mL aqueous solution of potassium ferricyanide 1.7 g 5.1 mmol was added and the reaction was heated to reflux for 16 hours while being exposed to air. Then the reaction was cooled filtered and the filter pad was washed with ethanol. The filtrate liquor and washings were combined and concentrated in vacuo and the residue was recrystallized from EtOH HO 80 20 to give 180 mg of 3g as a dark solid 26 after filtration. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 7.90 1 H m 7.42 1 H m 7.06 2 H m 6.59 1 H m HRMS calcd. for CHNO 246.0515 found 246.0504. LC MS Retention time 4.73 min 95 FABMS 246.4 M 1 .

5 Nitro 2 furaldehyde 1a 1.0 g 7.0 mmol and 1 2 phenylenediamine 2a 658 mg 6.0 mmol were dissolved in 15 mL of methanol. Next an 8 mL aqueous solution of potassium ferricyanide 4.2 g 12.6 mmol was added and the reaction was heated to reflux for 3 hours while exposed to air. The reaction was cooled then filtered and the filter pad was washed with ethanol. The filtrate liquor and washings were combined concentrated in vacuo and the residue was recrystallized with EtOH HO 80 20 to give 1.34 g of 3a as a red tan solid 83 after filtration. Mp 225 226 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 7.91 1 H d J 3.9 Hz 7.66 2 H m 7.48 1 H d J 3.7 Hz 7.30 2 H m HRMS calcd. For CHNO 230.0566 found 230.0561. LC MS Retention time 5.55 min 95 FABMS 230.3 M 1 .

5 Nitro 2 thiophenecarboxyaldehyde 1b 500 mg 3.1 mmol and 1 2 phenylendiamine 2a 286 mg 2.6 mmol were dissolved in 10 mL of methanol. Next a 5 mL aqueous solution of 1.57 grams of potassium ferricyanide was added and the mixture was heated to reflux for two hours. Then the reaction was cooled filtered and filter pad was washed with ethanol. The filtrate liquor and washings were combined and concentrated in vacuo and the residue was recrystallized from EtOH HO 80 20 . A dark tan solid of 3b was collected by filtration 180 mg 28 . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 8.24 1 H d J 4.4 Hz 7.84 1 H d J 4.4 Hz 7.65 2 H m 7.29 2 H m HRMS calcd. for CHNOS 246.0337 found 246.0324. LC MS Retention time 6.53 min 

5 Nitro 2 furaldehyde 1a 304 mg 2.1 mmol and 4 chloro 1 2 phenylyenediamine 2c 253 mg 1.8 mmol were dissolved in 10 mL of methanol. Next a 10 mL aqueous solution of potassium ferricyanide 821 mg 3.2 mmol was added and the reaction was heated to reflux for 16 hours with exposure to air. The reaction was cooled then filtered and the filter pad was washed with ethanol. The filtrate liquor and washings were combined and concentrated in vacuo and the residue was recrystallized from EtOH HO 80 20 to give 257 mg of 3c as a dark green solid 55 after filtration. Mp 230 235 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 7.96 7.82 1 H bs 7.76 7.57 2 H bs 7.55 7.43 1 H bs 7.37 7.23 1 H bs HRMS calcd. for CHClNO 264.0176 found 264.0189. LC MS Retention time 7.03 min 95 FABMS 264.2 M 1 .

5 Nitro 2 furaldehyde 1a 310 mg 2.2 mmol and 4 fluoro 1 2 phenylyenediamine 2d 230 mg 1.8 mmol were dissolved in 10 mL of methanol. Next a 10 mL aqueous solution of potassium ferricyanide 837 mg 3.2 mmol was added and the reaction was heated to reflux for 3 hours with exposure to air. Then the reaction was cooled filtered and the filter pad was washed with ethanol. The filtrate liquor and washings were combined and concentrated in vacuo and the residue was recrystallized from EtOH HO 80 20 to give 111 mg of 3d as a yellow green solid 25 after filtration. Mp 235 240 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 7.96 7.84 1 H bs 7.75 7.60 1 H bs 7.58 7.38 2 H bs 7.27 7.08 1 H bs HRMS calcd. for CHFNO 248.0471 found 248.0474 found. LC MS Retention time 6.07 min 95 FABMS 248.3 M 1 .

5 Nitro 2 furaldehyde 1a 306 mg 2.1 mmol and 2 3 diaminobenzoic acid 2e 281 mg 1.8 mmol were dissolved in 10 mL of methanol. Next a 5 mL aqueous solution of potassium ferricyanide 1.3 g 3.8 mmol was added and the reaction was heated to reflux for 16 hours while exposed to air. Then the reaction was cooled filtered and the filter pad was washed with ethanol. The filtrate liquor and washings were combined and concentrated in vacuo and the residue was recrystallized from EtOH HO 80 20 to give 512 mg of 3e as a brown solid 88 after filtration. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 8.22 1 H s 7.88 1 H d J 3.9 Hz 7.82 1 H d J 8.2 Hz 7.63 1 H d J 3.9 Hz 7.56 1 H d J 8.5 Hz HRMS calcd. for CHNO 274.0464 found 274.0446. LC MS Retention time 3.05 min 95 FABMS 274.3 M 1 .

5 Nitro 2 furaldehyde 1a 407 mg 2.8 mmol and 2 3 diaminotoluene 2f 300 mg 2.4 mmol were dissolved in 10 mL of methanol. Next a 5 mL aqueous solution of potassium ferricyanide 1.7 g 5.1 mmol was added and the reaction was heated to reflux for 3 hours while exposed to air. The reaction was cooled then filtered and the filter pad was washed with ethanol. The filtrate liquor and washings were combined and concentrated in vacuo and the residue was recrystallized from EtOH HO 80 20 to give 519 mg of 3f as a brown solid 75 after filtration. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 7.82 1 H d J 3.9 Hz 7.40 2 H m 7.11 1 H t J 7.6 7.6 Hz 7.01 1 H d J 6.8 Hz HRMS calcd. for CHNO 244.0722 found 244.0729. LC MS Retention time 6.32 min 95 FABMS 244.4 M 1 .

5 Nitro 2 furonitrile 4a 185 mg 1.3 mmol was dissolved in 10 mL of ethanol and then the 2 aminothiophenol 5 0.15 mL 1.4 mmol and p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 240 mg 1.3 mmol were added and the reaction was heated to 80 C. overnight. The reaction was concentrated to dryness in vacuo and then the residue was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with 10 sodium bicarbonate 2 0.5 N citric acid 2 and then satd. brine solution. The organic phase was collected and dried over sodium sulfate filtered and then concentrated in vacuo to give a dark oil. The material was purified through a silica gel column eluting with 100 DCM and product 6a was collected as a yellow tan solid 75 mg 24 . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 8.31 8.12 1H m 7.82 1 H dd J 66.5 4.0 Hz 7.69 7.53 1 H m 7.48 1 H d J 8.0 Hz 7.14 7.08 2 H m HRMS calcd. for CHNOS 247.0177 found 247.0171. LC MS Retention time 8.07 min 

5 Nitro 2 thiophenecarbonitrile 4b 206 mg 1.3 mmol was dissolved in 10 mL of ethanol and then the 2 aminothiophenol 5 0.15 mL 1.4 mmol and p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 243 mg 1.3 mmol were added and the reaction was heated to 80 C. overnight. The reaction was concentrated to dryness in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with 10 sodium bicarbonate 2 0.5 N citric acid 2 and then satd. brine solution. The organic phase was collected dried over sodium sulfate filtered and then concentrated in vacuo to give a red oil. The residual material was triturated with dichloromethane and 6b was obtained as red solid after filtration 125 mg 37 . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 8.22 1 H dd J 2.3 0.8 Hz 8.20 1 H s 8.14 8.08 1 H m 7.95 1 H dd J 4.4 0.8 Hz 7.64 7.50 2 H m HRMS calcd. for CHNOS 263.9949 found 263.9953. LC MS Retention time 9.55 min 

5 Nitro 2 furoic acid 7a 1.5 g 9.4 mmol was partly dissolved in 20 mL of dry dichloromethane. Oxayl chloride 1.8 mL 21.3 mmol was added followed by a few drops of DMF. The reaction was stirred for 4 hours then concentrated to dryness in vacuo to give intermediate acid chloride 8a as yellow oil which became solid upon standing 1.0 g 99 . 5 Nitrofuran 2 carbonyl chloride 8a 624 mg 3.5 mmol was dissolved in 10 mL of anhydrous dichloromethane and the solution was cooled to 0 C. 2 Aminophenol 9 460 mg 4.2 mmol was added followed by EtN 1.4 mL 10.5 mmol and the reaction was then allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The reaction was concentrated to dryness in vacuo then diluted with EtOAc 75 mL and washed with 0.5 N citric acid 2 10 sodium bicarbonate soln. 2 and then satd. brine. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give a yellow film. The residual material was triturated with dichloromethane and upon cooling a yellow solid of N 2 hydroxyphenyl 5 nitrofuran 2 carboxamide 10a was collected 631 mg 73 . HRMS calcd. for CHNO 249.0511 found 249.0517. N 2 Hydroxyphenyl 5 nitrofuran 2 carboxamide 10a 151 mg 0.6 mmol was dissolved in 6 mL of toluene containing p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 700 mg 3.7 mmol and the reaction was heated to reflux overnight. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo then purified through a silica gel column eluting with dichloromethane and increasing polarity to 10 EtOAc dichloromethane to collect product 11a as a yellow green solid 62 mg 44 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.87 7.81 1 H m 7.67 7.62 1 H m 7.46 4 H m HRMS calcd. for CHNO 231.0406 found 231.0423. LC MS Retention time 7.53 min 

2 Nitrothiophene 4 carboxylic acid 7b 200 mg 1.1 mmol was dissolved in 5 mL of dry acetonitrile and then the EDCI 434 mg 2.2 mmol DMAP 414 mg 3.4 mmol and 2 aminophenol 9 137 mg 1.2 mmol was added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight under argon. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo to dryness then diluted with EtOAc 75 mL and then the organic phase was washed 2 with 0.5 N citric acid 2 with aqueous 10 sodium bicarbonate and satd. brine solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give a red solid. The residue was triturated with dichloromethane to give product 10b which was collected by filtration 219 mg 73 . The crude N 2 hydroxyphenyl 5 nitrothiophene 2 carboxamide 10b 219 mg 0.83 mmol was dissolved in 6 mL of toluene containing p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 788 mg 4.14 mmol and the reaction was heated to reflux overnight. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo then purified through a silica gel column eluting with a gradient from pure dichloromethane to 5 EtOAc dichloromethane to give product 11b as an off white solid 99 mg 49 after evaporation of the solvent. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 8.58 8.55 1 H m 8.31 1 H d J 1.78 Hz 7.80 7.75 1 H m 7.63 7.56 1 H m 7.45 7.36 2 H m C NMR 126 MHz CDCl 157.26 150.41 141.47 132.12 127.02 125.97 125.15 120.37 110.75 HRMS calcd. for CHNOS 247.0177 found 247.0177. LC MS Retention time 8.35 min 

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

