---

title: Vaccine comprising Amb a 1 peptides for use in the treatment of ragweed allergy
abstract: The present invention relates to compositions for preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerization. The compositions are based on combinations of peptide fragments derived from the major allergen in ragweed pollen, Amb a 1. The invention also relates to products, vectors and formulations which may be used to provide polypeptides of the invention in combination. The invention further relates to in vitro methods for determining whether T cells recognize a polypeptide of the invention, and for determining whether an individual has or is at risk of a condition characterized by allergic symptoms in response to a ragweed allergen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09347937&OS=09347937&RS=09347937
owner: Circassia Limited
number: 09347937
owner_city: Oxford
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20130614
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 057 386 filed May 27 2011 which is a 35 U.S.C. 371 national stage filing of International Application No. PCT GB2009 001986 filed Aug. 14 2009 which claims priority to GB Application No. 0814986.6 filed Aug. 15 2008 PCT application No. PCT GB08 002781 filed Aug. 15 2008 PCT application No. PCT GB08 002779 filed Aug. 15 2008 GB Application No. 0815218.3 filed Aug. 20 2008 and EP Application No. 09251252.4 filed May 1 2009. The contents of the aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

The contents of the following priority applications are incorporated herein by reference United Kingdom Patent Application No. 0814986.6 filed 15 Aug. 2008 International Patent Application No. s PCT GB08 002781 and PCT GB08 002779 both filed 15 Aug. 2008 United Kingdom Patent Application No. 0815218.3 filed 20 Aug. 2008 and European Patent Application No. 09251252.4 filed 1 May 2009.

T cell antigen recognition requires antigen presenting cells APCs to present antigen fragments peptides on their cell surface in association with molecules of the major histocompatibility complex MHC . T cells use their antigen specific T cell receptors TCRs to recognise the antigen fragments presented by the APC. Such recognition acts as a trigger to the immune system to generate a range of responses to eradicate the antigen which has been recognised.

Recognition of external antigens by the immune system of an organism such as man can in some cases result in diseases known as atopic conditions. Examples of the latter are the allergic diseases including asthma atopic dermatitis and allergic rhinitis. In this group of diseases B lymphocytes generate antibodies of the IgE class in humans which bind externally derived antigens which are referred to in this context as allergens since these molecules elicit an allergic response. Production of allergen specific IgE is dependent upon T lymphocytes which are also activated by are specific for the allergen. Allergen specific IgE antibodies bind to the surface of cells such as basophils and mast cells by virtue of the expression by these cells of surface receptors for IgE.

Crosslinking of surface bound IgE molecules by allergen results in degranulation of these effector cells causing release of inflammatory mediators such as histamine 5 hydroxtryptamine and lipid mediators such as the sulphidoleukotrienes. In addition to IgE dependent events certain allergic diseases such as asthma are characterised by IgE independent events.

Allergic IgE mediated diseases are currently treated with agents which provide symptomatic relief or prevention. Examples of such agents are anti histamines 2 agonists and glucocorticosteroids. In addition some IgE mediated diseases are treated by desensitisation procedures that involve the periodic injection of allergen components or extracts. Desensitisation treatments may induce an IgG response that competes with IgE for allergen or they may induce specific suppressor T cells that block the synthesis of IgE directed against allergen. This form of treatment is not always effective and poses the risk of provoking serious side effects particularly general anaphylactic shock. This can be fatal unless recognised immediately and treated with adrenaline. A therapeutic treatment that would decrease or eliminate the unwanted allergic immune response to a particular allergen without altering the immune reactivity to other foreign antigens or triggering an allergic response itself would be of great benefit to allergic individuals.

Ragweed allergens are universally recognised as a major cause of allergic diseases in humans and animals including asthma allergic rhinitis and allergic dermatitis. Proteins present in ragweed pollen are particularly important. For example approximately 75 of hayfever sufferers in the United States are allergic to ragweed pollen. Hayfever is the common term for a form of seasonal allergy characterised by sneezing runny nose and itching eyes. The term hayfever arose because this form of allergic disease is most prevalent during haying season which corresponds to the flowering season of many plants that is when they release the highest quantities of pollen. It is particularly prevalent from late summer to early Autumn typically from the end of June to the end of September in the Northern Hemisphere .

It has been calculated that for adults in the United States hayfever is the 5th leading chronic disease and a major cause of work absenteeism resulting in nearly 4 million missed or lost workdays each year resulting in a total cost of more than 700 million in total lost productivity. Allergies are also the most frequently reported chronic condition in children limiting activities for more than 40 of them. Each year allergies account for more than 17 million outpatient office visits in the United States seasonal allergies such as hayfever account for more than half of these allergy visits.

A therapeutic or preventative treatment would therefore be of great benefit to humans that suffer or are at risk of suffering from ragweed allergy.

Ragweed allergy is typically caused by Common ragweed . The major allergen in ragweed pollen is Amb a 1. This protein exists as a number of different isoforms Amb a 1.1 1.2 1.3 and 1.4. The present inventors have discovered that certain combinations of peptide fragments derived from the Amb a 1 proteins are particularly useful in desensitising individuals to these allergens. The polypeptide combinations of the invention have been selected for their ability bind to many MHC Class II molecules be highly soluble to not trigger histamine release from basophils drawn from a panel of ragweed allergic individuals and to induce a cytokine response in a high proportion of subjects from a panel of ragweed allergic individuals. The compositions products vectors and formulations of the invention may therefore be provided to individuals for preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation.

The peptides of the invention were selected as potential T cell epitopes through in silico methods. When regions containing epitopes were identified they were further analysed to determine which of them were highly conserved between the four different Amb a 1 isoforms. These candidate polypeptides were then further screened for potential use in tolerisation. More specifically they were analysed for solubility characteristics and the ability to induce cytokine release from PBMC derived from ragweed allergic individuals. In some instances the peptide sequences were engineered to improve solubility and or reduce dimer formation.

A difficulty associated with approaches to desensitisation based on peptide immunisation lies in how to select an appropriate size and region of the allergen as the basis for the peptide to be used for immunisation. The size of the peptide of choice is crucial. If the peptide is too small the vaccine would not be effective in inducing an immunological response. If the peptides are too large or if the whole antigen is introduced into an individual there is the risk of inducing adverse reactions such as anaphylaxis which may be fatal. This risk may be greater if peptides are poorly soluble.

The polypeptides of the invention have been selected to retain T cell specificity whilst being small enough in size to not possess significant tertiary structure that would enable them to retain the conformation of an IgE binding epitope of the whole molecule. The polypeptides of the invention therefore do not induce significant crosslinking of adjacent specific IgE molecules on cells such as mast cells and basophils and have been shown not to cause significant histamine release from human basophils.

An advantage of the invention is the ability of the peptides to broadly target Major Histocompatibility Complex MHC molecules. T cell receptors TCRs are highly variable in their specificity. Variability is generated as with antibody molecules through gene recombination events within the cell. TCRs recognise antigen in the form of short peptides bound to molecules encoded by the genes of the Major Histocompatibility Complex MHC . These gene products are the same molecules that give rise to tissue types used in transplantation and are also referred to as Human Leukocyte Antigen molecules HLAs which terms may be used interchangeably. Individual MHC molecules possess peptide binding grooves which due to their shape and charge are only capable of binding a limited group of peptides. The peptides bound by one MHC molecule may not necessarily be bound by other MHC molecules.

When a protein molecule such as an antigen or allergen is taken up by antigen presenting cells such as B lymphocytes dendritic cells monocytes and macrophages the molecule is enzymatically degraded within the cell. The process of degradation gives rise to peptide fragments of the molecule which if they are of the appropriate size charge and shape may then bind within the peptide binding groove of certain MHC molecules and be subsequently displayed upon the surface of antigen presenting cells. If the peptide MHC complexes are present upon the antigen presenting cell surface in sufficient numbers they may then activate T cells which bear the appropriate peptide MHC specific T cell receptors.

Due to the polymorphic nature of the MHC individuals in an outbred population such as man will express different combinations of MHC molecules on their cell surfaces. Since different MHC molecules can bind different peptides from the same molecule based on the size charge and shape of the peptide different individuals will display a different repertoire of peptides bound to their MHC molecules. Identification of universal MHC binding peptide epitopes in an outbred population such as man is more difficult than in inbred animals such as certain strains of laboratory mice . On the basis of differential MHC expression between individuals and the inherent differences in peptide binding and presentation which this brings it is unlikely that a single peptide can be identified which will be of use for desensitisation therapy in man.

Another advantage of the invention is the selection of peptides and peptide combinations on the basis of responses observed in PBMCs freshly isolated from ragweed allergic individuals. In contrast to artefactual scenarios where clonal cell lines are established from allergic patients in order to test T cell responses the evaluation of ex vivo responses of freshly isolated PBMCs allows for a representative view of the relative population importance of different peptides without potential distortion induced by the culture process.

The peptide combinations of the invention however provide a broad coverage of efficacy over the human population by targeting multiple different MHC molecules. This broad coverage is illustrated by the ability of peptide combinations of the invention to cause a positive cytokine response in many individuals within the population. A vaccine formulated with the peptides of the invention would therefore have broad utility.

Accordingly the present invention provides a composition for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising at least one polypeptide selected from SEQ ID Nos. 1 to 31. Typically the composition comprises at least four polypeptides wherein the polypeptides are independently selected from any of the following 

 ii a variant of a polypeptide according to i wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of 

 iii a variant of a polypeptide according to i wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of a sequence that represents either 

SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31 provide the polypeptide sequences of the invention. SEQ ID NOS 32 onwards provide additional sequences.

The invention concerns peptides and combinations of peptides which can be used in tolerisation. Such peptides may comprise consist of or consist essentially of the sequences shown in any of SEQ ID NO s. 1 to 31 . Variants of these specific peptides may also be used. The variants may comprise consist of or consist essentially of sequences which are fragments of either any of SEQ ID NO s 1 to 31 or homologues of any of SEQ ID NO s 1 to 31.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a composition for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed. The composition typically comprises or consists at least four five six seven eight nine ten eleven or twelve polypeptides up to a maximum of thirteen. In other words the composition comprises between four and thirteen polypeptides. The polypeptides are independently selected from any of the following 

 ii a variant of a polypeptide according to i wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of 

 iii a variant of a polypeptide according to i wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of a sequence that represents either 

The invention also provides products and formulations comprising the polypeptides of the invention and compositions products and vectors comprising polynucleotides capable of expressing the polypeptides of the invention for use in preventing or treating ragweed allergy by tolerisation. Such tolerisation will typically be to an epitope for example a MHC class II epitope present in any of SEQ ID NO s 1 to 31.

The ragweed species common ragweed and to a lesser extent giant ragweed are responsible for a high proportion of ragweed allergy worldwide particularly allergies associated with ragweed pollen such as hayfever. Common ragweed is native to North America but has spread to most continents worldwide. Ragweeds bloom in the northern hemisphere from early July mid August or until cooler weather arrives. Ragweed is a pioneer plant which is well adapted to colonising newly disturbed ground. While in natural habitats it is often restricted by competition with other plants but in areas where humans have cleared existing vegetation ragweed quickly becomes widely and aggressively established. Thus ragweed is very abundant along rural roadsides fence lines waste lands new excavations cultivated fields gardens and poorly kept lawns. As such it is well adapted to wide variety of climates can tolerate a wide soil pH range from about 4.5 to about 8.5 and is also resistant to high salinity.

The major allergen in ragweed pollen is Amb a 1. This protein exists as a number of different isoforms Amb a 1.1 1.2. 1.3 and 1.4. These isoforms are set out in full in Example 1. The present inventors have identified the regions in Amb a 1 which comprise MHC Class II binding T cell epitopes and which are highly conserved between isoforms see analysis in Example 1 . Based on this information peptides derived from the relevant regions of Amb a 1 are suitable for preventing or treating ragweed allergy by tolerisation to all isoforms of Amb a 1.

The terms peptide and polypeptide are used interchangeably herein. The above proteins are also referred to herein as the allergens .

Tables 3 4 and 6 set out the sequences of the peptides of the invention where appropriate indicating the parent protein from which each peptide derives.

The composition typically comprises a combination of at least three different polypeptides of the invention up to a maximum of thirteen different polypeptides. Accordingly the composition of the invention may consist of three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve or thirteen peptides.

The polypeptide combinations in the composition of the invention are selected to provide as broad a coverage of the human population as possible i.e. the composition of the invention will produce an immune response in a high proportion of ragweed allergic individuals preferably more than 30 40 45 50 60 or 70 of ragweed allergic individuals in a panel or population of such individuals. The number of individuals in a population of ragweed allergic individuals may be any suitable number typically at least 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 or at least 100 individuals. Preferably the population has MHC allele frequencies within the range of frequencies that are representative of the Caucasian population. Reference population allele frequencies for 11 common DRB1 allele families are shown in Table 1 Data from HLA Facts Book Parham and Barber .

Optionally the composition may additionally comprise at least one additional polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of any of RGW02 RGW09 RGW06 or RGW06A RGW10 RGW10A RGW05 or RGW05A or a variant thereof

Optionally the composition may additionally comprise at least one additional polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of any of RGW07 RGW07C RGW07D or a variant thereof. The at least one additional polypeptide is preferably a polypeptide of RGW07D or a variant thereof.

More specifically in one embodiment the invention therefore provides a composition comprising between three and thirteen polypeptides consisting of 

In other words one specific embodiment of the invention provides a composition for use in the prevention or treatment of ragweed allergy by tolerisation comprising between three and thirteen peptide sequences wherein the composition consists of 

It will be appreciated that a to e above represent stringent and highly selective criteria for the identification of suitable combinations of the invention. For example if one were to select six peptides at random from the sequences of the invention there would be nearly a million possible combinations to choose from. By contrast it is useful to consider an example of a combination of six polypeptides in which the above criteria are applied. For example consider a combination wherein the following polypeptides are selected 

i any one of the polypeptides of RGW01 RGW01A or RGW01B and any one of the polypeptides of RGW03 RGW03A or RGW03B and any one of the polypeptides of RGW04 and RGW04A and

ii three further polypeptides selected from the polypeptides of any of RGW02 RGW09 RGW06 RGW06A RGW10 RGW10A RGW05 or RGW05A and finally

Based on such a selection the number of possible combinations represents a minute fraction of the total available combinations if the criteria determined by the inventors are not applied.

On the basis of the above a particularly preferred combination of the invention comprises or consists of the polypeptides of RGW01 RGW03B RGW04A RGW02 RGW05 and RGW06A or variants thereof.

A further preferred combination comprises of consists of the polypeptides of RGW01 RGW03B RGW04A RGW02 RGW05 RGW06A and RGW07D.

Subject to the above the composition may optionally comprise further polypeptides up to a total of thirteen unique polypeptides. These further polypeptides relate to i.e. are typically homologues and or fragments of the other sequences i.e. SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31 that are not amongst the polypeptides already selected. The further peptides are typically functional variants of one of the peptides of SEQ ID NO s 1 to 31. The further polypeptides may be identical to any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31. The composition may therefore comprise up to thirteen different polypeptides as provided in any of SEQ ID NO 1 to 31. However the optional further polypeptides do not need to be 100 identical to any of SEQ ID NO 1 to 31. They are preferably at least 65 identical to at least 9 for example at least 10 11 12 or 13 or more contiguous amino acids in any of SEQ ID NO 1 to 31 not already selected amongst the previously selected polypeptide s . These contiguous amino acids may comprise a MHC class II epitope for example which binds to any of the MHC molecules mentioned herein. In other words the composition may optionally comprise further polypeptides up to a total of thirteen unique polypeptides wherein the further polypeptides 

 i comprise a sequence having at least 65 sequence identity to at least 9 or more contiguous amino acids in any of SEQ ID NO 1 to 31 above not selected in a to e above and

wherein each different polypeptide is for simultaneous separate or sequential use in the prevention or treatment of ragweed allergy by tolerisation.

In more detail therefore the invention provides a product containing between three and thirteen polypeptides as defined in a to e above and optionally 

Another embodiment of the invention is a composition for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising one or more polypeptide wherein the polypeptide is selected from any of the following 

 ii a variant of a polypeptide according to i wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of 

 iii a variant of a polypeptide according to i wherein said variant is a polypeptide of length 9 to 30 amino acids that comprises a region consisting of a sequence that represents either 

The compositions or products of the invention may comprise variants of any of sequences defined above. The variant typically comprises 1 2 3 or more of the MHC class II epitopes present in the corresponding peptide of SEQ ID NO 1 to 31.

Functional variants are mentioned herein. Such variants may be able to tolerise an individual to a class II MHC epitope present in the corresponding peptide of SEQ ID NO 1 to 31 and thus it will typically comprise sequence that binds to the same MHC class II molecule and or is recognised by a T cell which recognises the corresponding epitope in the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO 1 to 31.

Variants of SEQ ID NO s 1 to 31 may be fragments derived by truncation. Truncation refers to the removal of one two three four five six seven eight nine ten or more amino acids from the N and or C terminal ends of a polypeptide of SEQ ID NOS. 1 to 31.

Fragments may also be generated by one or more internal deletions provided that the core 9 amino acids that makes up the T cell epitope is not substantially disrupted.

For example a variant of SEQ ID NO 1 may comprise a fragment of SEQ ID NO 1 i.e. a shorter sequence. This may include a deletion of one two three four five six seven eight nine ten or more amino acids from the N terminal end of SEQ ID NO 1 or from the C terminal end of SEQ ID NO 1. Such deletions may be made from both ends of SEQ ID NO 1. A variant of SEQ ID NO 1 may include additional amino acids for example from the sequence of the parent protein from which the peptide derives extending beyond the end s of SEQ ID NO 1. A variant may include a combination of the deletions and additions discussed above. For example amino acids may be deleted from one end of SEQ ID NO 1 but additional amino acids from the full length parent protein sequence may be added at the other end of SEQ ID NO 1. The same discussion of variants above also applies to SEQ ID NOS 2 to 31. A preferred variant of SEQ ID NO 20 is the peptide KKGEAAIKLTSSAGVLSK SEQ ID NO 150 .

A variant peptide may include one or more amino acid substitutions from the amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31 or a fragment thereof. A variant peptide may comprise sequence having at least 65 sequence identity to at least 9 or more contiguous amino acids in any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31. More preferably a suitable variant may comprise at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 or at least 98 amino acid identity to at least 9 contiguous amino acids of any of SEQ ID NO 1 to 31. This level of amino acid identity may be seen at any section of the peptide although it is preferably the core region. The level of amino acid identity is over at least 9 contiguous amino acids but it may be at least 10 11 12 13 14 15 or at least 16 or 17 amino acids depending on the size of the peptides of comparison. Accordingly any of the above specified levels of identity may be across the entire length of sequence.

In connection with amino acid sequences sequence identity refers to sequences which have the stated value when assessed using ClustalW Thompson et al Nucleic Acids Res. 1994 Nov. 11 22 22 4673 80 with the following parameters Pairwise alignment parameters Method accurate Matrix PAM Gap open penalty 10.00 Gap extension penalty 0.10 Multiple alignment parameters Matrix PAM Gap open penalty 10.00 identity for delay 30 Penalize end gaps on Gap separation distance 0 Negative matrix no Gap extension penalty 0.20 Residue specific gap penalties on Hydrophilic gap penalties on Hydrophilic residues GPSNDQEKR. Sequence identity at a particular residue is intended to include identical residues which have simply been derivatised.

A variant peptide may comprise 1 2 3 4 5 or more or up to 10 amino acid substitutions from any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31. Substitution variants preferably involve the replacement of one or more amino acids with the same number of amino acids and making conservative amino acid substitutions. For example an amino acid may be substituted with an alternative amino acid having similar properties for example another basic amino acid another acidic amino acid another neutral amino acid another charged amino acid another hydrophilic amino acid another hydrophobic amino acid another polar amino acid another aromatic amino acid or another aliphatic amino acid. Some properties of the 20 main amino acids which can be used to select suitable substituents are as follows 

Further variants include those in which instead of the naturally occurring amino acid the amino acid which appears in the sequence is a structural analog thereof. Amino acids used in the sequences may also be modified e.g. labelled providing the function of the peptide is not significantly adversely affected.

Where the peptide has a sequence that varies from the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31 or a fragment thereof the substitutions may occur across the full length of the sequence within the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31 or outside the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31. For example the variations described herein such as additions deletions substitutions and modifications may occur within the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31. A variant peptide may comprise or consist essentially of the amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31 in which one two three four or more amino acid substitutions have been made. A variant peptide may comprise a fragment of the parent protein that is larger than any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31. In this embodiment the variations described herein such as substitutions and modifications may occur within and or outside the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31.

The variant peptides of the invention are 9 to 30 amino acids in length inclusive. Preferably they may be from 9 to 20 or more preferably 13 to 17 amino acids in length. The peptides may be the same length as the peptide sequences in any one of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31.

The peptides may be chemically derived from the polypeptide allergen for example by proteolytic cleavage or can be derived in an intellectual sense from the polypeptide allergen for example by making use of the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide allergen and synthesising peptides based on the sequence. Peptides may be synthesised using methods well known in the art.

Where polypeptides comprise residues which are typically difficult to preserve during manufacture these residues may be replaced. For example glutamate spontaneously forms pyroglutamate in solution particularly when present at the N terminus of a peptide. Thus residues of the peptides of the invention which correspond to a glutamate or glutamine residue in the sequence of a native allergen protein sequence may be replaced with pyroglutamate in the peptides of the invention when such a residue is present at the N terminus of a peptide.

The term peptide includes not only molecules in which amino acid residues are joined by peptide CO NH linkages but also molecules in which the peptide bond is reversed. Such retro inverso peptidomimetics may be made using methods known in the art for example such as those described in Meziere et al 1997 J. Immunol. 159 3230 3237. This approach involves making pseudopeptides containing changes involving the backbone and not the orientation of side chains. Meziere et al 1997 show that at least for MHC class II and T helper cell responses these pseudopeptides are useful. Retro inverse peptides which contain NH CO bonds instead of CO NH peptide bonds are much more resistant to proteolysis.

Similarly the peptide bond may be dispensed with altogether provided that an appropriate linker moiety which retains the spacing between the carbon atoms of the amino acid residues is used it is particularly preferred if the linker moiety has substantially the same charge distribution and substantially the same planarity as a peptide bond. It will also be appreciated that the peptide may conveniently be blocked at its N or C terminus so as to help reduce susceptibility to exoproteolytic digestion. For example the N terminal amino group of the peptides may be protected by reacting with a carboxylic acid and the C terminal carboxyl group of the peptide may be protected by reacting with an amine Other examples of modifications include glycosylation and phosphorylation. Another potential modification is that hydrogens on the side chain amines of R or K may be replaced with methylene groups NH NH Me or N Me .

Analogues of peptides according to the invention may also include peptide variants that increase or decrease the peptide s half life in vivo. Examples of analogues capable of increasing the half life of peptides used according to the invention include peptoid analogues of the peptides D amino acid derivatives of the peptides and peptide peptoid hybrids. A further embodiment of the variant polypeptides used according to the invention comprises D amino acid forms of the polypeptide. The preparation of polypeptides using D amino acids rather than L amino acids greatly decreases any unwanted breakdown of such an agent by normal metabolic processes decreasing the amounts of agent which needs to be administered along with the frequency of its administration.

The peptides provided by the present invention may be derived from splice variants of the parent proteins encoded by mRNA generated by alternative splicing of the primary transcripts encoding the parent protein chains. The peptides may also be derived from amino acid mutants glycosylation variants and other covalent derivatives of the parent proteins which retain at least an MHC binding property of the allergens. Exemplary derivatives include molecules wherein the peptides of the invention are covalently modified by substitution chemical enzymatic or other appropriate means with a moiety other than a naturally occurring amino acid. Further included are naturally occurring variants of the parent proteins found in different mites. Such a variant may be encoded by an allelic variant or represent an alternative splicing variant.

Variants as described above may be prepared during synthesis of the peptide or by post production modification or when the peptide is in recombinant form using the known techniques of site directed mutagenesis random mutagenesis or enzymatic cleavage and or ligation of nucleic acids.

In accordance with the invention the further peptides that the composition may comprise are preferably functional variants of any of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31. That is the peptides are preferably capable of inducing an immune response. In particular the peptides are preferably capable of inducing cytokine production in ragweed allergic individuals. Typically the composition of the invention will therefore comprise at least one polypeptide or variant thereof which produces a cytokine response in greater than 45 50 55 preferably 60 or 65 of individuals in a population of ragweed allergic individuals. The number of individuals in a panel of ragweed allergic individuals may be any number greater than one for example at least 20 30 40 50 80 or at least 100 individuals. Preferably the composition comprises at least two three or most preferably four such peptides. Preferably the cytokine response is production of IL 13 or IFN gamma Cytokine production may be measured by any suitable method. Production of a cytokine is typically considered to have occurred in response to a peptide if the level of cytokine produced in the presence of the peptide is at least 2 3 4 or 5 fold above the background level of said cytokine that is produced in the absence of a stimulus i.e. the level produced by the same individual in the absence of the peptide or any other stimulus . Alternatively production of a cytokine may be considered to have occurred if the amount of cytokine produced exceeds a recognised limit typically 90 95 or preferably 100 pg ml typically from a sample of approximately 1.25 10cells in 250 l.

Suitable methods for measuring cytokine production typically include measuring the cytokine release from peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs from a taken sample from a subject. The sample is typically blood or serum. Cytokine release from PBMCs is measured after incubating the cells in the presence of a given peptide. Supernatants from the incubation mixture are then tested for the presence of a cytokine using any suitable assay for example an ELISA ELISPOT assay or flow cytometric assay. Particularly preferred methods include Multiplex bead array assays as described in for example de Jager et al Clinical and Diagnostic Laboratory Immunology 2003 Vol 10 1 p. 133 139. Typically the composition may comprise at least one additional peptide or variant thereof that is not amongst the polypeptides already selected upto a total of thirteen different peptides which produces a cytokine response in greater than 30 35 40 preferably 45 or 50 of individuals in a population of ragweed allergic individuals.

The composition may further comprise one or more additional peptides or variants thereof that are not amongst the polypeptides already selected upto a total of thirteen different peptides which produce a cytokine response in greater than 10 15 20 25 preferably 30 or 35 of individuals in a population of ragweed allergic individuals.

The composition may further comprise one or more additional peptides which induce release of IL 10. IL 10 is known as an immune modulator which can shift T cell responses away from an allergic type response. A significant IL 10 release may lead to induction of regulatory T cells which give rise to or improve toleration of the presence of the other peptides of the composition.

Preferably said peptide may induce release of IL 10 in at least 35 40 45 50 or 55 of a population. In this embodiment the peptide is therefore able to bind to a subset of MHC alleles which is representative of an equivalent proportion of the sample population. Preferably the peptides induce IL 10 release in 55 or more 65 or more 70 or more 75 or more 80 or more 85 or more or 90 or more of a population.

 Induction of IL 10 release is herein defined as a release which is measurable by methods commonly used in the art. Typically the response is measured in vitro using T cells obtained from the allergic individuals. An induction is scored as an IL 10 level which is greater than that observed in a control sample where T cells are not exposed to the peptide. In some embodiments an induction of IL 10 release suitable for tolerisation may be defined as an IL 10 release at least 35 40 45 50 or 55 of the average amount of IL 10 released in response to the whole protein allergen of which the first polypeptide is a fragment. It should be understood that the protein allergen used as a comparison may be the whole intact polypeptide or may be a truncated form that comprises the T cell epitopes which mediate immune response to the protein allergen. Commonly individual peptides derived from the protein allergen will show an average IL 10 release that is much lower than that obtained in response to the whole or truncated protein allergen as defined above. However individual peptides that show IL 10 release at least 35 40 45 50 or 55 of the IL 10 release to the whole or truncated protein allergen may be particularly suitable tolerising agents. The peptides may also display an average response that is the same as or greater than the response observed in response to whole or truncated protein allergen.

Alternatively the average level of IL 10 released may be measured in absolute terms in which case an average level above approximately 400 450 500 or 550 pg ml will be considered to be an induction typically from a sample of approximately 1.25 10cells in 250 l.

It should be understood that average may be the mean median or mode of the individual IL 10 releases observed in the population. It should be understood that where an individual in the population displays an unusually low or unusually high IL 10 release in comparison to the other members of the population they may be excluded from the average. This may allow for measurement of an average that is more representative of the responses shown in the population. The term unusually low or unusually high may refer to differentials of 10 fold or 20 fold as compared to a more representative average of the IL 10 releases that excludes the individuals showing unusual IL 10 release characteristics.

Suitable variants capable of binding to TCRs may be derived empirically or selected according to known criteria. Within a single peptide there are certain residues which contribute to binding within the MHC antigen binding groove and other residues which interact with hypervariable regions of the T cell receptor Allen et al 1987 Nature 327 713 5 .

Within the residues contributing to T cell receptor interaction a hierarchy has been demonstrated which pertains to dependency of T cell activation upon substitution of a given peptide residue. Using peptides which have had one or more T cell receptor contact residues substituted with a different amino acid several groups have demonstrated profound effects upon the process of T cell activation. Evavold Allen 1991 Nature 252 1308 10 demonstrated the dissociation of T cell proliferation and cytokine production. In this in vitro model a T cell clone specific for residues 64 76 of haemoglobin in the context of I E was challenged with a peptide analogue in which a conservative substitution of aspartic acid for glutamic acid had been made. This substitution did not significantly interfere with the capacity of the analogue to bind to I E.

Following in vitro challenge of a T cell clone with this analogue no proliferation was detected although IL 4 secretion was maintained as was the capacity of the clone to help B cell responses. In a subsequent study the same group demonstrated the separation of T cell mediated cytolysis from cytokine production. In this instance the former remained unaltered while the latter was impaired. The efficacy of altered peptide ligands in vivo was initially demonstrated in a murine model of EAE experimental allergic encephalomyelitis by McDevitt and colleagues Smilek et al 1991 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 88 9633 9637 . In this model EAE is induced by immunisation with the encephalitogenic peptide Ac1 11 of MBP myelin basic protein . Substitution at position four lysine with an alanine residue generated a peptide which bound well to its restricting element A A but which was non immunogenic in the susceptible PL JxSJLF 1 strain and which furthermore prevented the onset of EAE when administered either before or after immunisation with the encephalitogenic peptide. Thus residues can be identified in peptides which affect the ability of the peptides to induce various functions of T cells.

Advantageously peptides may be designed to favour T cell proliferation and induction of desensitisation. Metzler and Wraith have demonstrated improved tolerogenic capacity of peptides in which substitutions increasing peptide MHC affinity have been made Metzler Wraith 1993 Int Immunol 1159 65 . That an altered peptide ligand can cause long term and profound anergy in cloned T cells was demonstrated by Sloan Lancaster et al 1993 Nature 363 156 9.

The compositions of the invention are capable of inducing a late phase response in an individual that is sensitised to the allergens. The term late phase response includes the meaning as set forth in Allergy and Allergic Diseases 1997 A. B. Kay Ed. Blackwell Science pp 1113 1130. The late phase response may be any late phase response LPR . Preferably the peptides are capable of inducing a late asthmatic response LAR or a late rhinitic response or a late phase skin response or a late phase ocular response. Whether or not a particular peptide can give rise to a LPR can be determined using methods well known in the art a particularly preferred method is that described in Cromwell O Durham S R Shaw R J Mackay J and Kay A B. Provocation tests and measurements of mediators from mast cells and basophils in asthma and allergic rhinitis. In Handbook of Experimental Immunology 4 Chapter 127 Editor Weir D M Blackwell Scientific Publications 1986.

Thus preferably the individual peptides of the invention are able to induce a LPR in an individual who has been sensitised to the allergens. Whether or not an individual has been sensitised to the allergens may be determined by well known procedures such as skin prick testing with solutions of allergen extracts induction of cutaneous LPRs clinical history allergen challenge and radioallergosorbent test RAST for measurement of allergen specific IgE. Whether or not a particular individual is expected to benefit from treatment may be determined by the physician based for example on such tests.

Desensitising or tolerising an individual to the allergens means inhibition or dampening of allergic tissue reactions induced by the allergens in appropriately sensitised individuals. It has been shown that T cells can be selectively activated and then rendered unresponsive. Moreover the anergising or elimination of these T cells leads to desensitisation of the patient for a particular allergen. The desensitisation manifests itself as a reduction in response to an allergen or allergen derived peptide or preferably an elimination of such a response on second and further administrations of the allergen or allergen derived peptide. The second administration may be made after a suitable period of time has elapsed to allow desensitisation to occur this is preferably any period between one day and several weeks. An interval of around two weeks is preferred.

Although the compositions of the invention are able to induce a LPR in a ragweed allergic individual it should be appreciated that when a composition is used to treat a patient it is preferable that a sufficiently low concentration of the composition is used such that no observable LPR will occur but the response will be sufficient to partially desensitise the T cells such that the next preferably higher dose may be given and so on. In this way the dose is built up to give full desensitisation but often without ever inducing a LPR in the patient. Although the composition or peptide is able to do so at a higher concentration than is administered.

The compositions of the invention preferably are capable of inducing a late phase response in 50 or more of a panel of ragweed allergic individuals from the population. More preferably the compositions are capable of inducing a LPR in 55 or more 60 or more 65 or more 70 or more 75 or more 80 or more 85 or more or 90 or more of sensitized individuals in a panel. Whether or not the compositions are able to induce a LPR in a certain percentage of a panel of subjects can be determined by methods which are well known in the art.

It will be understood that the peptides of the invention comprise a T cell epitope that consists of a core 9 amino acids which are the minimal essential sequence required for MHC class II binding. However the peptides may also comprise additional residues flanking the core 9 amino acids. The peptides may therefore comprise a region containing a T cell epitope in which some residues may be modified without affecting the function of the epitope. Accordingly functional variants of the peptides as defined above include peptides which are altered to improve their solubility relative to the native sequence of the peptides. Improved solubility is advantageous for the tolerisation of subjects to allergens from which the peptides of the invention derive since administration of poorly soluble agents to subjects causes undesirable non tolerising inflammatory responses. The solubility of the peptides may be improved by altering the residues which flank the region containing a T cell epitope. A peptide of the invention may be engineered to be more soluble such that it comprises 

i any cysteine residues in the native sequence of the peptide are replaced with serine or 2 aminobutyric acid and or

ii any residues at the N and or C terminus of the native sequence of the peptide which are not comprised in a T cell epitope are deleted and or

iii any two consecutive amino acids comprising the sequence Asp Gly in the upto four amino acids at the N and or C terminus of the native sequence of the peptide which are not comprised in a T cell epitope are deleted.

The individual peptides that make up the compositions and products of the invention may be administered directly or may be administered indirectly by expression from an encoding sequence. For example a polynucleotide may be provided that encodes a peptide of the invention such as any of the peptides described above. A peptide of the invention may thus be produced from or delivered in the form of a polynucleotide which encodes and is capable of expressing it. Any reference herein to the use delivery or administration of a peptide of the invention is intended to include the indirect use delivery or administration of such a peptide via expression from a polynucleotide that encodes it.

The terms nucleic acid molecule and polynucleotide are used interchangeably herein and refer to a polymeric form of nucleotides of any length either deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides or analogs thereof. Non limiting examples of polynucleotides include a gene a gene fragment messenger RNA mRNA cDNA recombinant polynucleotides plasmids vectors isolated DNA of any sequence isolated RNA of any sequence nucleic acid probes and primers. A polynucleotide of the invention may be provided in isolated or purified form. A nucleic acid sequence which encodes a selected polypeptide is a nucleic acid molecule which is transcribed in the case of DNA and translated in the case of mRNA into a polypeptide in vivo when placed under the control of appropriate regulatory sequences. The boundaries of the coding sequence are determined by a start codon at the 5 amino terminus and a translation stop codon at the 3 carboxy terminus. For the purposes of the invention such nucleic acid sequences can include but are not limited to cDNA from viral prokaryotic or eukaryotic mRNA genomic sequences from viral or prokaryotic DNA or RNA and even synthetic DNA sequences. A transcription termination sequence may be located 3 to the coding sequence.

Polynucleotides of the invention can be synthesised according to methods well known in the art as described by way of example in Sambrook et al 1931 Molecular Cloning a laboratory manual Cold Spring Harbor Press .

The polynucleotide molecules of the present invention may be provided in the form of an expression cassette which includes control sequences operably linked to the inserted sequence thus allowing for expression of the peptide of the invention in vivo in a targeted subject. These expression cassettes in turn are typically provided within vectors e.g. plasmids or recombinant viral vectors which are suitable for use as reagents for nucleic acid immunization. Such an expression cassette may be administered directly to a host subject. Alternatively a vector comprising a polynucleotide of the invention may be administered to a host subject. Preferably the polynucleotide is prepared and or administered using a genetic vector. A suitable vector may be any vector which is capable of carrying a sufficient amount of genetic information and allowing expression of a peptide of the invention.

The present invention thus includes expression vectors that comprise such polynucleotide sequences. Thus the present invention provides a vector for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweeds by tolerisation comprising four or more polynucleotide sequences which encode different polypeptides of the invention and optionally one or more further polynucleotide sequences which encode different polypeptides as defined herein. The vector may comprise 4 5 6 or 7 polynucleotide sequences which encode different polypeptides of the invention.

Furthermore it will be appreciated that the compositions and products of the invention may comprise a mixture of polypeptides and polynucleotides. Accordingly the invention provides a composition or product as defined herein wherein in place of any one of the polypeptide is a polynucleotide capable of expressing said polypeptide.

Expression vectors are routinely constructed in the art of molecular biology and may for example involve the use of plasmid DNA and appropriate initiators promoters enhancers and other elements such as for example polyadenylation signals which may be necessary and which are positioned in the correct orientation in order to allow for expression of a peptide of the invention. Other suitable vectors would be apparent to persons skilled in the art. By way of further example in this regard we refer to Sambrook et al.

Thus a polypeptide of the invention may be provided by delivering such a vector to a cell and allowing transcription from the vector to occur. Preferably a polynucleotide of the invention or for use in the invention in a vector is operably linked to a control sequence which is capable of providing for the expression of the coding sequence by the host cell i.e. the vector is an expression vector.

 Operably linked refers to an arrangement of elements wherein the components so described are configured so as to perform their usual function. Thus a given regulatory sequence such as a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence is capable of effecting the expression of that sequence when the proper enzymes are present. The promoter need not be contiguous with the sequence so long as it functions to direct the expression thereof. Thus for example intervening untranslated yet transcribed sequences can be present between the promoter sequence and the nucleic acid sequence and the promoter sequence can still be considered operably linked to the coding sequence.

A number of expression systems have been described in the art each of which typically consists of a vector containing a gene or nucleotide sequence of interest operably linked to expression control sequences. These control sequences include transcriptional promoter sequences and transcriptional start and termination sequences. The vectors of the invention may be for example plasmid virus or phage vectors provided with an origin of replication optionally a promoter for the expression of the said polynucleotide and optionally a regulator of the promoter. A plasmid is a vector in the form of an extrachromosomal genetic element. The vectors may contain one or more selectable marker genes for example an ampicillin resistance gene in the case of a bacterial plasmid or a resistance gene for a fungal vector. Vectors may be used in vitro for example for the production of DNA or RNA or used to transfect or transform a host cell for example a mammalian host cell. The vectors may also be adapted to be used in vivo for example to allow in vivo expression of the polypeptide.

A promoter is a nucleotide sequence which initiates and regulates transcription of a polypeptide encoding polynucleotide. Promoters can include inducible promoters where expression of a polynucleotide sequence operably linked to the promoter is induced by an analyte cofactor regulatory protein etc. repressible promoters where expression of a polynucleotide sequence operably linked to the promoter is repressed by an analyte cofactor regulatory protein etc. and constitutive promoters. It is intended that the term promoter or control element includes full length promoter regions and functional e.g. controls transcription or translation segments of these regions.

A polynucleotide expression cassette or vector according to the present invention may additionally comprise a signal peptide sequence. The signal peptide sequence is generally inserted in operable linkage with the promoter such that the signal peptide is expressed and facilitates secretion of a polypeptide encoded by coding sequence also in operable linkage with the promoter.

Typically a signal peptide sequence encodes a peptide of 10 to 30 amino acids for example 15 to 20 amino acids. Often the amino acids are predominantly hydrophobic. In a typical situation a signal peptide targets a growing polypeptide chain bearing the signal peptide to the endoplasmic reticulum of the expressing cell. The signal peptide is cleaved off in the endoplasmic reticulum allowing for secretion of the polypeptide via the Golgi apparatus. Thus a peptide of the invention may be provided to an individual by expression from cells within the individual and secretion from those cells.

Alternatively polynucleotides of the invention may be expressed in a suitable manner to allow presentation of a peptide of the invention by an MHC class II molecule at the surface of an antigen presenting cell. For example a polynucleotide expression cassette or vector of the invention may be targeted to antigen presenting cells or the expression of encoded peptide may be preferentially stimulated or induced in such cells.

Polynucleotides of interest may be used in vitro ex vivo or in vivo in the production of a peptide of the invention. Such polynucleotides may be administered or used in the prevention or treatment of allergy by tolerisation.

Methods for gene delivery are known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 399 346 5 580 859 and 5 531 466. The nucleic acid molecule can be introduced directly into the recipient subject such as by standard intramuscular or intradermal injection transdermal particle delivery inhalation topically or by oral intranasal or mucosal modes of administration. The molecule alternatively can be introduced ex vivo into cells that have been removed from a subject. For example a polynucleotide expression cassette or vector of the invention may be introduced into APCs of an individual ex vivo. Cells containing the nucleic acid molecule of interest are re introduced into the subject such that an immune response can be mounted against the peptide encoded by the nucleic acid molecule. The nucleic acid molecules used in such immunization are generally referred to herein as nucleic acid vaccines. 

The polypeptides polynucleotides vectors or cells of the invention may be present in a substantially isolated form. They may be mixed with carriers or diluents which will not interfere with their intended use and still be regarded as substantially isolated. They may also be in a substantially purified form in which case they will generally comprise at least 90 e.g. at least 95 98 or 99 of the proteins polynucleotides cells or dry mass of the preparation.

The invention encompasses the use in vitro of a method of producing a population of APCs that present the peptides of the invention on their surface that may be subsequently used in therapy. Such a method may be carried out ex vivo on a sample of cells that have been obtained from a patient. The APCs produced in this way therefore form a pharmaceutical agent that can be used in the treatment or prevention of ragweed allergy by tolerisation. The cells should be accepted by the immune system of the individual because they derive from that individual. Delivery of cells that have been produced in this way to the individual from whom they were originally obtained thus forms a therapeutic embodiment of the invention.

The peptides polynucleotides vectors and cells of the invention may be provided to an individual either singly or in combination. Each molecule or cell of the invention may be provided to an individual in an isolated substantially isolated purified or substantially purified form. For example a peptide of the invention may be provided to an individual substantially free from the other peptides.

Whilst it may be possible for the peptides polynucleotides or compositions according to the invention to be presented in raw form it is preferable to present them as a pharmaceutical formulation. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention the present invention provides a pharmaceutical formulation for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweeds by tolerisation comprising a composition vector or product according to the invention together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents and optionally one or more other therapeutic ingredients. The carrier s must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof. Typically carriers for injection and the final formulation are sterile and pyrogen free.

Formulation of a composition comprising the peptide polynucleotides or cells of the invention can be carried out using standard pharmaceutical formulation chemistries and methodologies all of which are readily available to the reasonably skilled artisan.

For example compositions containing one or more molecules or cells of the invention can be combined with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients or vehicles. Auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents pH buffering substances and the like may be present in the excipient or vehicle. These excipients vehicles and auxiliary substances are generally pharmaceutical agents that do not induce an immune response in the individual receiving the composition and which may be administered without undue toxicity. Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include but are not limited to liquids such as water saline polyethyleneglycol hyaluronic acid and ethanol. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can also be included therein for example mineral acid salts such as hydrochlorides hydrobromides phosphates sulfates and the like and the salts of organic acids such as acetates propionates malonates benzoates and the like. A thorough discussion of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients vehicles and auxiliary substances is available in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Pub. Co. N.J. 1991 .

Such compositions may be prepared packaged or sold in a form suitable for bolus administration or for continuous administration. Injectable compositions may be prepared packaged or sold in unit dosage form such as in ampoules or in multi dose containers containing a preservative. Compositions include but are not limited to suspensions solutions emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles pastes and implantable sustained release or biodegradable formulations. Such compositions may further comprise one or more additional ingredients including but not limited to suspending stabilizing or dispersing agents. In one embodiment of a composition for parenteral administration the active ingredient is provided in dry for e.g. a powder or granules form for reconstitution with a suitable vehicle e. g. sterile pyrogen free water prior to parenteral administration of the reconstituted composition. The pharmaceutical compositions may be prepared packaged or sold in the form of a sterile injectable aqueous or oily suspension or solution. This suspension or solution may be formulated according to the known art and may comprise in addition to the active ingredient additional ingredients such as the dispersing agents wetting agents or suspending agents described herein. Such sterile injectable formulations may be prepared using a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as water or 1 3 butane diol for example. Other acceptable diluents and solvents include but are not limited to Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride solution and fixed oils such as synthetic mono or di glycerides. Other parentally administrable compositions which are useful include those which comprise the active ingredient in microcrystalline form in a liposomal preparation or as a component of a biodegradable polymer systems. Compositions for sustained release or implantation may comprise pharmaceutically acceptable polymeric or hydrophobic materials such as an emulsion an ion exchange resin a sparingly soluble polymer or a sparingly soluble salt.

Alternatively the peptides or polynucleotides of the present invention may be encapsulated adsorbed to or associated with particulate carriers. Suitable particulate carriers include those derived from polymethyl methacrylate polymers as well as PLG microparticles derived from poly lactides and poly lactide co glycolides . See e.g. Jeffery et al. 1993 Pharm. Res. 10 362 368. Other particulate systems and polymers can also be used for example polymers such as polylysine polyarginine polyornithine spermine spermidine as well as conjugates of these molecules.

The formulation of any of the peptides polynucleotides or cells mentioned herein will depend upon factors such as the nature of the substance and the method of delivery. Any such substance may be administered in a variety of dosage forms. It may be administered orally e.g. as tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules parenterally epicutaneously subcutaneously by inhalation intravenously intramuscularly intrasternally transdermally intradermally sublingually instranasally buccally or by infusion techniques. The substance may also be administered as suppositories. A physician will be able to determine the required route of administration for each particular individual.

The compositions of formulations of the invention will comprise a suitable concentration of each peptide polynucleotide cell to be effective without causing adverse reaction. Typically the concentration of each peptide in the composition will be in the range of 0.03 to 200 nmol ml. More preferably in the range of 0.3 to 200 nmol ml 3 to 180 nmol ml 10 to 150 nmol ml or 30 to 120 nmol ml. The composition or formulations should have a purity of greater than 95 or 98 or a purity of at least 99 .

In one embodiment therefore the peptides polynucleotides cells or compositions of the invention are used for therapy in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents. The agents may be administered separately simultaneously or sequentially. They may be administered in the same or different compositions. Accordingly in a method of the invention the subject may also be treated with a further therapeutic agent.

A composition may therefore be formulated which comprises a molecule and or cell of the invention and also one or more other therapeutic molecules. A composition of the invention may alternatively be used simultaneously sequentially or separately with one or more other therapeutic compositions as part of a combined treatment.

The present invention relates to peptides polynucleotides vectors and cells that are capable of desensitising or tolerising human individuals to the allergens described above and are therefore useful in the prevention or treatment of ragweed allergy. The invention provides compositions products vectors and formulations for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweeds by tolerisation. The invention also provides a method of tolerising or desensitizing a ragweed allergic individual comprising administering either singly or in combination the polypeptides polynucleotides cells of the invention as described above.

The individual to be treated or provided with the composition or formulation of the invention is preferably human. It will be appreciated that the individual to be treated may be known to be sensitised to the allergens at risk of being sensitised or suspected of being sensitised. The individual can be tested for sensitisation using techniques well known in the art and as described herein. Alternatively the individual may have a family history of allergy to ragweed. It may not be necessary to test an individual for sensitisation to ragweed because the individual may display symptoms of allergy when exposed to ragweed. By exposure is meant proximity to for example a ragweed plant or a substance or product derived from a ragweed plant or a substance or product containing or comprising either of the above. The substance or product derived from a ragweed plant is typically ragweed pollen. By proximity is meant 10 meters or less 5 meters or less 2 meters or less 1 meter or less or 0 meters from the items described above. Symptoms of allergy can include itchy eyes runny nose breathing difficulties red itchy skin or rash.

The individual to be treated may be of any age. However preferably the individual may be in the age group of 1 to 90 5 to 60 10 to 40 or more preferably 18 to 35.

Preferably the individual to be treated is from a population that has MHC allele frequencies within the range of frequencies that are representative of the Caucasian population. Reference population allele frequencies for 11 common DRB1 allele families are shown in Table 1 Data from HLA Facts Book Parham and Barber .

Preferably the individual is from a population where the allele frequencies of the following DRB1 alleles is 

The individual may have had allergy to ragweeds for at least 2 weeks 1 month 6 months 1 year or 5 years. The individual may suffer from a rash nasal congestion nasal discharge and or coughing caused by the allergy. The individual may or may not have been administered with other compositions compounds which treat ragweed allergy.

The individual typically lives in a geographical region with a warm and moist climate. The individual typically suffers from allergy to ragweed in a particular season. The season typically corresponds to the flowering season of ragweed which is typically summer to Autumn preferably late summer for July to August in the Northern hemisphere to early Autumn September to October in the Northern hemisphere . The ragweed allergic individual is typically allergic to ragweed pollen.

Since many individuals are allergic or may require desensitizing to several polypeptide antigens the current invention also provides means of desensitizing m individuals that are allergic to multiple antigens. Tolerance induced in an individual to a first polypeptide antigen or allergen can create in the individual a tolergeneic environment wherein inappropriate immune responses to other antigens can be downregulated in order to provide tolerance to other antigens.

This finding means that individuals allergic to multiple allergens can be treated in a greatly reduced time period and that individuals seriously allergic to some allergens e.g. peanuts but more mildly allergic to other allergens e.g. cat dander can benefit from a therapy wherein tolerance to the milder allergen is established and then this tolergeneic environment is used to provide tolerance to the other more extreme allergen. In addition individuals suffering from an autoimmune disorder who are additionally sensitised or otherwise immune to an unrelated antigen or allergen can benefit from a treatment regime wherein tolerance to the unrelated antigen or allergen is first established and then this tolergeneic environment is used to provide tolerance to the autoantigen associated with the autoimmune disorder.

A method is therefore provided for desensitising a ragweed allergic individual to ragweed allergen as described above and one or more further different polypeptide antigens. The method entails in a first step administering to the individual a composition product formulation primary composition according to the invention as described herein and wherein the administration is carried out in a manner sufficient to generate a hyporesponsive state against ragweed allergen. Once a hyporesponsive state has been established toward ragweed allergen or at least a shift toward desensitisation has occurred the method entails administration of a secondary composition comprising a second different polypeptide antigen to which the individual is to be sensitised. Administration of the secondary composition is carried out in such a way as to take advantage of the tolergeneic environment established by use of the primary composition where it is now possible to establish tolerance to the second different polypeptide antigen. The secondary composition is coadministered with either the first primary composition or a larger fragment of the allergen from which the primary composition derives. By coadministered it is meant either the simultaneous or concurrent administration e.g. when the two are present in the same composition or administered in separate compositions at nearly the same time but at different sites as well as the delivery of polypeptide antigens in separate compositions at different times. For example the secondary composition may be delivered prior to or subsequent to delivery of the first composition at the same or a different site. The timing between deliveries can range from about several seconds apart to about several minutes apart several hours apart or even several days apart. Furthermore different delivery methods can be employed.

The second polypeptide antigen is preferably an allergen different to the ragweed allergen. Suitable allergens for use in the methods of the invention can of course be obtained and or produced using known methods. Classes of suitable allergens include but are not limited to other ragweed allergens pollens animal dander especially cat dander grasses molds dusts antibiotics stinging insect venoms and a variety of environmental including chemicals and metals drug and food allergens. Common tree allergens include pollens from cottonwood popular ash birch maple oak elm hickory and pecan trees common plant allergens include those from mugwort ragweed English plantain sorrel dock and pigweed plant contact allergens include those from poison oak poison ivy and nettles common grass allergens include rye grass Timothy Johnson Bermuda fescue and bluegrass allergens common allergens can also be obtained from molds or fungi such as Alternaria Fusarium Hormodendrum Aspergillus Micropolyspora Mucor and thermophilic actinomycetes epidermal allergens can be obtained from house or organic dusts typically fungal in origin or from animal sources such as feathers and dog dander common food allergens include milk and cheese diary egg wheat nut e.g. peanut seafood e.g. shellfish pea bean and gluten allergens common environmental allergens include metals nickel and gold chemicals formaldehyde trinitrophenol and turpentine Latex rubber fiber cotton or wool burlap hair dye cosmetic detergent and perfume allergens common drug allergens include local anesthetic and salicylate allergens antibiotic allergens include penicillin tetracycline and sulfonamide allergens and common insect allergens include bee wasp and ant venom and cockroach calyx allergens. Particularly well characterized allergens include but are not limited to the major cat allergen Fel dl bee venom phospholipase A2 PLA Akdis et al. 1996 98 1676 1683 birch pollen allergen Bet v 1 Bauer et al. 1997 107 536 541 and the multi epitopic recombinant grass allergen rKBG8.3 Cao et al. 1997 90 46 51 . These and other suitable allergens are commercially available and or can be readily prepared as extracts following known techniques.

Preferably the second polypeptide allergen is selected from the list of allergen sequences and database accession numbers NCBI Entrez accession numbers below. NCBI is the National Center for Biotechnology information and is a division of the US National Institutes of Health. The NCBI web site from which access to the database may be sought is www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov . Allergen sequences and database accession numbers NCBI Entrez accession numbers 

1170095 1359436 2440053 666007 487661 1545803 84702 84699 625532 404370 1091577 1460058 7413 9072 387592.

539716 539715 423193 423192 423191 423190 1364213 1364212 395407 163827 163823 163825 1169665 232086 1169666.

3319923 3319921 3087805 1493836 1480457 1223884 3452147 3451147 1916805 232267 123335 2501578 3319662 3288200 1942537 2392631 2392630 1421554 1311006 494093 3183706 3172534 283243 1170248 1708278 1706547 464775 266312 231586 123337 116359 123062 2213877 542013 2144920 1070656 2129914 2129913 2129912 100135 82026 1076559 82028 82027 282933 280399 100138 1086972 108697 1086976 1086978 1086978 1086976 1086974 1086972 913758 913757 913756 234388 1092500 228691 1177405 18839 18837 18835 18833 18831 1209317 1184668 168217 168215 168213 168211 168209 348137.

135480 417103 687261 687259 1771355 2388662 631955 542131 542130 542129 100636 626029 542132 320616 320615 320614 100638 100634 82450 626028 100639 283345 542133 1771353 1763163 310877 310875 250525 55317 515377 510911 939932 439950 2718 168316 168314 485371 2388664 2832717 2828273 548867.

458878 548863 2529314 2529308 2415702 2415700 2415698 542168 542167 626037 542169 541814 542171 253337 253336 453976 439960.

549193 549192 549191 549190 549131 117414 126761 69576 625255 627131 627188 627187 482382 112561 627186 627185 1923233 317645 317647 745570 225764 162551.

131919 128193 585564 1942360 2554672 2392209 2414158 1321728 1321726 1321724 1321722 1321720 1321718 1321716 1321714 1321712 3015520 2935416 464576 1705843 1168701 1168710 1168709 1168708 1168707 1168706 1168705 1168704 1168703 1168702 1842188 2564228 2564226 2564224 2564222 2564220 2051993 1813311 1536831 534910 534900 534318 1340000 1339998 2149808 66207 2129477 1076249 1076247 629480 481805 81443 1361968 1361967 1361966 1361965 1361964 1361963 1361962 1361961 1361960 1361959 320546 629483 629482 629481 541804 320545 81444 541814 629484 474911 452742 1834387 298737 298736 1584322 1584321 584320 1542873 1542871 1542869 1542867 1542865 1542863 1542861 1542859 1542857 1483232 1483230 1483228 558561 551640 488605 452746 452744 452740 452738 452736 452734 452732 452730 452728 450885 17938 17927 17925 17921 297538 510951 231331 231329 166953.

2739154 3719257 3703107 3687326 3643813 3087805 1864024 1493836 1480457 2593176 2593174 1575778 763532 746485 163827 163823 3080761 163825 3608493 3581965 2253610 2231297 2317849 3409499 3409498 3409497 3409496 3409495 3409494 3409493 3409492 3409491 3409490 3409431 3409488 3409487 3409486 3409485 3409484 3409483 3409482 3409481 3409480 3409479 3409478 3409477 3409476 3409475 3409474 3409473 3409472 3409471 3409470 3409469 3409468 3409467 3409466 3409465 3409464 3409463 3409462 3409461 3409460 3409459 3409458 3409457 3409456 3318885 3396070 3367732 1916805 3337403 2851457 2851456 1351295 549187 136467 1173367 2499810 2498582 2498581 1346478 1171009 126608 114091 2506771 1706660 1169665 1169531 232086 416318 114922 2497701 1703232 1703233 1703233 1703232 3287877 3122132 3182907 3121758 3121756 3121755 3121746 3121745 3319925 3319923 3319921 3319651 3318731 3318779 3309647 3309047 3309045 3309043 3309041 3309039 3288200 3288068 2924494 3256212 3256210 3243234 3210053 3210052 3210051 3210050 3210049 3210048 3210047 3210046 3210045 3210044 3210043 3210042 3210041 3210040 3210039 3210038 3210037 3210036 3210035 3210034 3210033 3210032 3210031 3210030 3210029 3210028 3210027 3210026 3210025 3210024 3210023 3210022 3210021 3210020 3210019 3210018 3210017 3210016 3210015 3210014 3210013 3210012 3210011 3210010 3210009 3210008 3210007 3210006 3210005 3210004 3210003 3210002 3210001 3210000 3209999 3201547 2781152 2392605 2392604 2781014 1942360 2554672 2392209 3114481 3114480 2981657 3183706 3152922 3135503 3135501 3135499 3135497 2414158 1321733 1321731 1321728 1321726 1321724 1321722 1321720 1321718 1321716 1321714 1321712 3095075 3062795 3062793 3062791 2266625 2266623 2182106 3044216 2154736 3021324 3004467 3005841 3005839 3004485 3004473 3004471 3004469 3004465 2440053 1805730 2970629 2959318 2935527 2935416 809536 730091 585279 584968 2498195 2833325 2498604 2498317 2498299 2493414 2498586 2498585 2498576 2497749 2493446 2493445 1513216 729944 2498099 548449 465054 465053 465052 548671 548670 548660 548658 548657 2832430 232084 2500822 2498118 2498119 2498119 2498118 1708296 1708793 416607 416608 416608 416607 2499791 2498580 2498579 2498578 2498577 2497750 1705483 1703445 1709542 1709545 1710531 1352699 1346568 1346323 1346322 2507248 11352240 1352239 1352237 1352229 1351935 1350779 1346806 1346804 1346803 1170095 1168701 1352506 1171011 1171008 1171005 1171004 1171002 1171001 1168710 1168709 1168708 1168707 1168706 1168705 1168704 1168703 1168702 1168696 1168391 1168390 1168348 1173075 1173074 1173071 1169290 1163170 1168402 729764 729320 729979 729970 729315 730050 730049 730048 549194 549193 549192 549191 549190 549131 549188 549185 549184 549183 549182 549181 549180 549179 464471 585290 416731 1169666 113478 113479 113477 113476 113475 130975 119656 113562 113561 113560 416610 126387 126386 126385 132270 416611 416612 416612 416611 730035 127205 1352238 125887 549186 137395 730036 133174 114090 131112 126949 129293 124757 129501 416636 2801531 2796177 2796175 2677826 2735118 2735116 2735114 2735112 2735110 2735108 2735106 273531 2735102 2735100 2735098 2735096 2707295 2154730 2154728 1684720 2580504 2465137 2465135 2465133 2465131 2465129 2465127 2564228 2564226 2564224 2564222 2564220 2051993 1313972 1313970 1313968 1313966 2443824 2488684 2488683 2488682 2488681 2488680 2488679 2488678 2326190 2464905 2415702 2415700 2415698 2398759 2398757 2353266 2338288 1167836 414703 2276458 1684718 2293571 1580797 1580794 2245508 2245060 1261972 2190552 1881574 511953 1532058 1532056 1532054 1359436 666007 487661 217308 1731859 217306 217304 1545803 1514943 577696 516728 506858 493634 493632 2154734 2154732 543659 1086046 1086045 2147643 2147642 1086003 1086002 1086001 543675 543623 543509 543491 1364099 2147108 2147107 1364001 1085628 631913 631912 631911 2147092 477301 543482 345521 542131 542130 542129 100636 2146809 480443 2114497 2144915 72355 71728 319828 1082946 1082945 1082944 539716 539715 423193 423192 423191 423190 1079187 627190 627131 627188 627187 482382 1362656 627186 627185 627182 482381 85299 85298 2133756 2133755 1079186 627181 32314 32313 112559 112558 1362590 2133564 1085122 1073171 627144 627143 627142 627141 280576 102835 102834 102833 102832 84703 84702 84700 84699 84698 84696 477888 477505 102575 102572 478272 2130094 629813 629812 542172 542168 542167 481432 320620 280414 626029 542132 320615 320614 100638 100637 100635 82449 320611 320610 280409 320607 320606 539051 539050 539049 539048 322803 280407 100501 100498 100497 100496 1362137 1362136 1362135 1362134 1362133 1362132 1362131 1362130 1362129 1362128 100478 2129311 1076531 1362049 1076486 2129817 2129816 2129815 2129814 2129813 2129812 2129805 2129804 2129802 2129801 2129800 2129799 479902 479901 2129477 1076247 629480 1076242 1076241 541803 541802 280372 280371 1361968 1361967 1361966 1361965 1361964 1361963 1361962 1361961 1361960 1361959 320546 2119763 543622 541804 478825 478824 478823 421788 320545 81444 626037 626028 539056 483123 481398 481397 100733 100732 100639 625532 1083651 322674 322673 81719 81718 2118430 2118429 2118428 2118427 419801 419800 419799 419798 282991 100691 322995 322994 101824 626077 414553 398830 1311457 1916292 1911819 1911818 1911659 1911582 467629 467627 467619 467617 915347 1871507 1322185 1322183 317645 317647 1850544 1850542 1850540 283117 452742 1842045 1839305 1836011 1836010 1829900 1829319 1829318 1829317 1829316 1829315 1829314 1825459 1803187 159653 1773369 1769849 1769847 608690 310877 310875 1438761 1311513 1311512 1311511 1311510 1311509 1311631 1246120 1246119 1246118 1246117 1246116 1478293 1478292 1311642 1174278 1174276 1086972 1086974 1086976 1086978 1086978 1086976 1086974 1086972 999009 999356 999355 994866 994865 913758 913757 913756 913285 913283 926885 807138 632782 601807 546852 633938 544619 544618 453094 451275 451274 407610 407609 404371 409328 299551 299550 264742 261407 255657 250902 250525 1613674 1613673 1613672 1613671 1613670 1613304 1613303 1613302 1613240 1613239 1613238 1612181 1612180 1612179 1612178 1612177 1612176 1612175 1612174 1612173 1612172 1612171 1612170 1612169 1612168 1612167 1612166 1612165 1612164 1612163 1612162 1612161 1612160 1612159 1612158 1612157 1612156 1612155 1612154 1612153 1612152 1612151 1612150 1612149 1612148 1612147 1612146 1612145 1612144 1612143 1612142 1612141 1612140 1612139 1093120 447712 447711 447710 1587177 158542 1582223 1582222 1531531 1580792 886215 1545317 1545315 1545313 1545311 1545831 1545887 1545885 1545883 1545881 1545879 1545877 1545875 166486 1498496 1460058 972513 1009442 1009440 1009438 1009436 1009434 7413 1421808 551228 452606 32905 1377859 1364213 1364212 395407 22690 22688 22686 22684 488605 17680 1052817 1008445 1008443 992612 706811 886683 747852 939932 19003 1247377 1247375 1247373 862307 312284 999462 999460 999458 587450 763064 886209 1176397 1173557 902012 997915 997914 997913 997912 997911 997910 99790 997908 997907 997906 997905 997904 997903 997902 997901 997900 997319 997318 997317 997316 997315 997314 997313 997312 910984 910983 910982 910981 511604 169631 169629 169627 168316 168314 607633 555616 293902 485371 455288 166447 166445 166443 166435 162551 160780 552080 156719 156715 515957 515956 515955 515954 515953 459163 166953 386678 169865.

Particularly preferred allergens antigens include cat dander protein Fe1 d1 Ragweed proteins Der P1 Der P2 and Der P7 Ragweed protein amb a 1.1 a 1.2 a1.3 or a1.4 Rye grass proteins lol p1 and lol p5 Timothy grass proteins phl p1 and phl p5 Bermuda grass protein Cyn d 5 Alternaria alternate proteins Alt a 1 Alt a 2 and Enolase Alt a 6 Birch protein Bet v1 and P14 German Cockroach proteins Bla g 1 Bla g 2 Bla g 3 Bla g 4 Bla g 5 and Bla g 6 Mugwort protein Art v 1 Russian thistle protein Sal k 1 and Sal k 2 peanut Ara h1 Ara h2 Ara h3 Ara h4 Ara h5 Ara h6 plant profilins or lipid transfer proteins or a human leukocyte antigen.

Once formulated the compositions of the invention can be delivered to a subject in vivo using a variety of known routes and techniques. For example a composition can be provided as an injectable solution suspension or emulsion and administered via parenteral subcutaneous epicutaneous epidermal intradermal intramuscular intraarterial intraperitoneal intravenous injection using a conventional needle and syringe or using a liquid jet injection system. Compositions can also be administered topically to skin or mucosal tissue such as nasally intratracheally intestinal rectally or vaginally or provided as a finely divided spray suitable for respiratory or pulmonary administration. Other modes of administration include oral administration suppositories sublingual administration and active or passive transdermal delivery techniques.

Where a peptide of the invention is to be administered it is preferred to administer the peptide to a site in the body where it will have the ability to contact suitable antigen presenting cells and where it or they will have the opportunity to contact T cells of the individual. Where an APC is to be administered it is preferred to administer the APC to a site in the body where it will have the ability to contact and activate suitable T cells of the individual.

Administration of the peptides polynucleotides cells such as the composition containing a plurality of peptides may be by any suitable method as described above. Suitable amounts of the peptide may be determined empirically but typically are in the range given below. A single administration of each peptide may be sufficient to have a beneficial effect for the patient but it will be appreciated that it may be beneficial if the peptide is administered more than once in which case typical administration regimes may be for example once or twice a week for 2 4 weeks every 6 months or once a day for a week every four to six months. As will be appreciated each peptide or polynucleotide or combination of peptides and or polynucleotides may be administered to a patient singly or in combination.

Dosages for administration will depend upon a number of factors including the nature of the composition the route of administration and the schedule and timing of the administration regime. Suitable doses of a molecule of the invention may be in the order of up to 15 ng up to 20 ng up to 25 ng up to 30 ng up to 50 ng up to 100 ng up to 500 ng or more per administration. Suitable doses may be less than 15 ng but at least 1 ng or at least 2 ng or at least 5 ng or at least 50 ng or least 100 ng or at least 500 ng or at least 1 ng or at least 10 ng. For some molecules of the invention the dose used may be higher for example up to 1 mg up to 2 mg up to 3 mg up to 4 mg up to 5 mg or higher. Such doses may be provided in a liquid formulation at a concentration suitable to allow an appropriate volume for administration by the selected route.

The invention also relates to a combination of components described herein suitable for use in a treatment of the invention which are packaged in the form of a kit in a container. Such kits may comprise a series of components to allow for a treatment of the invention. For example a kit may comprise one or more different peptides polynucleotides and or cells of the invention or one or more peptides polynucleotides or cells of the invention and one or more additional therapeutic agents suitable for simultaneous administration or for sequential or separate administration. The kit may optionally contain other suitable reagent s or instructions and the like.

The regions of Amb a 1 described below were identified as potentially comprising one or more T cell epitopes 

The sequences provided for regions G I and J in the priority application GB 0815258.3 are as follows GEAAIKLTSSAGVLSCRP Region G SEQ ID NO 40 HGFFQVVNNNYDRGTYA Region I SEQ ID NO 41 and ETRRLTTSGAYN Region J SEQ ID NO 42 . These sequences have been corrected in Table 2 such that they correspond to the relevant regions from Amb a 1 isoform 1.3 full length sequence as provided below.

The regions shown in Table 2 were then further analysed to find which of them were highly conserved between the 4 different Amb a1 isoforms as shown below 1.1 1.2 1.3 and 1.4 . For the below sequences the following text styles are used to indicate regions of interest Region A Region B Region C Region D Region E Region F Region G Region H Region I Region J

The following peptides were considered to be highly conserved and therefore taken forward for further testing 

As will be apparent the sequences above are not necessarily identical to the native sequences of the regions of interest. In particular the peptides of the invention may be engineered to improve solubility and or reduce dimer formation and or reduce the likelihood of IgE cross linking relative to the native sequences. The following table Table 4 provides specific illustrations of the above principles as applied by the inventors to produce the peptides of Table 3 SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31 .

Rows highlighted in grey in the above table represent the native sequence of a region. The peptides modified according to the invention are shown beneath each native sequence. Residues in bold and underlined represent additions to or substitutions of the native sequence.

Cytokine secretion profiles from PBMC s of 50 individuals were analysed in response to the peptide stimulation using the peptides of SEQ ID NOS 1 to 31. Supernatants from the cytokine release assay were tested for the presence of IL 13 and IFN gamma using a multiplex bead array assay.

A typical cytokine release assay requires 40 10PBMC s per subject. In more detail 250 l of a 200 g ml solution of the appropriate antigen or peptide concentration is distributed into the appropriate wells of 48 well plates. Plates are the incubated in a humidified 5 CO2 incubator at 37 C. for a maximum of 4 hours. 250 l of a 5 10cell ml PBMC suspension is then added to each well and the plates returned to the incubator for 5 days. Following stimulation samples of culture supernatant are harvested for testing by multiplex bead assay according to standard protocols. The data was analysed for subjects having a response to Interferon gamma or IL 13 100 pg ml and the peptides were prioritised on the basis of the responder rate as shown below in Table 5.

RGW01 potentially substituted with RGW01A or RGW01B and one of RGW03 RGW03A or RGW03B and one of RGW04 or RGW04A.

From the remaining peptides the next most potent are RGW02 RGW09 RGW06 RGW06A RGW10 or RGW10A RGW05 or RGW05A. A preferred peptide combination may typically comprise at least one additional peptide selected from this group.

Since solubility is a key criterion for peptides to be administered to patients further in vitro solubility testing was performed to evaluate the solubility of peptides in an acidic environment pH 2.97 0.1 mM HCl 0.5 w v 1 thioglycerol ca. 46 mM 230 mM trehalose . For example RGW03B was found to have a solubility of 3.85 mg ml compared to 

A further cytokine assay was performed to evaluate IL 10 release from the same panel of individuals induced by the peptides of SEQ ID NOS. 1 to 31. Analysis of IL 10 response shows that RGW07 and RGW07B induce significant quantities of IL 10 . RGW07 on its own induced IL 10 in 49 50 individuals. A preferred peptide combination may therefore typically comprise at least one additional peptide selected from the RGW07 group. A combined analysis of the positive IFNgamma or IL 13 responses for the peptides represented in the mixture of 6 peptides identified in RGW01 RGW03B RGW04A RGW02 RGW05 RGW06A together with RGW07 gave a positive IFNgamma or IL 13 response in 49 50 subjects. Thus this peptide combination effectively covers the whole study population and complete coverage would be expected on use of improved RGW07 solubility variants see below . Peptide combinations comprising RGW01 RGW03B RGW04A RGW02 RGW05 RGW06A or variants thereof together with RGW07 or variants thereof also have the advantage of providing for a positive IL 10 response see below and .

Solubility testing showed that RGW07 had poor solubility in an acidic environment and so additional lysine residues were added to RGW07 indicated in Table 6 . The modified peptides were tested for solubility and their ability to induce IL 10 from PBMC in the presence of the mixture of peptides identified in RGW01 RGW03B RGW04A RGW02 RGW05 RGW06A . Controls included the peptide mixture with no RGW07 variant and with whole Amb a 1 allergen. The results are shown in .

Based on these analyses RGW07D was found to be preferred both for solubility and for its ability to induce IL 10 in the presence of the other six peptides.

The purpose of this assay was to identify individual peptides that are capable of activating blood basophils as a surrogate for tissue mast cells resulting in histamine release that may result in allergic reactions during therapy. Peptides or combinations of peptides that induce histamine release frequently may be considered unsuitable for inclusion in the peptide vaccine.

Histamine release requires the crosslinking of adjacent specific IgE molecules on the surface of the basophil. The peptides being evaluated were small 11 to 18 amino acids in length and should not therefore possess significant tertiary structure that would enable them to retain the conformation of an IgE binding epitope of the whole molecule. Furthermore peptide monomers in solution even if they are bound by IgE should not be able to crosslink adjacent IgE molecules.

Histamine release from fresh peripheral whole blood from ragweed allergic subjects was evaluated. Peripheral blood basophils were used as a surrogate for tissue mast cells which were not practical to assay. Blood was incubated in vitro with individual peptides identified in Example 1 RGW01 RGW02 RGW03B RGW04A RGW05 RGW06A RGW07 AND RGW07D . Additionally responses to preferred mixtures of 7 peptides identified in Example 1 were analysed. The tested preferred mixtures of 7 peptides consisted of i RGW01 RGW02 RGW03B RGW04A RGW05 RGW06A RGW07 and ii RGW01 RGW02 RGW03B RGW04A RGW05 RGW06A and RGW07D.

Histamine release in response to whole ragweed allergen extract was measured in each subject to confirm basophil sensitisation. A positive control representing total histamine release generated by freeze thawing the cells twice was included in each assay. A negative control for spontaneous histamine release was generated by incubating cells in buffer only.

The assay was performed using the Immunotech Histamine Release Immunoassay kit according to the manufacturer s instructions. Following the in vitro challenge of blood basophils with peptides peptide mixes whole allergen or buffer in microtitre plate wells supernatants were removed and the histamine in the samples converted to acyl histamine. Acylated samples were tested by a competitive acyl histamine ELISA.

Peptides were assayed for their ability to induce histamine release over a 5 log 10 range 1 to 10 000 ng ml . The concentration range assayed was selected based on theoretical in vivo doses of peptide that may be achieved during therapy. For example a 31 g dose approximately 3 nmol peptide equivalent of each peptide entering a blood volume of 5 liters would result in a blood concentration of 6 ng ml at the lower end of the histamine release assay dose range. Whole ragweed allergen extract was used over a slightly higher concentration range 10 to 100 000 ng ml .

Single measurements were performed for each dilution. After completion of the ELISA individual histamine levels were determined by interpolation from the standard curve generated in the ELISA assay. Results from samples were adjusted to allow for dilution. Where two or more consecutive dilutions of a peptide allergen preparation elicited 15 of the total histamine release seen in the freeze thawed positive control 15 of positive control or where a single value of 15 of positive control was achieved at the highest concentration tested 10 ng mL for peptides this was considered a positive histamine release .

A total of 49 histamine release assays were completed during the study. Of these 6 assays were rejected due to unacceptably high levels 15 of positive control of spontaneous release in the medium plus buffer negative control wells. Therefore a total of 43 subjects were included in the analysis. 20 of these subjects were tested with the RGW07D peptide and the mix containing it. The study findings are summarised in Table 7.

Results are shown for the highest dose of peptides tested in the assay 10 g ml . The ragweed allergen control induced significant histamine release in 65 of the 43 subjects. Even at the lowest concentration of 10 ng ml the whole allergen extract induced significant histamine release in 22 43 51 of individuals with a mean release for the 43 subjects of 30 of positive control. The crude whole ragweed extract contains approximately 0.5 of major allergen Amb a1 emphasizing the exquisite sensitivity of the in vitro basophil assay for assessing the safety of the peptides which at 10 ug ml are present at 10 000 fold excess over Amb a1 in the crude extract at 10 ng ml.

The data shows that the eight individual peptides do not elicit significant histamine release from the basophils of ragweed allergic individuals when compared to whole allergen. A combination of peptides RGW01 RGW02 RGW03B RGW04A RGW05 RGW06A RGW07 also failed to elicit significant histamine release in the 43 subjects.

The combination of peptides RGW01 RGW02 RGW03B RGW04A RGW05 RGW06A and RGW07D gave a weak positive response in 2 individuals with values of 16 and 20 of positive control at the highest peptide concentration of 10 g mL. The release values at the four lower concentrations tested were 1000 fold excess over the expected blood concentrations it is not anticipated that this peptide combination will cause significant histamine release either by IgE mediated or direct peptide mediated basophil or mast cell activation and degranulation.

A preferred mixture of 7 peptides consisting of peptides RGW01 RGW02 RGW03B RGW04A RGW05 RGW06A and RGW07D is tested in a randomised placebo controlled blind clinical trial. The efficacy of this mixture in reducing allergic symptoms is evaluated. The study design of the clinical trial is in accordance with good clinical practice guidelines.

Ragweed allergic subjects are screened to identify late phase skin response LPSR and conjunctival provocation test CPT scores following challenge with ragweed allergen. Details of LPSR and CPT assays are provided below. Titrations are performed in order to identify the minimally effective concentrations of whole allergen for generation of an appropriate LPSR and CPT score. Blood samples are taken to evaluate levels of ragweed specific IgE.

Baseline skin and conjunctival responses to ragweed allergen for all subjects are established using a Baseline Challenge which takes place between 1 to 4 weeks prior to study medication administration. An intradermal injection of ragweed allergen at the minimally effective concentration identified in screening is administered into the volar surface of a selected forearm. Subjects are assessed to ensure that they experience a early phase skin response EPSR a CPT and a Late Phase Skin Response LPSR to whole ragweed allergen and the magnitude of the baseline reaction is recorded as follows 

15 minutes 3 minutes after the injection the outline of any EPSR is drawn onto the skin with a ballpoint pen. The longest and orthogonal diameters are measured and recorded for each response and the area of the response in each arm is calculated.

At a minimum of 30 minutes after the injection ragweed allergen at the minimally effective concentration identified in screening is instilled into a selected eye. Subject rated itching and observer rated redness and watering is then scored after 5 minutes 2 minutes . The scoring system is shown in Table 8 below.

Eight hours 10 minutes after each injection the outline of any late phase response is drawn onto the skin with a ballpoint pen. The longest and orthogonal diameters are measured and recorded for each response and the area of the response in each arm is calculated.

Subjects who produce a suitable baseline reaction are assigned to dosing groups randomised and entered into the Treatment Phase.

The Treatment Phase consists of a period of 6 weeks for each subject. During this period one group of subjects receive a single intradermal injection of either the preferred mixture 0.03 0.3 3 1 12 nmol of each peptide per dose or diluent placebo at Treatment Phase Visit 1 on day one. Intradermal injections are made into the flexor surface of the selected forearm. A repeat administration is then performed at Treatment Phase Visits 2 3 and 4 each two weeks apart 14 2 days . A cohort of 10 subjects receives treatment at each dose level 8 receive the preferred mixture and 2 placebo . The first cohort receives 0.03 nmol of each peptide in the mixture and each subsequent cohort in the group receives the next higher dose level.

19 to 28 weeks after the beginning of treatment subjects have their skin and conjunctival responses to whole allergen retested in a post treatment challenge PTC . Skin responses to ragweed allergen are assessed by measurement of the EPSR and LPSR as described above. The average area of response is calculated as described above. Conjunctival responses to ragweed allergen are assessed by measurement of the CPT as described above. Blood samples are taken for measurement of ragweed specific IgE.

The average EPSR area after treatment is compared to the baseline EPSR area for each subject. The overall change in EPSR area for all ten patients in each cohort is then evaluated. The average LPSR area after treatment is compared to the baseline LPSR area for each subject. The overall change in LPSR area for all ten patients in each cohort is then evaluated. The CPT score after treatment is compared to the baseline CPT score for each subject. The overall change in CPT score for all ten patients in each cohort is then evaluated.

I. A composition for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising at least three polypeptides wherein the polypeptides are independently selected from any of the following 

which sequence is capable of tolerising an individual to any of the sequences of i and has a length of at least 9 amino acids and wherein said homologue has at least 65 homology to any 9 contiguous amino acids in any of the sequences of i .

a is capable of tolerising at least 50 or at least 60 of a panel of ragweed allergic individuals in the population and or

b comprises at least three polypeptides selected from item I i or variants thereof as defined in item I ii or I iii and or

c comprises at least one further polypeptide up to a total of thirteen unique different polypeptides wherein the further polypeptides 

III. The composition according to item I or II comprising at least one polypeptide according to item II c which is 9 to 20 or 13 to 17 amino acids in length and or wherein said polypeptide has at least 70 sequence identity to at least 9 or more contiguous amino acids in any of SEQ ID NO 1 to 31.

IV. A composition according to any one of the preceding items comprising at least one polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of RGW01 RGW01A or RGW01B SEQ ID NOS 1 2 or 3 or a variant thereof as defined in item I ii or iii .

V. A composition according to item IV wherein the at least one polypeptide is the polypeptide RGW01 or a variant thereof.

VI. A composition according to item IV or V comprising at least one polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of RGW03B RGW03A or RGW03 SEQ ID NOS 9 8 or 7 or a variant thereof as defined in item I ii or iii 

VII. A composition according to item VI wherein the at least one polypeptide is the polypeptide RGW03B or a variant thereof.

VIII. A composition according to any one of items IV to VII comprising at least one polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of RGW04 or RGW04A SEQ ID NOS 10 or 11 or a variant thereof as defined in item I ii or iii .

IX. A composition according to any one of items IV to VIII comprising at least one polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of RGW02 RGW09 RGW06 RGW06A RGW10 or RGW10A RGW05 or RGW05A SEQ ID NOS 4 26 14 15 27 12 or 13 or a variant thereof as defined in item I ii or iii .

X. A composition according to any one of items IV to IX comprising at least one polypeptide selected from a polypeptide of RGW07 RGW07C or RGW07D SEQ ID NOS 16 19 or 20 or a variant thereof as defined in item I ii or iii .

a at least one of the polypeptides of RGW01 RGW01A or RGW01B SEQ ID NOS 1 2 or 3 or a variant thereof as defined in item I ii or iii and

b at least one of the polypeptides of RGW03B RGW03A or RGW03 SEQ ID NOS 9 8 or 7 or a variant thereof as defined in item I ii or iii and

c at least one of the polypeptides of RGW04 or RGW04A SEQ ID NOS 10 or 11 or a variant thereof as defined in item I ii or iii and optionally

d at least one of the polypeptides of RGW02 RGW09 RGW06 RGW06A RGW10 or RGW10A RGW05 or RGW05A SEQ ID NOS 4 26 14 15 27 12 or 13 or a variant thereof as defined in item I ii or iii and optionally

e at least one of the polypeptides of RGW07 RGW07C or RGW07D SEQ ID NOS 16 19 or 20 or a variant thereof as defined in item I ii or iii .

XIII. The composition according to any one of the preceding items wherein one or more of the polypeptides have one or more modifications selected from the following 

 iii one or more hydrogen on the side chain amines of Arginine and or Lysine replaced with a methylene group 

XIV. The composition according to any one of the preceding items wherein at least one of the peptides has been engineered to be soluble such that it comprises 

i N terminal to the residues of the peptide which flank a T cell epitope one to six contiguous amino acids corresponding to the two to six contiguous amino acids immediately N terminal to said residues in the sequence of the protein from which the peptide derives and or

ii C terminal to the residues of the peptide which flank a T cell epitope one to six contiguous amino acids corresponding to the one to six contiguous amino acids immediately C terminal to the said residues in the sequence of the protein from which the peptide derives or

iii N and or C terminal to the residues of the peptide which flank a T cell epitope at least one amino acid selected from arginine lysine histidine glutamate and aspartate 

wherein the polypeptide has a solubility of at least 3.5 mg ml and the T cell epitope has a solubility of less than 3.5 mg ml.

XV. The composition according to any one of the preceding items wherein at least one of the peptides has been engineered to be soluble such that additionally 

i any cysteine residues in the native sequence of the peptide are replaced with serine or 2 aminobutyric acid and or

ii any hydrophobic residues in the upto three amino acids at the N and or C terminus of the native sequence of the peptide which are not comprised in a T cell epitope are deleted and or

iii any two consecutive amino acids comprising the sequence Asp Gly in the upto four amino acids at the N and or C terminus of the native sequence of the peptide which are not comprised in a T cell epitope are deleted.

XVI. The composition according to any one of the preceding items wherein each polypeptide has a concentration in the range of 0.03 to 200 nmol ml 0.3 to 200 nmol ml or 30 to 120 nmol ml.

XVII. A composition for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising at least three polynucleotide sequences which when expressed cause the production of a composition as defined in any one of items I to XVI.

XVIII. The composition according to item XVII wherein each polynucleotide sequence capable of expressing a different polypeptide is present in the same or different polynucleotide vectors.

XIX. A vector for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising at least three polynucleotide sequences which each encode a different polypeptide as defined in item I and optionally one or more further polynucleotide sequences which encode different polypeptides as defined in item II.

XX. A vector for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising between three and thirteen different polynucleotide sequences which each encode a different polypeptide as defined in item I or II wherein at least one polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide selected from each of the following groups of polypeptides 

XXI. A product containing between three and thirteen polypeptides wherein at least one polypeptide is selected from each of the following groups of polypeptides 

wherein each different polypeptide is for simultaneous separate or sequential use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation.

XXII. A product containing between three and thirteen polynucleotide sequences which each encode a different polypeptide as defined in item I or II wherein at least one polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide selected from each of the following groups of polypeptides 

and wherein each different polypeptide is for simultaneous separate or sequential use in the prevention or treatment of allergy to ragweed in a human.

XXIII. A pharmaceutical formulation for use in preventing or treating allergy to ragweed by tolerisation comprising a composition according to any one of items I to XVIII a vector according to any one of items XIX or XX or a product according to any one of items XXI or XXII and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

XXIV. The composition vector or product according to item XXIII formulated for oral administration nasal administration epicutaneous administration subcutaneous administration sublingual administration intradermal administration buccal administration or for administration by inhalation or by injection.

XXV. The composition as defined in any one of items I to XVIII or product as defined in item XXI or XXII additionally comprising a further polypeptide allergen for use in tolerising an individual to the further polypeptide allergen.

XXVI. An in vitro method of determining whether T cells recognize a polypeptide as defined in item I comprising contacting said T cells with said polypeptide and detecting whether said T cells are stimulated by said polypeptide.

response to a ragweed allergen the method comprising testing whether the individual has T cells which respond to a composition as defined in any one of items I to XVIII thereby determining whether the individual has or is at risk of the condition.

XXVIII. A method according to item XXVII wherein a T cell immune response to said composition is measured by contacting the composition with T cells in a sample taken from the subject under conditions which allow the composition and the T cells to interact and determining whether or not any of the T cells are stimulated and thereby determining whether or not a T cell immune response is present or absent.

