---

title: Methods, systems, and computer readable mediums for generating instruction data to update components in a converged infrastructure system
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer readable mediums for generating instruction data to update components in a converged infrastructure system are disclosed. According to one example, a method includes identifying components in a converged infrastructure system that require remediation in order to comply with a defined converged infrastructure configuration and identifying remediation content to enable each of the identified components to be compliant with the defined converged infrastructure configuration. The method further includes determining a remediation process based on the identified remediation content associated with the components of the converged infrastructure system, wherein the determined remediation process includes an order of steps used to update the identified components in the converged infrastructure system. The method also includes generating instruction data indicating the determined remediation process to be applied to the identified components in the converged infrastructure system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09389991&OS=09389991&RS=09389991
owner: VCE COMPANY, LLC
number: 09389991
owner_city: Richardson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131230
---
This application relates and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 878 325 filed on Sep. 16 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The subject matter described herein relates to updating hardware and software system components. More specifically the subject matter relates to methods systems and computer readable mediums for generating instruction data to update components in a converged infrastructure system.

In the converged infrastructure system CIS industry CIS models may be validated to run very specific versions of firmware and software that have been thoroughly tested and verified to function properly when combined. This validation process enables customers i.e. system administrators or operators to avoid spending a significant amount of time conducting their own validations to determine versions of compatible CIS component software. Notably the aforementioned validation process results in a Release Certification Matrix RCM or some other type of defined converged infrastructure CI configuration model for a specific CIS model.

Methods systems and computer readable mediums for generating instruction data to update components in a converged infrastructure system are disclosed. According to one embodiment a method includes identifying components in a converged infrastructure system that require remediation in order to comply with a defined converged infrastructure configuration and identifying remediation content to enable each of the identified components to be compliant with the defined converged infrastructure configuration. The method further includes determining a remediation process based on the identified remediation content associated with the components of the converged infrastructure system wherein the determined remediation process includes an order of steps used to update the identified components in the converged infrastructure system. The method also includes generating instruction data indicating the determined remediation process to be applied to the identified components in the converged infrastructure system.

The subject matter described herein discloses methods systems and computer readable mediums for generating instruction data to update components in a converged infrastructure system CIS . As used herein CISs such as Vblock Systems from VCE Company LLC can comprise multiple components or elements in a preconfigured or prepackaged computing platform. For example a CIS can comprise a computing platform or unit associated with racks of physical components and related software for performing virtualization and or other functions. In some embodiments a CIS can comprise multiple components that include one or more computing components software components networking components storage components hardware components and or firmware components. For example an exemplary CIS can comprise data storage devices servers networking equipment and software for managing physical resources and or virtualized resources e.g. virtual servers .

The disclosed subject matter assists a system administrator e.g. a CIS administrator to facilitate the migration of a CIS from a non compliant CI configuration to a supported CI configuration. For example if the CIS is not in a supported configuration e.g. CIS components include outdated firmware BIOS software etc. the disclosed subject matter enables the system administrator to properly remediate one or more of the components within the CIS so that the components are compliant with a supported CIS configuration. Notably the disclosed subject matter is capable of conducting an assessment at the converged infrastructure system level to determine what CIS components require an update e.g. a software and or firmware update and subsequently generate instruction data e.g. a PDF file or equivalent that specifies step by step instructions to be used by a system administrator or other user to conduct a manual CIS update e.g. a remediation process .

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the subject matter described herein examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In some embodiments each of CIS CIS CIS and CIS may be configured to provide data center functionality cloud service functionality and or other functionality. In some embodiments each of CIS CIS CIS and CIS can comprise similar components and may be located at one or more physical locations or sites. Each of CIS CIS CIS and CIS may be capable of communicating with each other and may communicate with various other entities such as network nodes e.g. servers hosting online sites and users. For example user e.g. a human system administrator or an automated system may use an application programming interface API or web based graphical user interface GUI to access CIS and or a related CIS component for conducting a CI configuration update. In some embodiments user may establish communication directly to CIS without use of network .

In some embodiments CIS can comprise a CIS manager e.g. a CIS management module a repository virtualized infrastructure and or physical infrastructure . CIS manager may be any suitable entity for managing aspects of CIS . CIS manager may be configured to communicate with various CIS components such as virtual resources physical resources and or software for managing various components. For example CIS manager can be configured to access each CIS component within CIS and return relevant information to user . For example CIS manager may be configured to manage performance resource utilization levels and other aspects associated with virtualized infrastructure and or physical infrastructure . In some embodiments CIS manager comprises VCE Vision Intelligent Operations software and or firmware. In some embodiments CIS manager may have access to remediation content such as remediation software content that comprises binary software needed to remediate and update each CIS component in one or more of CIS CIS CIS and CIS .

Virtualized infrastructure can comprise a virtualization environment configured to simulate components of a computing device e.g. a processor system memory and a storage device for executing one or more virtual machines VMs e.g. VM VM and VM . Each of VM VM and VM may be configured to perform various functions and or services such as web server functions or cloud application services and may interact with various nodes components and or users.

In some embodiments virtualized infrastructure may be associated with one or more virtual entities. Each virtual entity can comprise one or more CIS or portions therein e.g. resources from one or more CISs. In some embodiments virtualization manager may allow logical entities to be created deleted or modified using an API and or GUI. Virtualization manager may be any suitable entity e.g. software executing in a virtual machine for managing aspects associated with virtualized infrastructure . In some embodiments virtualization manager may be configured to provide data center management through one or more communications interfaces. For example virtualization manager may communicate with one or more third party management tools using APIs.

Physical infrastructure can comprise hardware resources such as network components servers sometimes referred to as hosts and at least one storage area network SAN . Hardware resources may be communicatively connected to various other components in CIS and other entities. Hardware resources can be configured to be used by one or more virtual entities. In some embodiments network components e.g. network switches may be configured to enable communication between the components in CIS . For example server and SAN may be used in implementing VM and VM and server and SAN may be used in implementing VM and virtualization manager . In some embodiments one or more file share storage FSS systems not shown can be utilized to provide file system level access to a CIS across a local area network LAN .

Physical resource manager may be any suitable entity e.g. software executed in a virtual machine for managing aspects associated with physical infrastructure . In some embodiments physical resource manager may be configured to provision hardware resources via one or more communications interfaces. For example physical resource manager may provision hardware resources for implementing one or more virtual entities in virtualized infrastructure . In some embodiments physical resource manager may comprise any management element or entity such as a unified infrastructure manager UIM or a unified computing system UCS director entity which is configured to provision the physical hardware of CIS .

Repository may include any data storage unit e.g. a database or plurality of databases that may be configured to store remediation software content e.g. various versions of CIS component software and or firmware that may be utilized to migrate to a defined CI configuration used to update CIS components. In some embodiments the remediation software content can comprise at least one firmware package a BIOS package a software package and or any other package configured to contain binary software content. Although depicts repository as a local data storage unit residing on CIS repository can also be embodied as a data storage unit located at an online location e.g. a public distributed content site on a local proxy server in a customer s or system administrator s environment or on a different CIS without departing from the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

In some embodiments repository can be provisioned with remediation software content sourced from a second repository e.g. from a second CIS or from an online location such as a known online site that may be hosted by the creators of the remediation software content . For example the remediation software content may be obtained or copied from a second repository e.g. a second CIS an online site online repository or any other online location over network using secure copy SCP protocol file transfer protocol FTP or any like protocol. In some embodiments CIS and a second CIS not shown may be located at a common site and can be communicatively connected by a wired connection. In such a configuration repository may be provisioned with remediation software content from the second CIS via the wired connection. It is understood that the provisioning of repository with remediation software content with the exemplary methods described above may be conducted via any automated or automatic manner. In addition the provisioning of remediation software content copied from a second repository and installed into repository may be conducted using any form of transportable media such as a compact disc CD universal serial bus USB device and the like. In some embodiments repository may be provisioned with remediation software content prior to CIS manager determining the defined CI configuration to be applied and or the identification of CIS components that require an update in accordance to a defined CI configuration. Additional description and functionality of repository is provided below. It will be appreciated that is for illustrative purposes and that various components their locations and or their functions as described above in relation to may be changed altered added or removed.

In some embodiments update module may comprise an update framework module or any suitable entity e.g. software executing on a processor for facilitating a CI configuration update. For example update module may be configured to receive CI configuration selection information conduct a compliance check to determine if CIS is compliant with the selected CIS configuration instruct access control module to conduct authorization and authentication processes identify obtain remediation software content data from repository or other location e.g. via network and perform any additional actions required to conduct a CI configuration update on CIS .

In some embodiments update module can interact with access control module . Access control module can comprise any suitable entity e.g. hardware firmware or software in combination with hardware and or firmware for configuring and or implementing access authentication and or authorization functions. Access control module can comprise or provide one or more communication interfaces for interacting with user virtualized infrastructure physical infrastructure and or other entities such as nodes in network CIS CIS and CIS as depicted in . In some embodiments access control module can be configured to perform an authentication and or authorization check on a system administrator e.g. user seeking access to CIS or submitting CI configuration selection information. For example access control module can utilize a central authentication service CAS or another authentication mechanism for authenticating a user. After authenticating and or authorizing user access control module can allow the authorized user to view and or modify access control related settings e.g. via a GUI generated by user interface module or an API if user is an automated system . In some embodiments access policies utilized by access control module can comprise one or more permissions to utilize a service a resource or a component associated with performing a CI configuration update.

In some embodiments update module may include a compliance check module that can be configured to identify the CIS components that require remediation and or updating in order to comply with a designated CI configuration e.g. as selected by a system administrator or operator . In some embodiments update module may also include a system library not shown that may be used in conjunction with a compliance check module in order to communicate with and obtain data from the CIS components. For example upon receiving the selection information associated with a defined CI configuration to be applied to a CIS compliance check module may be configured to compare revision identifiers of the CIS components e.g. the revision version number of the associated CIS component firmware BIOS software drivers etc. associated with the selected defined CI configuration to the revision identifiers e.g. current revision software numbers of the CIS components presently utilized by CIS . These revision identifiers or version numbers may comprise any number or combination of letters numbers and or symbols. If the current revision numbers of CIS components in CIS do not match the revision numbers specified in the CI configuration then compliance check module may identify the non matching CIS components as non compliant CIS components. Compliance check module may subsequently generate a record listing these non compliant CIS components i.e. CIS components that require remediation in order to comply with the selected CI configuration for use by update module .

In some embodiments update module may also be configured to determine e.g. identify and or locate the remediation software content needed in order to update each of the identified CIS components to become compliant with the defined CI configuration. For example update module may determine whether the remediation software content e.g. update software of the requisite revision number for the identified non compliant CIS components is stored in one or more locations on repository or in some other repository e.g. in a second CIS or an online location . If the remediation software content is not stored in repository update module may send a query message to request the transfer of the remediation software content to repository or to a request for location information e.g. an IP address database address etc. indicating one or more locations of the identified remediation software content on the second repository. In some embodiments update module may also be configured to analyze the identified remediation software content to derive a remediation process for the non compliant CIS components. For example update module can be configured to consider the non compliant CIS components associated with the identified remediation software content to determine one or more orders or sequences that the non compliant CIS components can be updated. In some embodiments update module can be configured to determine an optimized remediation process that takes into account the interoperability of the non compliant CIS components within a CIS. For example update module can be configured to process the identified remediation software content data identifying the non compliant CIS components and or other system data in order to derive the remediation process. By utilizing at least a portion of the aforementioned data update module can determine one or more optimized remediation processes that omit or collapse superfluous steps. Exemplary optimized remediation processes determined by update module may comprise i the minimum number and order of steps needed to update all of the non compliant CIS components in the CIS ii a specific ordering of steps that would introduce the least amount of downtime or disruption to the CIS and or the like.

In some embodiments instruction data generation module may be configured to generate instruction data specifying the remediation process determined by update module . For example upon determining the remediation process to be applied to the non compliant CIS components update module may provide an order of steps included in the remediation process to instruction data generation module . After receiving this information instruction data generation module may be configured either automatically or in response to a request by a system administrator to generate the instruction data. The instruction data may be embodied in any one of a number of different forms or formats. For example the instruction data may comprise an electronic document form e.g. an electronic PDF file or Word file a physical document form e.g. a document printout or any other tangible form and or a visual display form e.g. a screen display . Instruction data generation module may utilize any equipment e.g. a printer GUI or computer readable medium to generate the instruction data.

At step selection information indicating a defined CI configuration to be applied to a CIS is received. In some embodiments CIS manager may be configured to receive selection information that specifies a desired CI configuration to be applied to a CIS e.g. CIS in from a system administrator. For example a system administrator e.g. user in can utilize a GUI generated by user interface module to provide the selection information to CIS manager in CIS for processing. In other embodiments an automated system configured to select and determine CI configurations to be used to remediate a CIS may be used to generate and send CI configuration selection information to CIS manager .

At step components in the CIS are identified. In some embodiments CIS manager utilizes compliance check module to identify components of CIS that require remediation in order to comply with the selected CI configuration. For example compliance check module may be configured to compare the revision numbers of the CIS components associated with the selected CI configuration to the revision numbers of the actual CIS components in the CIS. If the revision numbers of CIS components do not match the revision numbers specified in the CI configuration then those associated CIS components i.e. non compliant CIS components require remediation to comply with the selected CI configuration.

At step remediation content is identified. In some embodiments update module in CIS manager is configured to determine e.g. identify and or locate the remediation content such as remediation software content needed in order to update each of the identified CIS components to become compliant with the defined CI configuration. For example update module may determine whether remediation software content e.g. update software of the requisite revision number for the identified non compliant CIS components is currently stored one or more locations in repository . If any portion of the remediation software content e.g. a remediation software content package for one or more non compliant CIS components is not currently stored in repository then update module may be configured to send a query message to a second repository. For example update module message can send a query message to either an online location repository or to another repository located on a second CIS in order to determine whether that repository contains the necessary remediation software content. In some embodiments the query message sent by update module may include either a request to transfer the identified remediation software content to repository or a request for location information e.g. an IP address database address etc. indicating the location of the identified remediation software content on the second repository.

At step a remediation process based on the identified remediation content is determined. In some embodiments update module analyzes the identified remediation software content to derive a remediation process for the non compliant CIS components. For example update module can be configured to consider the non compliant CIS components associated with the identified remediation software content to determine an order e.g. an order comprising sequential steps and or contemporaneous steps in which the non compliant CIS components are to be updated. Notably the remediation process derived by update module includes a number of ordered steps that may be followed to update the non compliant CIS components. In some embodiments update module can be configured to determine one or more optimized remediation processes that account for the interoperability of the CIS components being updated. For example update module can be configured analyze the identified remediation content data identifying the non compliant CIS components and or other system data in order to determine the remediation process. In some embodiments update module can be configured to determine the minimum number of steps that is needed to update all of the non compliant CIS components in the CIS. Likewise update module may be configured to determine a specific ordering of steps that would introduce the least amount of downtime or disruption to the CIS. In some embodiments the defined CI configuration itself specifies the remediation process e.g. the CI configuration indicates a suggested order to update the non compliant CIS components .

At step instruction data indicating the determined remediation process is generated. In some embodiments instruction data generation module may utilize e.g. obtain access to or be provided with the determined remediation process from update module and subsequently generate instruction data that sets forth the determined remediation process to be applied to the identified CIS components i.e. the non compliant CIS components . In some alternative embodiments the remediation software content may be identified e.g. update module specifies the requisite software version number but is not located in step . In such embodiments the instruction data may direct the system administrator to attempt to locate the remediation software content online.

As indicated above the subject matter disclosed herein can be implemented in software in combination with hardware and or firmware. For example the subject matter described herein can be implemented in software executed by a processor. In one exemplary implementation the subject matter described herein can be implemented using a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable mediums suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include non transitory devices such as disk memory devices chip memory devices programmable logic devices and application specific integrated circuits. In addition a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein can be located on a single device or computing platform or can be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms. As used the present disclosure the terms function or module refer to hardware firmware or software in combination with hardware and or firmware for implementing features described herein.

It will be understood that various details of the subject matter described herein may be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation as the subject matter described herein is defined by the claims as set forth hereinafter.

