---

title: Techniques for populating a content stream on a mobile device
abstract: Techniques for populating a content stream of a mobile application are described. A content request for content to be presented in a personalized activity or content stream of a member of a social networking service is communicated from a mobile computing device to a content server. The content request includes a member identifier, location information indicating the current location of the member, and/or an activity status identifier indicating an inferred physical activity state of the member. Using the information received with the content request, a content selection and relevance module will process the request and provide contextually relevant content for presentation in the member's activity or content stream, at the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09225522&OS=09225522&RS=09225522
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09225522
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131227
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 141 934 filed on Dec. 27 2013.

The present application generally relates to content streams and associated content relevance and selection algorithms. More specifically the present application describes various techniques by which content items are selected for presentation in a content stream of a software application residing and executing on a mobile computing device.

Many network and or web based applications and services that are currently in use or in development have a social aspect. For example users of these applications are encouraged to establish connections with other users or follow other users for the purpose of forming virtual communities forums groups and or teams via which the users can collaborate interact with one another and exchange information. Similarly users of these applications may be encouraged to follow certain content sources or subscribe to receive information relating to certain companies people topics web pages and so forth. With many applications and or services that have a social aspect one of the primary content delivery mechanisms is a component that is frequently referred to as a feed or stream. For purposes of the present application the terms feed and stream are meant to be synonymous with a variety of other names by which skilled artisans frequently refer to a feed or stream including such terms as activity stream activity feed content stream content feed update stream update feed and news feed among others.

Generally a feed or stream consists of a list of content items that have been selected for presentation to a particular person e.g. a user or member of a computer or web based service in a user interface of a software application. Typically the content items that are presented to a particular user in his or her feed or stream are selected specifically for that particular user for example based on the content items having a relationship or association with some entity e.g. person company topic web page etc. with which the user is also related or associated. In many instances the volume of content items available for presentation to any one user far exceeds the amount that user can practically view and consume. Accordingly many applications and or services have some algorithmic means for determining what specific content items are to be presented to any particular user in that user s feed or stream.

For instance the content items that are presented in a particular user s feed may be selected for example using a content relevance or selection algorithm based on the content items having a relationship to some entity with which the user is also associated or related. In the context of a social network service for example many of the content items that appear in a particular user s feed or stream are content items e.g. individual messages or postings that have been generated posted or published by other members of the social network service with whom the particular user is connected or following. Of course other factors may also be used in various content relevance or selection algorithms for purposes of selecting and ordering content items to present to a user to include such factors as the time that a content item was initially posted published or shared and the popularity of a content item as determined by the amount and timing of social interactions e.g. comments likes shares selections etc. that a content item has received. Although content relevance and selection algorithms generally improve the overall user experience by presenting to users content items that are predicted to be of interest to the user in many instances the content relevance and selection algorithms leave much to be desired.

When viewing a feed or stream within an application executing on a mobile computing device a user frequently must wait while the mobile computing device requests receives and renders the content items in the feed presented on the display of the mobile computing device. For example one conventional way users invoke a request for content items presented in a stream or feed is by performing what is commonly referred to as a pull to refresh gesture. As illustrated in a content stream with various stale content items is shown. By simply making a pull down gesture on the touch screen display of the computing device as shown with reference number A a user can invoke a request to refresh the content items presented in the content stream. Accordingly upon completion of the pull to refresh gesture reference B a request is communicated from the mobile computing device to a server where the request is processed and content items are selected. In processing the request the server will identify and select the most relevant content items order those content items and then communicate those content items over a network to the mobile computing device where the content items are ultimately rendered for presentation to the user. Depending on various factors for example such as the availability bandwidth and latency of a wireless communications network over which the mobile computing device is communicating the perceived delay and thus frustration e.g. C experienced by the viewing user may be significant.

The present disclosure describes methods systems and computer program products for populating a content stream or content feed with current and relevant content items on a mobile computing device. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments may be implemented without each and every specific detail set forth herein. Further to avoid obscuring the inventive concepts in unnecessary detail well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques that are not germane for purposes of conveying an understanding of the inventive subject matter have not been presented in detail.

Consistent with some embodiments a mobile application residing and executing on a mobile computing device such as a mobile phone or tablet computer includes a content delivery and presentation mechanism referred to herein as a content stream. In general the content stream presents content items that are received from a content server after those content items have been selected specifically for the user by the content server. In order to eliminate frustrating delays encountered when a user is waiting for content items to be received from the server and rendered on the display in response to the user initiating a manual content request as illustrated in the mobile application includes logic for predicting when a user is most likely to access the content stream for viewing. Accordingly with some embodiments a content request is automatically communicated from the mobile computing device to the content server when certain predefined conditions are satisfied. This allows the mobile application to pre fetch relevant and timely content items that are to be presented in the content stream prior to the user taking any action to actually view the content stream.

For example the mobile application may analyze a variety of data signals to identify patterns that can be used to predict a set of conditions that are most likely to occur immediately before a user views his or her personalized content stream. With some embodiments the data signals that are analyzed and upon which the predefined conditions are established include at least temporal information location information and information concerning the activity state of a user. For instance a user may tend to initiate a manual content request or view his or her personalized content stream at a particular time of the day or day of the week. Similarly a user may tend to initiate a manual content request or view his or her personalized content stream from a particular location e.g. his or her office a coffee shop etc. . Additionally a user may tend to initiate a manual content request or view his or her personalized content stream while in a particular activity state e.g. walking running sitting standing driving or riding in a vehicle etc. or after having exhibited a particular pattern of activity states e.g. walking for ten minutes and then sitting still for two minutes . Accordingly by analyzing these various data signals in connection with a user s activity the mobile application can detect patterns in a user s behavior and establish some predefined conditions that when satisfied will cause the mobile application to automatically i.e. without explicit user interaction communicate a content request to a content server. As such the mobile application will receive relevant and timely content items from the content server. Thus when the user opens the mobile application to view the content stream the pre fetched relevant and timely content items can be immediately presented and the user does not experience any delays associated with retrieving content items in response to a manual user initiated content request.

Many of the data signals used in establishing the predefined conditions for automatically requesting content for the content stream are derived or generated by sensors of the mobile computing device or sensors in the immediate environment of the mobile computing device. For example the location of the mobile computing device may be derived via an on board global positioning system GPS component with WiFi or other radio signal triangulation using a WiFi radio transceiver or by receiving a signal e.g. a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE broadcast from a device in the environment of the mobile computing device such as the case might be with an indoor positioning system such as iBeacons or a similar technology. Similarly a user s activity state may be inferred by analyzing data signals derived or generated by sensors of the user s mobile computing device. For instance by analyzing information derived from or generated by an accelerometer gyroscope and or compass the user s physical activity state e.g. walking running sitting standing driving or riding in a vehicle etc. can be inferred based on the motion and orientation etc. of the mobile computing device. With some embodiments one or more network connected sensors may communicate information to the mobile computing device. For example a user may wear an activity or fitness tracker device which communicates activity data to the mobile computing device. Accordingly information such as a person s heart rate or steps per minute or similar information may be used to infer an activity state of the user. With some embodiments the location information may also be considered when inferring the user s activity state.

Consistent with another aspect of the inventive subject matter a mobile application that provides a content stream on a mobile computing device includes with a content request that is communicated to a content server information identifying the current location of the mobile computing device and or information identifying a user s inferred activity state. Accordingly when the content server receives a content request from a mobile computing device and the request includes such information the content server can use the received information to select content items that may be relevant particularly in the context of the user s current location and or current activity state. Various embodiments of the inventive subject matter presented herein provide the aforementioned features and advantages as well as other features and advantages which will be readily apparent from the following description of the various figures.

As shown in the social networking system is generally based on a three tiered architecture consisting of a front end layer application logic layer and data layer. As is understood by skilled artisans in the relevant computer and Internet related arts each module or engine shown in represents a set of executable software instructions and the corresponding hardware e.g. memory and processor for executing the instructions. To avoid obscuring the inventive subject matter with unnecessary detail various functional modules and engines that are not germane to conveying an understanding of the inventive subject matter have been omitted from . However a skilled artisan will readily recognize that various additional functional modules and engines may be used with a social networking system such as that illustrated in to facilitate additional functionality that is not specifically described herein. Furthermore the various functional modules and engines depicted in may reside on a single server computer or may be distributed across several server computers in various arrangements. Moreover although depicted in as a three tiered architecture the inventive subject matter is by no means limited to such an architecture.

As shown in the front end layer consists of a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices including one or more mobile computing devices and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client computing devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The client devices may be executing conventional web browser applications or applications that have been developed for a specific platform to include any of a wide variety of mobile computing devices and mobile specific operating systems.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases including a database for storing data for various entities of the social graph including member profiles company profiles educational institution profiles as well as information concerning various online or offline groups. Of course with various alternative embodiments any number of other entities might be included in the social graph and as such various other databases may be used to store data corresponding with other entities.

Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social networking service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birth date gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors etc. current job title job description industry employment history skills professional organizations interests and so on. This information is stored for example as profile data in the database with reference number .

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social networking service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member connects with or follows another member the member who is connected to or following the other member may receive messages or updates e.g. content items in his or her personalized content stream about various activities undertaken by the other member. More specifically the messages or updates presented in the content stream may be authored and or published or shared by the other member or may be automatically generated based on some activity or event involving the other member. In addition to following another member a member may elect to follow a company a topic a conversation a web page or some other entity or object which may or may not be included in the social graph maintained by the social networking system. With some embodiments because the content selection algorithm selects content relating to or associated with the particular entities that a member is connected with or is following as a member connects with and or follows other entities the universe of available content items for presentation to the member in his or her content stream increases.

As members interact with various applications content and user interfaces of the social networking system information relating to the member s activity and behavior may be stored in a database such as the database with reference number . Accordingly the content selection and relevance module may select and rank content items for presentation in a member s content stream based at least in part on a member s past activity as stored in the database with reference number . More specifically one or more content recommendation algorithms may utilize information about a member s activity to identify specific types of content or event specific content items for presentation to the member. For example if a member s activity and behavior data indicates that the member has been interacting with content relating to a particular subject matter or topic e.g. articles relating to computer programming the content selection and relevance module may increase a weighting factor applied as part of a ranking algorithm to content items that are related to or associated with the particular subject matter or topic. Similarly if a member is interacting with a particular type of content e.g. job postings the content selection and relevance module may increase a weighting factor applied as part of a ranking algorithm to content items that are of the particular content type. This will ensure that those content items likely to be of interest to the member are presented more prominently in the member s personalized content stream.

In addition to an activity or content stream the social networking system may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social networking system may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members of a social networking system may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments members may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance with some embodiments members of the social networking service may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the members in their personalized activity or content streams. With some embodiments members may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed. Membership in a group a subscription or following relationship with a company or group as well as an employment relationship with a company are all examples of different types of relationships that may exist between different entities as defined by the social graph and modeled with the social graph data of the database with reference number .

The application logic layer includes various application server modules which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various user interfaces with data retrieved from various data sources or data services in the data layer. With some embodiments individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various applications services and features of the social networking system. For instance a messaging application such as an email application an instant messaging application or some hybrid or variation of the two may be implemented with one or more application server modules . A photo sharing application may be implemented with one or more application server modules . Similarly a search engine enabling users to search for and browse member profiles may be implemented with one or more application server modules . Of course other applications and services may be separately embodied in their own application server modules .

As illustrated in one application server module is a content server stream module which includes a content selection and relevance module . Generally the content server module receives over a computer or data network content requests from various computing devices including various mobile computing devices. A content request generally includes a member identifier that uniquely identifies a member of the social networking service. In addition a content request may include other information such as location information indicating a current location of a mobile computing device from which the content request was initiated. In addition a content request may include an activity identifier identifying a member s current activity state as inferred by processing various signals from various sensors at the mobile computing device. A content request may include information specifying the device type and or application information from which the content request was initiated. Once received at the content server module the content request is processed by the content selection and relevance module to identify content items for presentation in the content stream of the particular member from whom the request was received.

With some embodiments in selecting and ranking content items to be presented to the member in his or her content stream the content selection and relevance module may utilize a wide variety of information. For example such information may include information concerning the member s past activity and behavior and information identifying the entities e.g. members companies groups topics web pages etc. with which the member is connected or is following as defined in the social graph of the social networking service. Additionally in selecting content items for presentation in a member s content stream the content selection and relevance module may utilize information received with the content request such as location information indicating a member s current location and an activity status identifier. For example the content selection and relevance module may compare a member s current location as indicated by information received via the content request with one or more specific locations at which the member is known to frequently be located such as his or her home or workplace. In this way the member s current location may be used to select content appropriate for the member s current location. For example in some scenarios it may be preferable to present the member with job listings only when the member is at home or in a location other than his current work place. Similarly certain content items particularly relevant to the member s current job might be given preference for presentation in the content stream when the member is viewing his or her content stream at his or her workplace. With some embodiments the content selection and relevance module may select and rank content items based in part on the inferred activity state of the member as indicated by the activity status identifier received with a content request. Accordingly content items may be selected and or formatted for presentation in a content stream based in part on the member s current physical activity state.

As illustrated in the mobile computing device includes a mobile operating system which has both a location information service or module and an activity recognition service or module . With some embodiments one of these two services may be a sub component of the other or may be combined as a single service or module. In any case the services and provide an application programming interface API that allows the mobile application to invoke various functions or access certain data that are provided and or derived by the respective services. For example the location information service may operate with one or more location sensing components or devices e.g. a GPS component WiFi triangulation iBeacons or other indoor positioning systems and so forth to derive location information representing the current location of the mobile computing device as well as the current speed and direction of travel. The mobile application by making an API request to the location information service can obtain this location information e.g. current location direction and speed of travel etc. of the mobile computing device. Accordingly with some embodiments the location information can be included with a content request communicated to a content server thereby allowing the content server to select content items based at least in part on the current location of the user or the current location and direction and speed of travel.

With some embodiments the activity recognition service may be configured to receive information or data signals from one or more motion sensing components or devices such as an accelerometer compass and or gyroscope. In addition the activity recognition service may receive location information from a location sensing component or device such as a GPS component indoor positioning system or other location sensing component and or a wireless network interface. By analyzing the information or data signals generated by these various sensing components the activity recognition service can generate information representing the inferred physical activity state of the member of the social networking service. For example the various sensing components may generate a combination of signals from which the activity recognition service can infer a particular activity state of the member to include but certainly not to be limited to walking running sitting standing driving in a vehicle and riding in a vehicle.

With some embodiments the inferred physical activity state of the member may be represented by a single activity status identifier that is assigned a particular value to represent the most likely current physical activity state of the member e.g. walking 1 running 2 sitting still 3 standing 4 etc. . In other embodiments each of several activity status identifiers may be assigned a value or score representing a measure of the likelihood that a member is in a certain physical activity state e.g. walking 0.90 running 0.45 sitting still 0.03 standing 0.11 etc. . In yet other embodiments the inferred physical activity state of the member may be represented by a single activity status identifier that is assigned a particular value to represent the most likely current physical activity state of the member in combination with another value that represents the likelihood or probability that the member is in the inferred physical activity state e.g. activity state identifier 1 confidence level 0.90 . Of course an activity status identifier may be encoded in any of a number of other ways as well.

Accordingly when a user of the mobile computing device is walking an accelerometer gyroscope and compass will generally detect motion and direction consistent with such activity. An activity status identifier may be assigned a particular value e.g. a number that identifies the member s current physical activity state for example walking or running. Alternatively a specific activity status identifier for walking may be assigned a value or score representing the probability or likelihood that the member is at that moment engaged in the particular physical activity that is for example walking. Similarly when a user places his or her mobile computing device flat on a desk or table top the sensing components will generally detect motion or lack thereof that is consistent with such activity.

In some instances in addition to signals generated by an accelerometer gyroscope and or compass the activity recognition service may also analyze information received from other data sources to include information from one or more location sensing components e.g. GPS iBeacon etc. . By analyzing location information including the current location e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates as well as the direction and speed of travel the activity recognition service can make meaningful inferences about the member s current activity state. For example an accelerometer and gyroscope of a mobile computing device may detect motion consistent with a member that may be running while the member s current location speed and direction of travel as evidenced by information received via a GPS component may indicate that the member is currently on a well known trail or path and moving in a direction and speed consistent with the member running on the trail or path. Accordingly the more information from which the activity status identifier is inferred the higher the confidence level may be for the particular inferred activity status identified.

With some embodiments the activity recognition service may use a mobile computing device s network activity status to determine the member s current physical activity state. For example if a mobile computing device is currently paired and actively communicating with another Bluetooth device known to be in an automobile or vehicle of the member and the other sensors are detecting signals consistent with the mobile computing device being within a moving automobile or vehicle the activity recognition service may indicate a high probability that the member is currently driving. Similarly if the sensors are detecting signals consistent with the mobile computing device being within a moving automobile or vehicle but the mobile computing device is not currently paired or connected with a known data network Bluetooth personal area network controller area network etc. the activity recognition service may indicate a high probability that the member is currently riding but not driving in a vehicle.

With some embodiments a mobile application may register a request with the activity recognition service to receive periodic updates regarding the inferred activity state of the user of the mobile computing device who is a member of the social networking service. Accordingly after receiving the request the activity recognition service may periodically communicate information to the mobile application about the user s inferred activity state. With some embodiments the activity recognition service may only provide the mobile application with information concerning the current inferred activity status when there is a change from one status to another or when the confidence level for a particular activity status exceeds some predefined threshold. In other embodiments the mobile application may periodically poll the activity recognition service for the current inferred activity state.

Referring again to the mobile application includes a content stream presentation module a content request prediction module and a content request generator module . In general the content stream presentation module facilitates the presentation of the content stream including all of the content items received via a content server via a display of a mobile computing device to the user of the mobile computing device i.e. the member of the social networking service . The content request generator module initiates a content request in response to a user of the mobile application a member of the social networking service manually manipulating a user interface element such that the content request is communicated to a content server. In addition and as described below the content request generator module may automatically initiate a content request e.g. without explicit user interaction when the content request prediction module detects that certain conditions are satisfied where the satisfaction of the conditions are determined to be a good predictor of when the member is likely to view his or her content stream.

With some embodiments the content request prediction module performs two functions. First the content request prediction module receives and analyzes various information e.g. location activity state of the member time of day etc. to determine a set of conditions that are present when a member manually initiates a request for content items from a content server and views his or her content stream. Accordingly by identifying various conditions that exist when a member manually initiates a content request the content request prediction module can over time identify patterns or conditions that precede or occur simultaneously with the member initiating a content request and viewing his or her content stream. For example a particular member may exhibit a pattern of regularly using his or her mobile computing device to view his or her content stream at the same time of day e.g. 7 30 AM from the same location e.g. local coffee shop . Similarly a user may use a tablet computer each morning or evening to view his or her content stream. By detecting motion of a particular type using the accelerometer gyroscope and or compass of the tablet computing device the content request prediction module can establish some conditions that when satisfied will result in an automatic content request being communicated to a content server. Accordingly the content request prediction module will identify the pre existing conditions that signal that the member is likely to view his or her content stream.

Once such conditions have been identified and established as the prediction criteria for pre fetching content items for a content stream the content request prediction module will monitor various signals for example the current inferred activity status of the member the current time of day and the current location of the mobile computing device to determine or predict when the user is likely to view his or her content stream. When the predefined conditions are determined to be satisfied the content request prediction module will trigger an automatic content request to the server so that the content request generator module communicates the content request to the content server and the mobile application receives fresh content items to present to the member via his or her content stream. In this way the mobile application operating in the background can pre fetch current and contextually relevant content items even before a member has opened the mobile application to view his or her content stream. Furthermore by using the inferred activity state of the user to trigger the automatic content requests the content requests are more timely than content requests that might be triggered based on some predefined schedule.

With some embodiments the conditions upon which the automatic triggering of the content request occur may be based upon the member being in a particular physical activity state or exhibiting a change from one physical activity state to another as inferred by the activity recognition service . Similarly the conditions may be based upon some combination of the member being in a particular physical activity state or exhibiting a change from one physical activity state to another while simultaneously being in a particular location or being in a particular location while traveling in a particular distance at a particular speed and so on. In yet other instances the conditions may involve the time of day such that an automatic triggering of a content request occurs when the member is in a physical activity state only at a particular time e.g. hour of day. Of course in other scenarios any combination of the aforementioned conditions may be used to establish the predefined conditions that when satisfied will result in the automatic triggering of a content request to the content server thus eliminating the likelihood that a member must wait for fresh content to be received and rendered in his or her content stream.

At method operation the received or obtained activity status identifier is used in an algorithm to evaluate whether one or more predefined conditions are satisfied where satisfaction of the predefined condition or conditions is an indicator that the user is highly likely to make a request for fresh content for viewing in a content stream. For example if the activity status identifier has a particular value indicating that the user of the mobile computing device is in a particular physical state and the particular physical state is one that is commonly detected prior to the user viewing his or her content stream the detection of the physical activity state may satisfy the condition upon which an automatic content request is triggered.

At method operation in response to determining that the established condition or conditions are satisfied an automatic content request is generated and communicated to a content server. With some embodiments the content request may include a unique identifier for the requesting member as well as location information identifying the current location of the member and in some instances an activity status identifier indicating the user s inferred physical activity state.

Although not expressly shown in responsive to sending the automatic content request the mobile application will receive content items from a content server. The content items are stored so that they are immediately available for presentation to the user when the user views his or her content stream.

At method operation based on a member identifier received with the content request and based on the location information and or the activity status identifier various content items are selected for presentation to the user via his or her content stream. With some embodiments a content selection algorithm will use the location information and or activity status identifier to select relevant content items for presentation to the user. Similarly with some embodiments the location information and or activity status identifier may impact the ranking that particular content items are assigned and thus their position with respect to other content items in the content stream.

For example if a content request is received with location information indicating a member is at work the content selection algorithm may select content deemed appropriate for work and may refrain from selecting content that is deemed not appropriate for work. For example if a user is currently at his or her place of employment the user may desire to not have job postings presented in his or her content stream. With some embodiments the content selection and ranking algorithms may select and rank certain content items based on those content items having been posted to the content server from the same location as the member s current location. For example if a member is currently attending a particular event at a convention center the content selection algorithm may select content that was published to the content server from devices that were located at the convention center at the time the content was published to the content server. In other instances the content selection and ranking algorithms may select and rank content items based on a determination that the content items are associated with a particular location from which the content request was received. For example if the member is currently visiting a museum in New York city the content selection algorithm may select content associated with the museum for presentation to the member in his or her content stream.

Similarly the content items may be selected based in part on the member s current activity status. If for example a content request includes an activity status identifier indicating that the member is currently walking the content items selected for presentation may be selected for their ease of reading while walking for example shorter text and more pictures etc. With some embodiments the presentation format of content items presented to the user may be selected based on an activity status identifier. For example if a user is currently driving content items may be automatically spoken back to the user with a text to voice translator. Similarly if a user is currently walking or jogging 

With some embodiments when the content selection and relevance module receives a content request for a member and the content request includes location information the content selection and relevance module may first obtain information about the member. For example if the member s prior activity and behavior information indicate the member has been engaging in job seeking activities e.g. viewing job listings making connections with key people responsible for hiring such as recruiters etc. via the social network service the member may have a high job seeker score. That is the member may be classified as a job seeker such that the content selection and relevance module may select one or more job listings to present to the member. However the content selection and relevance module may use the member s current location information as received with the content request to select job listings that are associated with companies having operating facilities that are proximate to the member s current location.

In yet another example when the content selection and relevance module receives a content request for a member and the content request includes location information the content selection and relevance module may first determine one or more categories of interest of the member. Using this member interest information the content selection and relevance module may identify one or more item listings that describe an item e.g. a product or service that is being offered by a store or company that is proximate to the member s current location as determined by the location information received with the content request. With some embodiments many stores and companies will have a presence in the social graph of the social network service and therefore the locations of the stores and companies may be determined by simply obtaining profile information of the stores and or companies.

In yet another example the social networking service may provide an auction based system by which members particularly operators of stores and or businesses as well as advertisers can bid to have content presented in the personalized content streams of other members when those other members are in a particular location. Accordingly when a content request with location information is received the auction system may identify a current high bidder for presenting content to other members in the particular location identified by the location information. Of course the bidding system may allow bidders to specify a wide variety of member profile attributes including location when bidding to have content presented.

The various operations of the example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software instructions or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules or objects that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules and objects referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules and or objects.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or within the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs .

Consistent with some embodiments the mobile computing device includes one or more components for use in generating location information and or signals for use in generating an activity status identifier representing an inferred activity state of a user. For example as illustrated in the mobile computing device includes a digital compass and GPS component an accelerometer and a gyroscope for generating information concerning the motion and position of the mobile computing device. By processing signals received from these components an activity recognition module can generate an activity status identifier identifying a user s current physical activity state. Similarly the GPS and radio transceiver may be used to generate location information which might be included with a content request communicated to a server thereby enabling the server to select contextually relevant content items for presentation to the user.

In some embodiments the mobile computing device includes a camera . The camera may be used to capture images that can be published with location information to a content server. Consistent with some embodiments the mobile computing device includes one or more radio transceiver modules and one or more antennas for sending and receiving wireless data communications. For example the radio transceiver module may facilitate voice and or data communications over a wireless telephone network a wireless data network e.g. Wi Fi or a Bluetooth network.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific examples it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

