---

title: Navigator alignment using radar scan
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to the determination of and correction of heading error of platform. Knowledge of at least one of a maximum Doppler frequency or a minimum Doppler bandwidth pertaining to a plurality of radar echoes can be utilized to facilitate correction of the heading error. Heading error can occur as a result of component drift. In an ideal situation, a boresight direction of an antenna or the front of an aircraft will have associated therewith at least one of a maximum Doppler frequency or a minimum Doppler bandwidth. As the boresight direction of the antenna strays from a direction of travel at least one of the maximum Doppler frequency or a minimum Doppler bandwidth will shift away, either left or right, from the ideal situation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09304198&OS=09304198&RS=09304198
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09304198
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131004
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Proper operation of high performance synthetic aperture radar ground moving target indication SAR GMTI radar systems requires precise measurements of platform motion e.g. motion of an aircraft . This is commonly performed with a global positioning system GPS aided Inertial Navigation System INS . Integral to an INS is an Inertial Measurement Unit IMU whereby the IMU is typically composed of three orthogonal accelerometers and three orthogonal rate gyroscopes. The task of the GPS is to provide absolute references for correcting errors which can occur at the IMU owing to noise drift etc.

The combining of the GPS and IMU data to estimate errors and corrections and to achieve a blended motion measurement solution is often performed utilizing a linear quadratic estimation LQE such as a Kalman Filter KF an Extended Kalman Filter EKF etc. Such an algorithm and its implementation are frequently termed the navigator . The correction of IMU motion information is termed alignment of the navigator.

The GPS can provide data to correct errors in accelerometer data. Roll and pitch gyroscopic errors can be corrected with the additional knowledge of gravity which always accelerates downward. However gyroscopic yaw errors are not observable and hence are not correctable when a radar system is in straight level and constant velocity flight. Yaw error is also known as heading error with heading error being an orientation error as opposed to a translational error due to direction of platform flight.

Conventionally the complete alignment of a GPS aided IMU navigator during flight requires substantial horizontal accelerations to make the heading error observable. Such accelerations are typically sustained for a number of seconds for example 10 20 secs with a magnitude in the order of about 0.5 G in the horizontal direction. Aircraft typically perform maneuvers such as S turns or circles to accomplish the required acceleration. For a tactical grade IMU such an S turn might be required for example every 15 minutes or so thereby potentially disrupting the mission of the aircraft as well as negatively affecting passenger comfort. Linear accelerations can also be utilized to accomplish IMU alignment but their application on board an aircraft is limited.

Other techniques do exist to measure heading error and facilitate alignment of the radar navigator. Some techniques are better suited to correct for small errors other techniques are better suited to correct for large errors while some techniques can do both. One class of techniques involves the employment of additional instruments for detecting platform e.g. aircraft attitude and ultimately attitude of a radar system located on the platform. An example of such an instrument is a digital flux gate compass. However such compass systems can be very sensitive to extraneous ferrous metal and difficult to mount in a manner to provide a desired accuracy.

Another example is a GPS based Attitude Determination Unit ADU which employs multiple widely spaced GPS antennas with differential measurements to determine platform attitude. However an ADU system requires additional hardware beyond that utilized in a typical radar GPS aided IMU installation. This in turn represents additional cost and complexity as well as size weight and power demands on the platform. A particular platform may for example not allow the mounting of the widely spaced additional antennas required for the ADU.

The employment of a higher grade IMU for example a navigation grade IMU instead of a tactical grade IMU may facilitate holding an acceptable alignment for many hours. However this comes at a cost of increased price often by a factor of 5 to 10 as well as additional size weight and power. In addition an initial alignment is still required by conventional techniques such as an S turn. However some aircraft are not capable of S turns that can generate sufficient horizontal accelerations. Examples of these are many dirigibles and blimps.

Measurement and correction of a navigator heading error while in flight by analyzing SAR images is also available. While such an approach can work for small heading errors it is not able to perform an initial alignment for a large initial error. Essentially the technique performs well for keeping an IMU aligned once an initial alignment has been achieved. However as with the navigation grade IMU an initial alignment is still required by a conventional technique such as an S turn.

A well known technique for providing an initial alignment to an IMU is termed a ground alignment whereby the aircraft is stationary on the ground for some period of time perhaps 15 minutes at a known location allowing the IMU to sense the rotation of the earth and orient itself accordingly. However this technique has limited accuracy and precision especially for tactical grade IMUs and furthermore precludes performing an initial alignment while in flight such as might be required with a system restart. Landing an aircraft for each system restart is generally not feasible.

While in flight a navigator can be aligned to the body of the aircraft but there is no guarantee that the body is pointed in the exact direction of flight. The angular difference between the front of the aircraft body and the direction of flight is termed the crab angle of the aircraft and is generally unknown due to unknown winds aloft both in terms of speed and direction . Crab angles can be particularly large for large slow moving aircraft such as many dirigibles and blimps.

Consequently it becomes desirable to perform an initial alignment of the GPS aided IMU navigator while the radar is in flight where the initial alignment doesn t employ any additional instrumentation beyond the normal GPS aided IMU navigator and perhaps the radar system itself and can be accomplished during straight level and constant velocity flight.

One technique that utilizes a radar system to determine direction of flight with respect to an aircraft body is embodied in a class of radar systems called Doppler navigation radars. Such radar systems utilize multiple beams directed in different bearing directions with respect to the aircraft. The beams are generally transmitted with fixed angular differences. The Doppler information of these beams is compared to determine the direction of translation of the radar over the ground with respect to the aircraft body. Doppler navigation radars are custom systems that represent additional equipment with additional cost and complexity as well as size weight and power demands on the platform.

Another navigation technique using radar is known as Terrain Contour Matching TERCOM . This technique uses a radar altimeter to generate a height profile of the ground below an aircraft and then attempts to match it to a pre recorded contour map of the terrain. While this enhances the position and velocity information available to the navigator it does not address angular yaw or heading errors.

More generally fiducial targets such as known landmarks can be employed to determine heading errors but this requires prior knowledge of those landmarks or limits the region over which an alignment can occur. A variant of this is to match specific radar echoes to data reported by other means such as Automatic Identification System AIS reports. This however again requires additional instrumentation and of course the presence of suitably equipped craft.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various exemplary embodiments presented herein relate to determining and correcting a heading error. In an exemplary embodiment a radar system located on an aircraft can include a navigator component configured to determine at least one of a maximum Doppler frequency or a minimum Doppler bandwidth in a plurality of radar echoes. In a further embodiment the navigator can be further configured to correct a heading error of the aircraft based on a direction relating to the at least one of the determined maximum Doppler frequency or the determined minimum Doppler bandwidth.

Another exemplary embodiment comprising a method for determination of a heading error along with correcting the heading error is presented. The method comprising determining for each squint angle in a plurality of squint angles at least one of a maximum Doppler frequency and a minimum Doppler bandwidth for each squint angle wherein the plurality of squint angles relating to a plurality of radar echoes being received at an antenna located on an aircraft. In an embodiment the method further comprising determining from the plurality of radar squint angles a squint angle having the maximum Doppler frequency with the minimum Doppler bandwidth. In a further embodiment the method further comprises setting an actual direction of an inertial measurement unit to the squint angle having the maximum Doppler frequency with the minimum Doppler bandwidth. And in a further embodiment the method further comprises determining a heading error of the aircraft based on resolving the difference between an indicated direction for the inertial measurement unit and the set actual direction of an inertial measurement unit.

A further exemplary embodiment for determination of a heading error and correction of the heading error comprises a computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform acts comprising determining for each squint angle in a plurality of squint angles at least one of a maximum Doppler frequency and a minimum Doppler bandwidth for each squint angle wherein the plurality of squint angles relating to a plurality of radar echoes being received at an antenna located on an aircraft. In a further embodiment the acts further comprising determining from the plurality of radar squint angles a squint angle having the maximum Doppler frequency with the minimum Doppler bandwidth. In another embodiment the acts further comprising setting an actual direction of an inertial measurement unit to the squint angle having the maximum Doppler frequency with the minimum Doppler bandwidth. And in another embodiment the acts further comprising determining a heading error of the aircraft based on resolving the difference between an indicated direction for the inertial measurement unit and the set actual direction of an inertial measurement unit.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to determining and correcting a heading error are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

As noted above exemplary embodiments presented herein relate to determination and correction of a heading error. As described in the Background angular measurements received from an IMU gyroscope can drift thereby manifesting a yaw or heading error. Such heading errors are not observable with common GPS aided IMU navigation systems during straight level constant velocity flight. Especially problematic are the large heading errors observed after a system reset.

In one or more embodiments as described further herein a radar system is configured to determine the direction of flight independent of crab angle by observing the characteristics of a processed range Doppler map. The Doppler characteristics of a plurality of radar echoes exhibit greatest Doppler frequency and with minimum spread Doppler bandwidth for ground clutter when a radar antenna is pointed in the direction of flight. In a further embodiment the antenna pointing direction having a maximum Doppler frequency along with a minimum Doppler bandwidth can be determined by scanning the radar antenna while collecting data and processing intervals of the collected data into range Doppler maps. Consequently by determining the reported antenna pointing direction for the range Doppler map exhibiting greatest clutter frequency and minimum Doppler bandwidth and comparing the reported antenna pointing direction with GPS derived direction of flight a heading error can be calculated. The heading error can be fed back into a navigation system e.g. a Kalman Filter to facilitate alignment of the navigator. In an embodiment GPS derived data can describe a translational flight direction of the aircraft. In another embodiment collecting the radar based data to determine the direction of maximum Doppler frequency and or minimum Doppler bandwidth for ground clutter can be performed by scanning a radar antenna over a large angular segment around an approximate flight direction of the aircraft. A suitable approximate flight direction of the aircraft may be the nominal front of the aircraft whereby the angular segment should be large enough to encompass any expected crab angle. Alternatively a radar system can sample Doppler in specific directions and calculate the desired direction from the samples. In a further embodiment rather than searching for a maximum Doppler the radar system may search for a minimum Doppler of ground clutter to find the direction opposite the flight direction. Such an approach would still yield a minimum Doppler bandwidth for ground clutter.

In accordance with one or more embodiments presented herein a radar system can assist in aligning an IMU even for large heading errors without the need for problematic maneuvers and or additional instrumentation. In the following it is assumed that all angles are positive when measured in a clockwise direction. Thus rotating clockwise increases the angular measure.

It is to be appreciated that while exemplary situations 1 and 2 represent the most common motion measurement system configurations the various embodiments presented herein are equally applicable to other configurations to which the various aspects presented herein are pertinent. It is to be further appreciated that while the various embodiments are directed towards heading error of an aircraft the embodiments can be equally applied to any system requiring correction of heading error where such system can comprise a ship vehicle etc.

Alignment of the navigator equates to calibration such that is correct and accurate. With reference to system two versions of can be defined as follows 

As mentioned the value is a directional measurement derived by the IMU itself. It is desired that the two versions of IMU values are equal that is that the value of is equal to the value of . The difference between the and the is the heading error that is Eqn. 1

In a situation where the value is sufficiently small e.g. less than a defined amount aka a residual error the navigator can be considered to be aligned. In a situation where the value is of a magnitude that is greater than the residual error then the navigator is considered to not be aligned e.g. motion information associated with the IMU needs to be corrected to facilitate alignment of the navigator . The degree of allowable residual error is application dependent. For many SAR GMTI applications a residual error less than about 0.5 degrees for an initial coarse alignment can be sufficient assuming additional technologies systems exist to provide a supplemental fine alignment. A fine alignment to an accuracy of about 0.05 degrees is often adequate for most SAR GMTI operations. For some radar systems notably those that use multiple antenna phase centers to perform Direction of Arrival DOA measurements such as endoclutter GMTI a higher degree of accuracy and precision than that utilized in fine alignment may be required.

Alignment of the navigator requires an independent measurement or calculation of the true antenna boresight direction that is or equivalent. The independent measurement can be obtained by scanning the antenna in azimuth while operating the radar system to determine the orientation of the antenna that provides maximum Doppler frequency with minimum Doppler bandwidth for ground clutter in the radar data. Maximum Doppler frequency with minimum Doppler bandwidth occurs when the antenna boresight is aligned with the direction of travel . Such an alignment can be performed without regard for the indicated IMU orientation . When this orientation has been found the following is determined Eqn. 2

In accord with Eqn. 2 the of the navigator becomes the difference between the indicated orientation of the IMU and values generated by GPS Eqn. 3

The calculated can then be fed back into the estimator of the navigator to facilitate correction of the heading error driving to zero as desired.

Alignment of the navigator equates to a calibration such that is correct and accurate. With reference to system two versions of are as follows 

The value is a measurement determined by the IMU itself. It is desired that the two versions of IMU values are equal that is that the value of is equal to the value of The difference between the and the is the heading error that is Eqn. 4 When is sufficiently small the navigator is aligned. When is too large the navigator is not aligned. The degree of allowable residual error is application dependent. To minimize repetition comments regarding required accuracy and precision as detailed in the previous section with regard to system similarly apply to system .

Alignment of the navigator requires an independent measurement or calculation of the true antenna boresight direction that is or equivalent. As previously stated with regard to system one technique for obtaining the independent measurement is to scan the antenna in azimuth while operating the radar system and determine an orientation of the antenna that provides maximum Doppler frequency with minimum Doppler bandwidth for ground clutter in the data of radar system . Maximum Doppler frequency with minimum Doppler bandwidth occurs when the antenna boresight is aligned with the direction of travel . Such an alignment can be performed without regard for the indicated IMU orientation. When this orientation has been found the following can be determined Eqn. 5

The of navigator becomes the difference between the indicated orientation of the IMU and values provided by the GPS . That is Eqn. 6

The calculated can then be fed back into the estimator of the navigator to correct the heading error driving to zero as desired.

In the foregoing it is presumed that an independent measurement of direction of travel can be determined by operating the radar system and scanning the antenna in azimuth to find the antenna orientation that provides maximum Doppler frequency with minimum Doppler bandwidth for ground clutter in the radar data. There are a number of ways to find the direction of maximum Doppler and minimum bandwidth in association with pertinent considerations.

For a radar not flying straight and level the angles are with respect to the velocity vector of the radar.

Unless otherwise noted it is hereafter assumed a flat earth that is all radar echoes reflecting from a planar surface below the radar. Furthermore it is assumed that the ground consists of uniform clutter essentially stationary.

As previously stated Doppler frequency shift can be maximum and Doppler bandwidth can be minimum for a radar echo from stationary objects in the direction of flight radar translation . Furthermore for a radar system in straight and level flight above a flat earth the Doppler frequency is maximum for ground clutter forward of the ground track of the radar. illustrates Doppler frequency shift as a function of squint angle with respect to a velocity vector. illustrates Doppler bandwidth as a function of squint angle with respect to a velocity vector. In an embodiment plots and can be obtained at any suitable frequency band such as a Ku band. In a further embodiment the Doppler bandwidths illustrated in can be measured with respect to about a 3 dB one way antenna beamwidth. As illustrated in the behavior of the Doppler bandwidths is presented with respect to a flat earth scenario. As further illustrated in by overlaying plot broken line with plots and it can be seen that the maximum Doppler frequency occurs between the bandwidth plots and with regard to squint angle. From it is noted that in the direction of the ground track of the radar the Doppler frequency peak is a rather broad peak. However From the Doppler bandwidth plots and exhibit a rather sharp null. Based on the foregoing in an embodiment a measure of the Doppler bandwidth of the ground clutter may provide a more accurate indicator for radar flight direction.

In an embodiment plot is generated with a grazing angle of about 20 a radar velocity of about 75 m s and a radar wavelength of about 0.018 m. In an embodiment plots and are generated with a grazing angle of about 20 a radar velocity of about 75 m s an antenna az beamwidth of about 3.2 and a radar wavelength of about 0.018 m.

A sequence of range Doppler clutter echo maps which correspond to specific azimuth scan directions during a radar scan is illustrated in . As illustrated in as the clutter band moves to greater positive frequencies e.g. scans the band also becomes thinner as indicated by the narrowing thickness of bands A B C representing a narrower clutter bandwidth. As the scan passes the direction of flight e.g. scans the clutter band moves to lesser Doppler frequencies and becomes broader as indicated by the increasing thickness of bands C D E. The change in slope of the band e.g. slope of A vs. C is due to far ranges having shallower depression angles than nearer ranges therefore being closer to the direction of flight. The widest measured Doppler bandwidth e.g. A is nearest to a Doppler effect of zero and thus is effectively nearest to the broadside of the flight path of aircraft or . All the range Doppler clutter echo maps exhibited in are forward of zero Doppler and hence are forward of broadside to the flight path.

It is to be appreciated that in an embodiment for observations performed with respect to the left side of the flight path will require addition to the bearing and observations to the right side will require subtraction from the bearing. For ascending or descending aircraft the forward direction can be considered to be the direction between left side and right side directions of zero Doppler shift.

It is to be noted from that the Doppler bandwidth of the ground clutter return is maximum at these broadside directions. Based thereon determining the zero Doppler direction s might not be as accurately performed as determination of the maximum or minimum Doppler directions discussed earlier.

From it is to be noted that the plot of Doppler shift for a flat earth ground clutter is symmetric about the flight direction of the radar. Thus any two directions that yield identical Doppler shifts can be bisected to determine the ground track of the radar system or .

Further it is noted from however that Doppler bandwidth increases as the antenna pointing direction moves towards broadside of respective plots and . Consideration can be made of the inherent imprecision of such broadside measurements as the antenna points away from the forward or rearward direction of flight.

As illustrated in the shape of curve is deterministic that is for a flight path with the given geometry and all but heading error known the shape of curve can be calculated in its entirety. As an unknown heading error manifests itself the only unknown is the direction angle of the peak. A different radar flight geometry e.g. different grazing angle ascending descending flight path etc. could yield an equivalent calculable curve. However with as little as two Doppler values each measured in different directions the measured Doppler values can be fitted to the curve with a subsequent direction of maximum response estimated and hence the ground track can be determined. As more measures in other relative pointing directions are obtained an estimation of the radar ground track can be further improved. For example three or more Doppler frequency measures in different but known relative directions can facilitate determination of an entire 3 D velocity vector in IMU e.g. or indicated coordinates. Hence based on the foregoing the fundamentals of Doppler Navigation can be achieved. The fundamentals of Doppler Navigation can be achieved even though most practical systems use four simultaneous beams in a Janus configuration that is with a convenient symmetry both fore aft and left right.

When looking for the maximum Doppler frequency associated with the direction of flight it is necessary to scan the antenna e.g. antenna or across the actual direction of flight. Accordingly the antenna scan start position and scan end position should be selected with a combined angle to account for the maximum expected unknown crab angle of the aircraft or . That is the scan start angle with respect to the aircraft front should be selected to one side of the aircraft front by an amount greater than the maximum expected crab angle and the scan end angle with respect to the aircraft front should be selected to the other side of the aircraft front by an amount greater than the maximum expected crab angle . Such an approach will ensure that the aircraft direction of travel is within the scan. Similar considerations should be given when looking for any other specific angle with respect to the direction of travel such as the direction of minimum Doppler zero Doppler etc.

Any pulsed Doppler radar system can give rise to ambiguous Doppler measurements. Doppler ambiguity can be avoided by employing a radar pulse repetition frequency PRF that is at least twice the highest expected Doppler frequency shift. The PRF constraint could be relaxed if the radar system e.g. or operates in a manner to guarantee unambiguous Doppler information in the measured data for example by scanning over a limited interval of angles with a bounded expected heading error. For example if the unknown crab angle is nevertheless known to be less than 30 degrees and a selected scan is from 60 to 60 degrees then the exhibited Doppler would be known to be non negative and the PRF requirement can be relaxed such that it is greater than the highest expected Doppler frequency shift. When ambiguity exists the Doppler frequency will be ambiguous by amounts that are integer multiples of the radar PRF.

In a situation where aliasing is expected lower radar PRFs can be used with consideration to account for the aliasing of Doppler frequencies. Such an operation can be referred to as unwrapping the Doppler. The approach comprises selecting the right Doppler frequency from all the possible aliased Doppler frequencies. Unwrapping Doppler can be done in a variety of ways usually with taking into account additional measurements. One or more of the following might be employed.

If the Doppler bandwidth is unambiguous then it can be utilized to unwrap the Doppler. It is to be noted that the highest Doppler frequency coincides with the smallest Doppler bandwidth.

A true velocity of the radar system e.g. can be identified from GPS measurements generated by the onboard GPS system e.g. . A common assumption to begin an in air alignment operation is to assume that the aircraft is oriented with the front of the aircraft in the same direction as the direction of travel . With such an approach the heading error is equal to the crab angle . If the expected crab angle can be bounded the heading error can also be bounded. By bounding the crab angle and the heading angle the error in expected Doppler frequency shift can be bounded in any particular indicated pointing direction. In a situation where the Doppler error is bounded to less than half the PRF then the Doppler can be considered to be unwrapped.

It may be important that a velocity measurement from the radar system e.g. at some indicated orientation of an IMU e.g. can be matched in time with a velocity measurement received from the GPS e.g. and further in some situations with the resolver angles. The foregoing indicates a requirement for time tagging the readings from the IMU e.g. and resolver readings e.g. associated with any of the navigator GPS etc. . Accordingly the heading error is thereby limited to alignment errors and is not impacted by the motion of the radar system itself.

As previously presented it is anticipated that a heading error can slowly drift over time. Consequently with properly time tagged data associated with any of an IMU e.g. a navigator e.g. and a GPS e.g. any calculations performed with the time tagged data can tolerate substantial latency in application of a calculated result to the KF to facilitate alignment of the navigator. For example a tolerance of tens of seconds is applicable for a tactical grade IMU based navigator.

In the preceding the various embodiments have been detailed with an assumption of a flat earth scenario that is there is no significant topography to the clutter that the radar system is interrogating. Violating this presumption of flat earth can complicate the relationship of Doppler to ground track and lead to errors.

For example illustrates a notional flight path conducted over a topography having a pronounced departure from a flat earth topography. In the exemplary flight path the direction of maximum Doppler would not correspond to the ground track of the radar. A segment of the mountain to the left of the ground track is closer to the 3 D flight direction of the radar system thereby offering a higher Doppler shift at least at some ranges.

Knowledge of radar position and topography of the clutter landscape would allow development of a plot of expected Doppler characteristics while taking into account the topographic effects on Doppler. illustrates a plot plot illustrating the topographic effects on Doppler measurement according to an embodiment. The departure from the flat earth Doppler as illustrated in is readily apparent. Further the topographic effects can lead to a change in the estimated heading as indicated by the estimated heading error as a function of the measured Doppler received from radar system e.g. as indicated by plot . It is to be appreciated that prior knowledge of an area topography can be utilized to facilitate estimation of heading error . Prior knowledge of the topography of an area encompassing the radar s operational area can be stored in a Digital Elevation Map DEM associated with any of IMU navigator radar system or GPS .

In the foregoing it has been assumed that a representative Doppler frequency and or bandwidth of a clutter band in a range Doppler map can be readily calculable as sufficient for comparison to other Doppler frequencies bandwidths to determine a maximum or minimum as required. While this is a straightforward concept for a uniform clutter reflectivity in a scene being interrogated by a radar system in practice it may not be possible to expect such uniformity of clutter reflectivity. Variations in clutter reflectivity can be manifested as uncertainty in the measures of Doppler frequency and or bandwidth. However such uncertainty in clutter reflectivity can be reduced by any of a number of well known techniques including linear averaging weighted averaging nonlinear averaging parametric curve fitting etc. over range bands and or multiple processing intervals and possibly scans. Further it has been assumed that the measured Doppler is due to radar motion alone and the ground clutter is stationary. While such an assumption is generally true for land it can generally not be true for water with the potential for error over water bodies.

At the radar echoes can be divided into groups based on radar squint angle. For example with respect to squint angle ranges of any magnitude can be utilized e.g. squint angle bins of 1 squint angle bins of 0.5 squint angle bins of 5 etc. can be chosen.

At for each squint angle or squint angle bin a Doppler frequency and Doppler bandwidth can be determined. E.g. for a squint angle range of 0.5 the Doppler frequency and Doppler bandwidth for data in bin 0 0.5 for bin 0.5 1 for bin 1 1.5 for bin 1.5 2 etc. be determined.

At as previously described the squint angle having a maximum Doppler frequency with minimum Doppler bandwidth for ground clutter in the radar data can be considered an indicator of a direction of travel. Accordingly by identifying the squint angle that has at least one of the maximum Doppler frequency and or the minimum Doppler bandwidth the direction of travel can be identified.

At the squint angle identified as having the maximum Doppler frequency with minimum Doppler bandwidth can be set to the .

At the heading error is determined. In a situation where the IMU is located on a gimbaled antenna the heading error can be determined based at least on Equations 1 3 and 7 9. In a situation where the IMU is located on an aircraft body the heading error can be determined based at least on Equations 4 9. In an embodiment can be supplemented with data provided by a GPS and the heading error can be determined based upon the supplemental data provided by the GPS.

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system to determine and correct a heading error of a vehicle such as an aircraft. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store operating parameters required operating parameters and so forth.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may include executable instructions operating parameters required operating parameters etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

As used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices.

Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. A computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc BD where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection for instance can be a communication medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

