---

title: Highly directional thermal emitter
abstract: A highly directional thermal emitter device comprises a two-dimensional periodic array of heavily doped semiconductor structures on a surface of a substrate. The array provides a highly directional thermal emission at a peak wavelength between 3 and 15 microns when the array is heated. For example, highly doped silicon (HDSi) with a plasma frequency in the mid-wave infrared was used to fabricate nearly perfect absorbing two-dimensional gratings structures that function as highly directional thermal radiators. The absorption and emission characteristics of the HDSi devices possessed a high degree of angular dependence for infrared absorption in the 10-12 micron range, while maintaining high reflectivity of solar radiation (˜64%) at large incidence angles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08987754&OS=08987754&RS=08987754
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08987754
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to thermal emission and in particular to a highly directional thermal emitter.

Surface plasmons are coherent electron oscillations that exist at the interface between any two materials where the real part of the dielectric function changes sign across the interface e.g. a metal dielectric interface . When surface plasmons couple with an incident photon the resulting hybridized excitation is called a surface plasmon polariton SPP . Therefore SPPs are bound electromagnetic modes that can occur at metal dielectric interfaces and correspond to polarization waves of free electrons in the metal. Therefore electromagnetic modes can propagate along a bare metal surface and decrease exponentially in the perpendicular direction thereby strongly confining light to the surface until energy is lost either via absorption in the metal or radiation into free space.

An optical grating is formed by a periodically modulated interface between a dielectric and a metal. It is well known that at such structured surfaces the absorption may strongly depend on the angle of incidence and the polarization of the incident light. Therefore in angular reflectivity measurements minima are observed at specific angles of incidence that are attributed to the incident light being transformed into a SPP wave which dissipates the energy in the metal finally being converted to thermal energy. Conversely if the thermal energy of the metal is high enough to populate surface plasmon states the grating can transform these excitations into plane electromagnetic waves leaving the surface leading to a maximum in emission observed near the angle at which the minimum of reflectivity is observed in the reflectivity measurement as expected according to Kirchhoff s law of thermal radiation. Specifically surface waves that are excited by heating the metal are diffracted by the grating in directions for which the condition of phase matching is met as a result of some spatial coherence in the surface plane. Therefore the absorption and emission spectra can be highly directional and of a narrow bandwidth defined by the symmetry and periodicity of the surface structure for a given wavelength.

Surface plasmons in the mid wave and long wave infrared LWIR nominally 3 15 m have notable differences to plasmons in the visible and near infrared part of the electromagnetic spectrum. Two defining characteristics of SPP modes are the propagation length and the dielectric surface penetration depth k. These features are directly proportional to one another over all frequency ranges but exist in opposite extremes for the visible and infrared IR with propagation length and dielectric penetration being small in comparison to wavelength in the visible and quite large in the infrared. These physical properties of the LWIR SPP s have made it a challenge to find efficient applications in this frequency range though some have been demonstrated. See C. Sirtori et al. 23 1366 1998 and N. Yu et al. 2 564 2008 . For example performance of the quantum cascade laser QCL has been improved through the use of SPP waveguide modes while the beam profile and polarization state of mid IR QCL s have been modified using SPP s as well.

However for further applications to be developed a need remains for long wavelength plasmons that can be generated with the high confinement and high loss of conventional SPP s. One potential application of long wavelength plasmons is directional emission where plasmon radiation loss can be beneficial. Careful design of a periodic surface structure can allow the emission absorption to occur only over a narrow angular range.

The present invention is directed to highly directional thermal emitter device comprising a two dimensional periodic array of heavily doped semiconductor structures on a surface of a substrate wherein each structure has similar height and side lengths and wherein the periodic array has a characteristic periodicity in each direction such that the array provides a highly directional thermal emission at a peak wavelength between 3 and 15 microns i.e. mid to long wave infrared when the array is heated. The two dimensional periodic array can be biperiodic or have different periodicity in the orthogonal directions. The heavily doped semiconductor can comprise a group IV semiconductor such as silicon or a compound semiconductor such as indium arsenide. The heavily doped semiconductor can be n doped or p doped. The dopant density can be greater than 1 10cm.

As an example of the invention highly doped silicon HDSi with a plasma frequency in the mid wave infrared was used to fabricate nearly perfect absorbing two dimensional gratings structures that function as highly directional thermal radiators. The absorption and emission characteristics of the devices possessed a high degree of angular dependence for infrared absorption in the 10 12 micron range while maintaining high reflectivity of solar radiation 64 at large incidence angles. Increased bandwidth tailoring can be achieved with further modification of the two dimensional pattern.

One alternative to noble metals which exhibits a controllable plasma frequency is heavily doped silicon HDSi . See J. C. Ginn et al. 110 043110 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference. By controlling the free carrier populations through doping the plasma frequency can be tuned to the IR. Tuning of the plasma frequency also enables control of the electromagnetic dispersion and sub wavelength confinement of the SPP mode near the doped Si surface. There has been significant research conducted on this material in the last 30 years. Hesketh et al. demonstrated control over the emissivity of a one dimensional grating fabricated from HDSi and also investigated the angular dependence of those properties while Auslender and Hava furthered this work by demonstrating perfect absorption with one dimensional HDSi gratings designed for resonance at 10.6 ms. See P. J. Hesketh et al. 37 10795 1988 P. J. Hesketh et al. 37 10803 1988 and M. Auslender and S. Hava . 36 1077 1995 . In more recent years Cleary et al. explored the use of doped silicon for surface plasmon waveguides in the long wave infrared as they offer high confinement and acceptable propagation lengths while Shazad et al. demonstrated coupling LWIR laser radiation to an HDSi one dimensional grating. See J. W. Cleary et al. 27 4 730 2010 and M. Shahzad et al. 8024 80240B 2011 .

A schematic perspective view illustration of a highly directional thermal emitter device of the present invention is shown in . The device comprises a two dimensional periodic array of mesas. Each mesa has a side length w and a mesa etch depth or height h. In this exemplary biperiodic array comprising square mesas the lengths of the sides and are equal. The bidirectional array has a single periodicity . Therefore the filling fraction is w . Other 2D grating structures can also be used including two dimensional arrays with different periodicities in the orthogonal directions and structures with different geometries. Arrays with different periodicities will cause different behavior for the two polarizations of emitted light possibly increasing the bandwidth of emission and altering the angle dependent behavior in the orthogonal directions. The periodicity can be approximately equal to or slightly less than the desired peak emission wavelength e.g. 3 to 15 microns . For example circular rectangular conical prismatic or other mesa shapes can also be used. The mesa material is a heavily doped semiconductor. The heavily doped semiconductor can be n doped or p doped. With a group IV semiconductor such as silicon an n type dopant can be phosphorus although other group V donor impurities can also be used. Likewise a p type dopant can be boron although other group III acceptor impurities can also be used. The dopant density will depend on the type of dopant used. For example the dopant density can typically be 1 3 10cm. Compound semiconductors such as indium arsenide can also be used. The heavily doped semiconductor can be an ion implanted layer on a substrate . A thin layer of noble metal can be deposited to fill the array troughs to maximize visible light reflectivity. In this device surface plasmon waves are excited by heating of the array semiconductor material. The resulting surface plasmon assisted emission of radiation can be highly directional in a direction normal to the surface of the device.

As an example of the present invention HDSi was used as the array material to provide a nearly perfect absorbing two dimensional grating structure which can be optimized for thermal management applications through directional absorption control at thermal wavelengths and minimization of visible absorption at all angles. An exemplary device exhibits 90 absorption of thermal radiation over a narrow angular cone extending 15 around the surface normal. In accordance with Kirchhoff s law the thermal emissivity of a material is directly proportional to its thermal absorption characteristics. See G. Kirchhoff 20 1 1860 . Since the exemplary device s transmission is essentially zero the reflected signal is equivalent to 1 emissivity .

In the exemplary device near perfect absorption of unpolarized normal incidence thermal radiation is achieved using a two dimensional grating structure comprised of an HDSi mesa array with gold spanning the troughs. HDSi mesa material was n doped with phosphorus to a density of 2.4 10cmas reported by Ginn et al. wherein the doping technique and characterization results are reported. See J. C. Ginn et al. 110 043110 2011 . The SPP dispersion relation for an air HDSi interface predicts a mode with tight confinement and high loss similar to the characteristics of visible SPP s. A plot of these properties is shown in which indicates that subwavelength SPP confinement is predicted for wavelengths up to 9.5 microns. As is expected the propagation length is also decreased throughout that infrared range indicating a very high loss mode. It is this high loss mode that can be exploited for the perfect absorption functionality of the highly directional thermal emitter of the present invention.

Initial simulations indicated that near perfect normal incidence LWIR absorption was achievable with a biperiodic device consisting of the HDSi material alone but in order to maximize high visible light reflectivity a thin layer of noble metal was added to fill the array troughs. For device fabrication convenience and characterization in the IR frequency range gold was used for this purpose despite its non ideal behavior in the visible region. This was an acceptable alteration as simulations showed inconsequential variation in the IR region of the device behavior when the gold was replaced by silver or aluminum. Parameter sweeps were conducted using low resolution rigorous coupled wave analysis RCWA simulations to explore and optimize the thermal absorption dependency on periodicity A mesa side length w and mesa etch depth h. show reflectivity simulation results for the three cases of fixing two parameters while varying the third. The analysis makes it clear that the maximum in absorption is not solely determined by periodicity i.e. by the simple surface plasmon conservation equations. It is likely that all of the supported plasmon modes the HDSi air gold air and the HDSi air HDSi gap plasmon modes existing in between the mesas all play a role in the enhanced absorption process.

From these simulation results a geometry consisting of periodicity 9 m mesa side length 6 m i.e. a filling fraction of 67 and mesa height 1.5 m was chosen for more rigorous simulation analysis and for fabrication. The devices were fabricated in a process which relied on a single optical lithography patterning step for both inductively coupled plasma reactive ion etching ICP RIE of the silicon mesas and the titanium gold 5 50 nm respectively metallization patterning for the troughs. A scanning electron microscope SEM image of an array portion is shown in . A rounding of the mesa corners and damage to mesa sidewalls is evident and is attributed to the single lithography step however no changes to the fabrication process were made to maintain the simple procedure.

Normal incidence reflection measurements were performed using a FTIR spectrometer f 4 optics and a liquid nitrogen cooled mercury cadmium telluride MCT detector. High resolution three dimensional finite difference time domain FDTD simulations for the normal incidence reflection were conducted with k vector corrections to account for grating order losses not recovered in the experiment i.e. the simulation rejected power diffracted outside of the 10 angular cone that the experiment collected. shows the normal incidence reflection spectrum and FDTD model results for the exemplary device. As can be seen from the figure near perfect absorption 99 was predicted by the model at 10.6 m and a value of 91 was measured at 10.3 m. At this wavelength there is very efficient coupling between the incident waves and the surface waves. The discrepancy between the measured and predicted values is attributed to the curved and damaged silicon sidewalls and variation in structure geometry over the device surface. The agreement can be improved with additional fabrication steps. Angle dependent reflectivity scans were acquired using a hemispherical directional reflectometer HDR and a FTIR spectrometer. The HDR system was used to make polarized measurements of both the specular and diffuse components of the radiation reflected and transmitted by a sample for angles ranging from 8 80 . As these structures exhibit no transmission throughout the measured spectrum reflection is equivalent to 1 emissivity . Contour plots of the HDR measurement and RCWA simulations of reflection are shown in for S electric field parallel to the surface P magnetic field parallel to the surface and averaged polarization states of the composite specular and diffuse reflection spectra. In the HDR measurement data an artificial loss is present which is caused by satisfaction of the Littrow condition. The Littrow condition occurs when a diffractive structure is measured in a configuration such that the first order reflected mode is directed to the same angle as the incident beam thereby reflecting energy back to the source in the HDR system. Due to the optical configuration of the HDR this light is not recoverable thus giving rise to the spurious loss source. For clarity a plot of the Littrow solution sin 2 4 is overlaid on the HDR P polarized data of . The Littrow curve is also present in the S polarized and averaged data contours though with intensity decreasing and eventually disappearing at higher wavelengths.

While these plots demonstrate the suitability of the structure for highly directional thermal emissivity it can also be desirable to obtain efficient rejection of the solar spectrum. To evaluate device performance RCWA simulations using Palik s values for the permittivities of silicon and silver and gold in the 0.2 to 3 m spectral range were conducted for the unmetallized and metallized geometries. See Edward D. Palik Elsevier 1998 . By integrating the product of the absorption spectra and the black body spectral irradiance for the sun at 5250 C. the uncoated silicon grating structure was found to absorb 65 the gold coated structure absorbed 56 and the silver trench structure absorbed only 35 of the sun s energy at an incidence angle of 45 with similar values persisting up to normal incidence.

Normal incidence emissivity measurements were conducted on the device with a custom built thermal chamber and a FTIR spectrometer. See A. R. Ellis et al. 7065 706508 2008 . The sample was mounted on a gold coated cryostat finger along with a matte black painted silicon control sample. A cold shield with a 1 1 cm window was positioned in front of the sample holder. The entire assembly was placed in a vacuum chamber and pumped down to 10Torr at which point the cold shield was cooled to 27K to suppress background emissions. Multiple cartridge heaters were used to heat the cryostat finger to the desired temperature e.g. 150 C. and FTIR spectra were collected employing the background correction techniques discussed in Ellis et al. The collection optic of the emissivity system was an f 2.5 lens which collects a broad cone of angles thereby convoluting the sample s emissivity up to approximately 11 . To account for this the image of the sample was projected onto the lens for particular emission angles and the fraction of the surface area captured by the optic was used as a weighting factor for the RCWA simulated emissivity. Those weighted emissivity numbers were then averaged to replicate the measurement system. is a graph of the measured normal incidence emissivity and image projection weighted RCWA absorption simulations again demonstrating good agreement. The sample shows a strong surface plasmon enhanced emission at about 10.5 m wavelength. This indicates strong coupling between the surface waves and the outgoing waves at a wavelength comparable to the array period.

The present invention has been described as a highly directional thermal emitter. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

