---

title: Grid-based user interface system
abstract: A system for displaying data comprises an interface and a processor. The interface is configured to receive an indication of a matrix element for expansion. The processor is configured to provide a matrix for display. The matrix includes a plurality of matrix elements. The processor is configured to provide a modified matrix for display, in the event that the matrix element is selected for expansion. The modified matrix for display includes a matrix element expanded and matrix elements compressed based at least in part on the matrix element selected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09335901&OS=09335901&RS=09335901
owner: Workday, Inc.
number: 09335901
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130214
---
A business manager is often interested in viewing sorted or grouped business information. For example he might want to see all of his clients grouped into categories based on total amount billed or his employees grouped by performance. The manager might be able to build a report into his business software to show the desired groupings however if the manager were interested in a more complex partitioning of business information he would be at a loss. It would be advantageous to display business information grouped along multiple dimensions in a single report.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

A grid based user interface system is disclosed. A system for displaying data comprises an interface configured to receive an indication of a matrix element for expansion. The system for displaying data additionally comprises a processor configured to provide a matrix for display wherein the matrix includes a plurality of matrix elements and provide a modified matrix for display wherein the matrix element selected for expansion is expanded maintaining relative position to all other matrix elements of the plurality of matrix elements wherein all other matrix elements of the plurality of matrix elements are modified. The system for displaying data additionally comprises a memory coupled to the processor and configured to provide the processor with instructions.

A set of business data objects e.g. employees vendors clients tasks accounts etc. is divided into a set of groups. Each group of objects is associated with a location in a 1 or 2 dimensional matrix or is the unassociated group of objects. Each axis of the 1 or 2 dimensional matrix represents a value or a value range for an object attribute e.g. employee potential employee performance employee salary vendor value client amount billed etc. . The matrix is comprised of a set of matrix elements each matrix element displayed at a specific location in the matrix and associated with a value for each axis of the matrix. The number of matrix elements is equal to the product of the number of possible values on each axis. The group of objects associated with a given matrix element comprises the set of objects whose attribute values are those matching the values associated with the matrix element on each axis. In various embodiments the unassociated group of objects is shown in a separate region from the matrix or is accessible via an indication to a menu or other user interface object.

A user of the matrix may wish to interact with it in several different ways. When the matrix is first displayed the matrix is shown filled with business data objects at locations determined by their associated attribute values. A user can quickly learn about the business data objects by viewing the matrix display. For example a matrix displays employee potential on one axis and employee performance on another. In various embodiments matrices and axes comprise a matrix for employee performance on one axis and project initiative importance on another axis a matrix for employee performance on one axis and compensation quartile on another axis a matrix for employee performance on one axis and retention on another axis or any other appropriate matrices and axes. If the user desires to see a given matrix element more clearly he makes an indication to that matrix element causing the matrix element to be expanded maintaining relative position to the other matrix elements while all other matrix elements of the plurality of matrix elements are modified in order to make room. If the user desires to move an object from one matrix element to another matrix element or from the unassociated group to the matrix element he moves the object via drag and drop. In some embodiments multiple objects are moved at once e.g. multi select employees in one matrix elements then drag and drop them all to a new matrix element .

In various embodiments an attribute of an object is associated with a matrix row or a matrix column or a matrix element.

Database system comprises interface processor and memory . In some embodiments interface comprises an interface configured to receive an indication of a matrix element for expansion. In some embodiments processor comprises a processor configured to provide a matrix for display wherein the matrix includes a plurality of matrix elements and provide a modified matrix for display wherein the matrix element selected for expansion is expanded maintaining relative position to all other matrix elements of the plurality of matrix elements wherein all other matrix elements of the plurality of matrix elements are modified. In some embodiments memory comprises a memory coupled to processor and configured to provide processor with instructions.

Database system user comprises a database system user using database system . In some embodiments database system user comprises an employee at a company purchasing database system services. Database system user comprises a database user accessing database services on database system . In some embodiments database system user comprises a user who uses a user interface e.g. a keyboard a touch screen a display etc. to interact with database system . In various embodiments the user interface is associated with a desktop computer a laptop computer a local terminal smart phone tablet or any other appropriate system with a user interface. In some embodiments database system user comprises an employee at a company purchasing database system services. In various embodiments there are 1 2 4 13 22 115 or any other appropriate number of database system users accessing database services on database system . In some embodiments each database system user only has access to their own data stored on database system and is able to utilize database system as though they are the sole database system user. In some embodiments database system user configures services on database system . In some embodiments a database system user e.g. database system user comprises a person accessing database system via a user interface e.g. a web page. In some embodiments a database system user comprises an automated system accessing database system via a machine interface e.g. a public application programming interface API .

In some embodiments a matrix element size is determined using a total area designated for the matrix. In some embodiments the matrix elements are of equal size. In some embodiments the matrix elements are equal sized in the vertical dimension. In some embodiments the matrix elements are equal sized in the horizontal dimension. In some embodiments the font size and spacing around the font e.g. margins within the matrix element interline spacing is automatically selected based on the matrix element size.

In some embodiments in the event that one matrix element is expanded and an indication is given to a different matrix element to expand the first matrix element is caused to automatically compress itself and the different matrix element is caused to expand.

In some embodiments a modified matrix element size is determined based on font and font spacing size. In some embodiments a modified matrix element size determines font and font spacing size.

In some embodiments the matrix size is determined based on frame s also displayed. In some embodiments a frame displays a filter window. In some embodiments a frame displays a list of objects for placement within the matrix.

In some embodiments when placed the object is automatically associated with the attributes of the column and or the row.

Also there are two distinct ways of thinking of what happens when an object is moved between matrix elements or an unplotted area. In some embodiments the underlying object automatically updates its relationships attributes corresponding to the X and Y axis values of the matrix element. In some embodiments the underlying object has a relationship to the matrix element itself In other words that a worker is a contributor or a star is persisted not just what their performance and potential ratings are after a drag and drop.

In some embodiments an object is moved from one matrix element to another matrix element. In some embodiments the object is automatically associated with an attribute e.g. an attribute associated with a row or a column of the matrix or with the matrix element . In various embodiments the object is moved using a drag and drop operation by clicking on the object and clicking on the matrix element by cutting and pasting or any other appropriate movement operation.

In some embodiments dragging and dropping are both done when a matrix element is expanded. For example when a matrix element is expanded a user is able to drag and drop a set of objects from the expanded matrix element onto a non expanded matrix element. The expanded element stays expanded. The non expanded element s stay non expanded. In various embodiments the objects are made no longer visible in the expanded element partially visible or any other appropriate visibility. This enables quick selection of another subset of objects in the expanded matrix element e.g. to be moved to another non expanded matrix element . In some embodiments this enables users to see the details of the expanded matrix element while simultaneously sorting through it moving objects to other matrix elements without having to repeatedly expand compress or pan around the display. In some embodiments the counts in the matrix elements update themselves giving confirmation that the move was successful but no resizing of the matrix elements happens.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

