---

title: Unified publishing platform that seamlessly delivers content by streaming for on-demand playback and by store-and-forward delivery for delayed playback
abstract: Some embodiments seamlessly deliver video content by streaming the video content for on-demand playback and by store and forward delivery of the video content for delayed playback. In some embodiments, a user combines a plurality of video content items from a plurality of content sources, organizes the video content items into a set of playlists, and assigns the playlists to a set of channels for distributing the video content items in the playlists. In some embodiments, each channel is associated with at least two video distribution protocols that deliver the video content items of the assigned playlist at approximately the same time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09027064&OS=09027064&RS=09027064
owner: 
number: 09027064
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130605
---
This application claims benefit to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 656 466 entitled Online System For Simultaneous Streaming Store And Forward Media Delivery filed Jun. 6 2012. The U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 656 466 is incorporated herein by reference.

Organizations and individuals want to manage and deliver video content to a variety of viewing devices. For example video content is regularly viewed by consumers using computers with video playback software or a web browser mobile computing devices such as smart phones and hand held media players tablet computing devices and televisions. In many cases these organizations and individuals need to manage and deliver video content for internal organizational needs such as to support sales and marketing and to provide corporate communications easily and cost effectively. The manner of delivering video content in some cases depends on the accessibility of network resources. Two examples of video content delivery include streaming video content data from a content server to a content client and store and forward delivery of video content from a content server to a content storing device that forwards the video content to the viewing device. However delivery of video content by streaming is different from store and forward delivery of video content. The delivery differences are problematic for those who want the flexibility to decide whether to stream video content or download the video content for future playback.

The differences in delivery of video content relate to a variety of factors including network accessibility and speed user preference video provider preference etc. In terms of network accessibility for example video content can be streamed to a viewing device when there is a persistent Internet connection available but may fail if the Internet connection was not persistent. As many viewing devices connect to a corporate network that provides access to the Internet other factors may be involved. For instance the video content cannot always be streamed to the viewing device due to inconsistent or only periodic Internet access such as when upgrades are occurring on the internal network. Moreover a user of the viewing device may wish to simply delay playback of the video content instead of viewing the video content contemporaneously with a request for the video content. In this case playback of the video content is delayed i.e. occurs at some time after downloading the video content by choice not technical or hardware limitations. Typically preparing the video content for delayed playback involves delivering the video content to a store and forward computing device such as a media player which stores the video content for local playback by the viewing device. Therefore because the video content is stored locally by the media player which is accessible to the viewing device playback of the video is possible without a simultaneous connection to the Internet.

The available systems for delivering video content are typically designed to deliver video by only one of the two mechanisms that is by streaming or by store and forward delivery e.g. for local playback later . None of the prior systems deliver video using these two different mechanisms simultaneously. Therefore it has been necessary for users of these prior systems to acquire and use two separate unrelated solutions to deliver streaming video and at the same time publish video for local playback. This made the process of video delivery using these two mechanisms costly cumbersome and error prone requiring one off custom solutions to support integrated work flows. In addition the prior systems made it impossible to use a single reporting system to track key metrics such as where video content was being displayed and who was viewing the content. Moreover the prior video delivery systems made it impossible to use third party solutions such as ad insertion networks and analytic tools from a single point of integration.

Thus what is needed is a way to deliver at approximately the same time video content by i streaming the video content and ii transmitting the video content by store and forward delivery of the video content. The video delivery solution should also provide a unified report generation system for tracking and reporting on video content distribution.

Some embodiments of the invention include a novel system and process for seamlessly delivering video content by streaming the video content for on demand playback and by store and forward delivery of the video content for delayed playback. In some embodiments the process allows a user to combine a plurality of video content items from a plurality of content sources organize the video content items into a set of playlists and assign the playlists to a set of channels for distributing the video content items in the playlists. In some embodiments each of the playlists comprises a set of video content playback rules for playing the video content items in the playlist. In some embodiments each channel is associated with at least two video distribution protocols that deliver the video content items of the assigned playlist at approximately the same time. In some embodiments a first video distribution protocol delivers the video content items of the playlist by streaming portions of the video content data in sequence to a video playback client for contemporaneous playback of the video content. In some embodiments a second video distribution protocol delivers the video content items by transmitting the entire video content data to a store and forward client for storage and subsequent playback by one or more of a set of video playback clients.

In some embodiments the video delivery system includes a content server computing device connected to a computer network a content playback computing device connected to the content server computing device through the computer network a store and forward computing device connected to the content server computing device through the computer network a database server that provides access to a set of multimedia content assets stored in a content database and a reporting server that generates multimedia content asset reports. In some embodiments a multi layered software application server includes a plurality of applications for creating organizing and seamlessly delivering both streamed and downloaded multimedia content.

In the following detailed description several examples and embodiments of the invention are described. However it will be clear to a person skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to the embodiments set forth and can be adapted for any of several other uses.

Some embodiments of the invention include a novel system and process for seamlessly delivering video content by streaming the video content for on demand playback and by store and forward delivery of the video content for delayed playback.

By providing both streaming and downloading transmission protocols the system and process provides the ability to access create and play video content files from video playback clients in any situation. For instance a video playback client can be connected to the Internet and therefore wish to view the video on demand while at another time the video playback client can be away from a viable and persistent connection to the Internet and thus may wish to delay playback of a requested video. The system and process of some embodiments allows convenient access creation organization and previewing of such video content by creating multiple versions of the video content suitable for distribution under particular situations.

Several more detailed embodiments are described in the sections below. Section I provides a conceptual description of a process and a system for multimedia content creation and delivery. Next Section II provides a description for an architecture of a system that simultaneously delivers video content in different formats for different situations. Section III describes an electronic system that implements multimedia content creation and delivery system.

In some embodiments a process for seamlessly delivering video content by streaming and by store and forward delivery allows a user to combine a plurality of video content items from a plurality of content sources organize the video content items into a set of playlists and assign the playlists to a set of channels for distributing the video content items in the playlists. In some embodiments each playlist comprises a set of video content playback rules for playing the video content items in the playlist. In some embodiments each channel is associated with at least two video distribution protocols that deliver the video content items of the assigned playlist at approximately the same time. In some embodiments a first video distribution protocol delivers the video content items of the playlist by streaming portions of the video content data in sequence to a video playback client for contemporaneous playback of the video content. In some embodiments a second video distribution protocol delivers the video content items by transmitting the entire video content data to a store and forward client for storage and subsequent playback by one or more of a set of video playback clients.

Previously organizations and individuals had to use several different publishing platforms each linked to disparate content databases to deliver video content both through live or on demand streaming to Internet connected viewing screens and as content downloaded to networked media players for local playback controlled by the media player.

In contrast the process performed by the software application of some embodiments eliminates the need to use multiple systems to support video delivery for both streaming and local playback. The software allows users to create multimedia playlists by simply launching a web browser or an application that connects to a web service on the Internet. In this way the user is able to interface with any of several video sources images and data streams and combine them together into a single playlist or several playlists each comprised of video image and data content . Once created the user can assign these playlists to channels for subsequent distribution over the Internet. For instance any playlist that the user creates can be simultaneously streamed to Internet connected browsers phones tablets connected TVs and other streaming devices and downloaded to remote media players for offline playback.

As shown in the process starts when a user logs in and uploads at video content. In some embodiments the user uploads the video content by using a set of software application tools for uploading content. In other embodiments the user uploads the video content by using one or more web services of an application server that provides content uploading tools for selecting transmitting and organizing video content files for upload to a central repository. For instance using a computing device e.g. a PC a tablet computing device a smart phone etc. with an Internet connection the user is able to access the software running on the application server from a web browser via a secure login. Once logged in the user can use multimedia content other users have uploaded to the database on the database server and can also upload their own content.

Once the user uploads the video content the process transitions to where the software application creates multiple versions of each video content asset i.e. item clip file etc. for preview streaming and download. In some embodiments each version of the video content asset is associated with a file that the process creates and stores in a database. More particularly video content is automatically transcoded during the upload process to generate multiple formats of the same video content e.g. one version for low resolution preview and streaming and another version for high resolution download to media players etc. .

The process of some embodiments associates a resource identifier for accessing or linking to each stored database video file. The resource identifier is at least one of a universal resource locator URL an object identity associated with a file system and a unique object ID associated with an operating system. In some embodiments the process creates multiple versions for multiple transmission needs comprising at least a first streaming transmission and a second downloading transmission. In some embodiments the first streaming transmission is a streaming protocol denoted by an Internet mark up language. The mark up language in some embodiments is one of hypertext markup language HTML and dynamic hypertext markup language DHTML . The first transmission protocol of the first streaming transmission is provided through at least one of hypertext transfer protocol HTTP and file transfer protocol FTP . In some embodiments the second transmission is one of HTTP FTP and a protocol for downloading video content in a peer to peer P2P network that identifies downloads and assembles a plurality of video content parts from a plurality of video content providers in the P2P network.

Next the process transitions to where the user accesses a video content store by way of a software playlist management service to create one or more multimedia playlists. In some embodiments preview versions of the video content are used for video content and playlist preview. The user then adds at the playlist to a channel using software channel management service of the process . In some embodiments the user also links the channel to remote media players. Thus the content can be previewed by the user and then organized in playlists which can then be associated with channels. Additionally the user can also configure the networking information necessary for any remote client such as remote networked media players required to download the multimedia content from the database and can link these media players to specific channels.

As the process transitions to the user publishes the channel using a software content publishing service. In some embodiments the software automatically creates i a resource locator URL for streaming the video content from the channel and ii a download link for downloading the video content to any store and forward client linked to the channel. For example when a channel is published by the user all the multimedia content associated with the playlists in the channel is downloaded from the database to any relevant media players in the correct format. At the same time the software generates a unique URL which can be used to stream a different format of the multimedia content in the channel to a web browser for viewing at a client device such as a PC a tablet computing device or smart phone.

Accordingly flow arrows of the process show both streaming and downloading occurring at approximately the same time. Specifically the process shows one flow arrow in which the video content is streamed at to at least one connected video playback client device for contemporaneous playback of the video as the video content is being streamed. The process shows another flow arrow in which the video content is downloaded at to one or more remote store and forward clients for local playback. In some embodiments the store and forward clients are media player clients that store the video content downloaded from the channel for local playback at any connected video playback client upon request. In addition the media player clients can store the video content downloaded from other channels for local playback upon request from any of the video playback clients.

In some embodiments after streaming and transmitting the video content the user can utilize the software to generate various reports to reflect where channels have been published and how these channels are being viewed. conceptually illustrates a schematic diagram of a network topology of a video content creation and delivery system in some embodiments. As shown a group of users is associated with an organization i.e. Organization 1 which is associated with several different locations i.e. Location 1 Location 2 and Location 3 . In some embodiments each location can be associated with one or more rooms which include one or more devices. For example in Organization 1 is associated with Location 1 which includes two rooms i.e. Room 1 and Room 2 and where Room 1 includes Video Devices 1 2 and 3. Likewise Location 2 is associated with rooms and devices and Location 3 is associated with another set of rooms and video devices. While not expanded in detail in this example Organization 2 is associated with one or more locations each of which includes one or more rooms having one or more video devices.

The network topology of the video content creation and delivery system in conceptually illustrates location based ordering of video content in an example topology of a single organization. In some embodiments the video content creation and delivery system includes multiple interconnected organizations connected to the same network e.g. the Internet and which independently create and distribute multimedia content. conceptually illustrates a schematic diagram of multiple interconnected organizations that provide video content creation and delivery services on the same network in some embodiments. Specifically this figure shows an interconnected network topology with multiple centrally managed groups of users i.e. Organization with User 1 and User 2 and four Other Organizations that are able to access a shared pool of multimedia content e.g. Organization s Media with role based access levels permissions e.g. User 1 User 2 Any Organization User . Users are also able to upload their own content items e.g. images text feeds videos or record live video content e.g. broadcast video to categorize name and describe as a media resource which is also uploaded to the pool of multimedia content. The uploaded content items and recorded videos are automatically shared with all other users in their user group s . During the upload process multiple versions of each content file are created e.g. resizing images and text feeds and transcoding multiple versions of the videos for preview and simultaneous display on TVs websites smart phones and tablets. These multiple versions of each file are automatically associated with each other with the uploading user and with the user group s that this user belongs to. Permitted users can create playlists using content from the shared content pool and all content uploaded by them and other users in their user group s . Templates are associated with each playlist to determine how each type of multimedia content will be displayed in relation to other types of content. Users can assign scheduling rules to playlists to control when the content will be displayed once published. Published playlists can be assigned to one or more channels with the user able to assign multiple playlists to each channel.

While the interconnected network topology of is shown from the standpoint of users in a single organization that is connected to other organizations the distribution of the organization s multimedia content over the interconnected network is described by reference to which conceptually illustrates a schematic view of a video content creation and delivery system that seamlessly delivers both streamed and downloaded video content in some embodiments. In particular this figure shows simultaneous stream and download distribution of multimedia content over the Internet from a video content creation and delivery software system to content playback clients and store and forward content media players .

The video content creation and delivery software system includes content delivery application software and an associated content database . The content database of some embodiments is hosted in a data center. The video content creation and delivery software system further includes a plurality of application service layers for creating and distributing multimedia content. The application service layers comprise a presentation layer a database layer and an interface layer . In some embodiments the presentation layer comprises a plurality of front end application services to which the content playback clients and the content media players can connect. The database layer of some embodiments comprises a content database service. The interface layer of some embodiments comprises a plurality of back end application services for content delivery monitoring and reporting.

Each content playback client comprises a web browser operating on a computing device and shown on a display screen of the computing device and other connected display screens. The web browsers connect over the Internet to the content delivery application software and associated content database of the video content creation and delivery software system . In some embodiments content is streamed from the content delivery application software and associated content database upon request from a content playback client .

In some embodiments the store and forward content media players are networked media players that are connected over the Internet to the content delivery application software and associated content database of the video content creation and delivery software system . In some embodiments content is downloaded by the networked media players from the content delivery application software and associated content database . The downloaded content is stored locally by the networked media players for future playback controlled by the networked media players in some embodiments.

In relation to the interconnected network topology described by reference to the seamless distribution of multimedia content by stream and download delivery in demonstrates how channels can be linked to networked media players in remote locations. Specifically when a channel is published a unique URL is generated for that channel such that the channel is streamed to view the content by accessing this URL. For channels that are linked to remote media players relevant content and playback rules are downloaded over the Internet to each media player linked to that channel after the channel is published. Content can be downloaded to remote media players immediately after the publishing step or at other times. Each time a playlist or channel is modified and republished the associated channel URL remains the same but the content streamed from this URL is automatically updated to reflect any changes in content associated playback rules. Modifications to playlists and or channels are also automatically downloaded to any linked remote media players .

In some embodiments the database layer is linked to the other service layers by way of multiple data stores comprising a content store a user content store and an analytics store . In some embodiments the data stores in the database layer are accessible to applications in the presentation layer through channels and playlists stored in a presentation store that interfaces with each of the content store the user content store and the analytics store . In some embodiments the stores and are content databases that are hosted by one or more database servers. The databases can be online networked databases local databases embedded databases or a combination of these databases. In some embodiments the stores and are included in a single database hosted by a database server. In some embodiments the single database is a relational database hosted by a relational database management server. In other embodiments the single database is an object database hosted by an object oriented database server.

The user content store in some embodiments acquires and persistently stores all user related data. In some embodiments the user content store comprises a plurality of user stores for a plurality of users. In these embodiments each user is allocated a separate user content store.

The content store of some embodiments acquires and stores all multimedia content uploaded to the service along with associated content attributes and maintains the linkages between multiple versions of the same content for preview download or streaming.

In some embodiments the presentation layer manages all user interactions with the software and can be linked to multiple websites for user access. The presentation layer provides access to various web services that manage different user functions. In some embodiments these web services include system administration content upload live broadcasting playlist management channel management content publishing and report and monitoring .

The system administration service provides access to various administrative functions based on user privileges including the management of users organizations locations rooms media players and content sharing.

The content upload service manages all functions related to uploading multimedia content. When video content is uploaded the content upload service of some embodiments automatically transcodes the multimedia content to create multiple formats of the same original multimedia content file. In some embodiments the multiple formats are created for previewing the video content local playback of the video content on a media player and streaming the video content to connected viewing devices for on demand viewing.

The live broadcasting service manages all functions related to broadcasting a live video stream originating from a live video source. Users can schedule live broadcasts and publish a unique URL that allows viewers to watch the live broadcast online. In some embodiments at the end of the broadcast the video is archived and transferred to the content upload service .

The playlist management service is used to create playlists of multimedia content. In some embodiments the multimedia content of a playlist includes one or more of video content still image content alpha numerical text content symbolic icon content and data content streams. Through an easy to use drag and drop interface users access content in the content store and then add the accessed content to one or more playlists. Users can choose to have playback templates created automatically or can create or select their own templates. Once a playlist is created it can be previewed and then published to a channel. Schedules can also be assigned to playlists to control playback times. The presentation store in some embodiments maintains all playlist and channel data along with the linkages between playlists content and user data.

The channel management service allows users to create channels and add playlists to the channels. This service also manages the linking of channels to specific streaming URLs and to remote media players. Multiple playlists can be added to each channel and channels can be grouped manually or automatically base on shared attributes.

The content publishing service controls the distribution of the video content for each channel. When a channel is published the content publishing service automatically assigns a unique URL to the channel for streaming playback on any connected viewing device. This URL references the correct format for each file to be streamed from the content store . The content publishing service also controls the downloading of the correct content format to remote media players for local playback.

In some embodiments the system updates channels such that any changes to published channels are seamlessly delivered to the same URL as originally published and any changes are also downloaded to respective media players. Users can also choose to have content downloaded within specific time windows.

The reporting and monitoring service allows users to generate reports on system performance and usage. In some embodiments the reporting and monitoring service accesses relevant data from the analytics store in order to generate specific types of reports.

The interface layer manages all the connections between the various web services the database store and any remote devices and services. In some embodiments the interface layer includes a plurality of application programming interfaces APIs for managing the connections. The plurality of APIs in some embodiments comprise a content distribution API for managing all content delivery and streaming a monitoring and notification API for monitoring and controlling networked media players and a reporting API for tracking and measuring system performance and usage.

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium or machine readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some embodiments multiple software inventions can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software inventions. In some embodiments multiple software inventions can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software invention described here is within the scope of the invention. In some embodiments the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the electronic system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only the system memory and the permanent storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the invention. The processing unit s may be a single processor or a multi core processor in different embodiments.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the electronic system. The permanent storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the electronic system is off. Some embodiments of the invention use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the permanent storage device .

Other embodiments use a removable storage device such as a floppy disk or a flash drive as the permanent storage device . Like the permanent storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such as a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some embodiments the invention s processes are stored in the system memory the permanent storage device and or the read only . For example the various memory units include instructions for processing multimedia items in accordance with some embodiments. From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some embodiments.

The bus also connects to the input and output devices and . The input devices enable the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. The input devices include alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . The output devices display images generated by the electronic system . The output devices include printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some embodiments include devices such as a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples electronic system to a network through a network adapter not shown . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN an Intranet or a network of networks such as the Internet . Any or all components of electronic system may be used in conjunction with the invention.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows may be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some embodiments include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media may store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the invention has been described with reference to numerous specific details one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention can be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance many of the figures illustrate processes systems and network topologies intended for video content distribution. However other multimedia content can be distributed in the same or similar manners e.g. creating multiple versions of audio files one for low bandwidth needs and one for high bandwidth needs . Thus one of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the invention is not to be limited by the foregoing illustrative details but rather is to be defined by the appended claims.

