---

title: Indirect real-time monitoring and control of electrical resistively heated adsorbent system
abstract: A method for indirectly monitoring and controlling an electrically resistive adsorption system. Adsorption of a predetermined adsorbate is conducted while indirectly monitoring electrical resistance of a unified adsorbent element. Breakthrough is predicted based upon the indirectly monitored electrical resistance and a previously measured mass loading relationship between the resistance of the unified adsorbent element and the loading of the unified resistance element with the predetermined adsorbate. Adsorption, regeneration and cooling cycles are controlled by a controller without any direct measurement of temperature or resistance of the element and characterizations of mass loading and temperature. Systems of the invention can have no sensors that contact the element, are in an adsorption vessel, and/or are downstream adsorption vessel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08940077&OS=08940077&RS=08940077
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08940077
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130221
---
The application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 604 618 which was filed on Feb. 29 2012. This application is also a continuation in part of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from application Ser. No. 12 827 630 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 500 853 which was filed on Jun. 30 2010 which claimed priority from provisional application Ser. No. 61 266 789 which was filed on Dec. 4 2009.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. CBET 12 36203 awarded by National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A field of the invention is sorption and desorption systems that use electrically heated activated adsorbent elements such as activated carbon fiber cloth ACFC elements. In general the invention is applicable to systems including unified adsorbers that can be heated electrically e.g. ACFC and monolithic adsorbers . Example applications of the invention include to adsorbate removal systems that process gas streams from other processes.

Rood et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 364 936 incorporated by reference herein provides for selective sorption and desorption of gases with an electrically heated ACFC element. In the 936 patent an adsorption desorption unit includes a hollow enclosure containing one or more elongated hollow elements of ACFC of appropriate length to cross sectional area to provide suitable electrical resistance for heating. The elements conduct electrical current to heat to a temperature that permits selective adsorption of a gas stream constituent and subsequent desorption to recover a sorbate. An enclosure houses the ACFC elements and is arranged to direct gas stream flow through the elements and into and out of the enclosure via gas ports. The ability to heat the elements to a desired temperature by electrical current flow allows for straightforward implementation of selective adsorption. After an adsorption cycle altering the temperature of the element or elements enables desorption. A thermocouple is used to monitor temperature of the ACFC in the enclosure. In a particularly preferred embodiment the enclosure with the element also includes a liquid condensate outlet and liquid sorbate is directly recovered as liquid from the same unit used for adsorption and desorption.

Rood et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 080 095 incorporated by reference herein provides a steady state tracking desorption system and method. In the 725 application a steady state tracking desorption system achieves steady tracking of either a fixed sorbate output set point or a set point that changes over time. The system includes an electrically heated thermal adsorption desorption device. A temperature sensor such as a thermocouple senses the temperature of an adsorbent material within the adsorption desorption device. A sorbate sensor such as a hydrocarbon sensor senses a sorbate concentration from an outlet of the adsorption desorption device. A power sensor senses the power supplied by the desorption device. A controller interprets levels sensed by the temperature sensor the sorbate sensor and the power sensor and provides a signal to achieve steady set point tracking of a sorbate concentration from the outlet of the adsorption desorption device.

Rood et al. U.S. Patent Application 20110132031 incorporated by reference herein now U.S. Pat. No. 8 500 853 provides gas purification methods and systems for the recovery and liquefaction of low boiling point inorganic and organic gases such as CO NH chlorofluorocarbons methane and propane. Low boiling point gases are adsorbed with activated carbon fiber material during an adsorption cycle. During a desorption cycle the activated carbon fiber is heated to a temperature to regenerate the fibers and generate a gas stream enriched with the low boiling point gases. This desorption gas stream is actively compressed and or cooled to condense and liquefy the low boiling point gases. These methods and systems can provide recovery and liquefaction of low boiling point inorganic and organic gases such as CO NH chlorofluorocarbons methane and propane. The low boiling point gases can be collected stored re used sold etc.

Optimizing performance of ACFC thermal swing systems like those discussed above requires accurate monitoring of the temperature of ACFC cartridges during adsorption and desorption cycles. This is accomplished in the above patents with a temperature sensor such as a thermocouple that directly contacts the ACFC cloth.

The parent of the present application directed toward the recovery of low boiling point gases also uses thermocouples for temperature sensing. However the parent of the present application also discloses using resistance measurement to determine the temperature during the desorption cycle when electrical power is being applied to heat the ACFC. This is disclosed for example in 0023 of US Patent Application 20110132031. The resistance based sensors functions well and reduce the need for direct temperature sensors e.g. thermocouples that are attached to the adsorbent. As discussed in 0094 of the 031 published application thermocouples can provide incorrect values and fail due to aging or required maintenance operations. Such thermocouples can be damaged during resistive heating for regeneration.

Commercially used systems typically use beds that are not electrically heated which provides less control than the above Rood et al. devices and also have additional drawbacks compared to the above discussed systems often require downstream sensing to determine when regeneration or replacement of adsorption material is necessary or when destruction equipment must be adjusted. All known commercial systems known to the inventors that use different types of adsorbents and adsorbent heating processes also use downstream hydrocarbon sensors.

Various systems are commercially in use in a wide variety of manufacturing industries to reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds VOCs . Environmental control devices such as thermal oxidizers or vessels containing granular activated carbon GAC are examples. Thermal oxidizers require costly auxiliary fuel and convert VOCs to HO CO and NO. GAC allows for capture and recovery of VOCs but GACs are known to ignite during adsorption cycles when treating a wide range of VOCs such as ketones. Non regenerable GACs also require additional cost for replacement and disposal of the saturated adsorbent which is often categorized as a hazardous waste. Capture and recovery of these VOCs for reuse without costly ignition issues reduces atmospheric emissions and improves air quality while providing feedstock for reuse reducing manufacturing cost and conserving materials.

Various sensors in the above discussed oxidizer ACFC and GAC systems can be expensive and require frequent maintenance. Direct temperature i.e. thermocouples sensors used in ACFC systems can fail. For example thermocouples in contact with an adsorbent have been shown to periodically fail from loss of adsorbent contact and from shorting the electrothermal regeneration circuit resulting in burning of the thermocouples and ACFC which can necessitate repairs and reduced system operating time.

Hydrocarbon sensors used with adsorption and thermal oxidizer systems can also fail. The hydrocarbon sensors used in the adsorption and thermal oxidizer systems are expensive 10K require weekly calibration and periodically fail. For example infrared hydrocarbon sensors that operate with GAC control devices used for aircraft coating operations at Hill Air Force Base HAFB Utah typically fail after 2 4 months of operation.

The general cycles in the various systems include adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles. Adsorption and regeneration cycles are typically controlled based on measurements from hydrocarbon sensors which requires their initial purchase maintenance and periodic calibration. Other systems also use local temperature sensors e.g. thermocouples to control electrothermal heating during regeneration cycles and to determine when a cooling cycle is complete.

Patents and publications concerning bed based GAC have used direct contact local resistance to measure loading. For example Puskas U.S. Pat. No. 6 593 747 discloses a system that uses a packed bed of carbon particles. Local conductivity measurements are taken with pairs of opposing electrodes that are immersed in the packed bed. The local conductivity measurements are correlated to local saturation of the packed bed. The same technique is also disclosed by Puskas Del Vecchio et al. New Method for Monitoring of Adsorption Column Saturation and Regeneration I. Demonstration of the Measurement Principle Chemical Engineering Science 59 2389 2400 2004 . Similarly N.D. Del Vecchio Puskas and Barghi New Method for Monitoring of Adsorption Column Saturation and Regeneration I. Demonstration of the Measurement Principle Chem. Eng. Comm. Vol. 189 3 pp. 352 71 2002 discloses measurement of the resistance of the local area in a packed bed of adsorbent particles between two parallel plates that contact the particles.

Selective adsorbent activity characterization in the prior work discussed in the previous paragraph shows a change in electrical resistance measured locally with direct contact to a packed adsorbent bed that occurs during adsorption which can be used to determine the end of an adsorption cycle and when regeneration of the adsorbent is complete. This process in addition to requiring direct electrical contact with a packed bed fails to account for dependence of resistance on temperature. It is therefore limited to systems that operate at constant temperature and cannot be utilized for commonly used thermal swing adsorption systems e.g. electrothermal swing adsorption ESA system which are typically more cost efficient for treating gas streams with high flow rates few thousand m hr . This relationship between electrical resistance and adsorbed mass at constant temperature has also been previously described by others. See R. Haines R. S. Benson G. C The effect of physical adsorption on the electrical resistance of activated carbon Journal of Chemical Physics 15 1 17 27 1946 .

ACFC is known to act as a typical semiconductor at relevant adsorbent temperatures 20 200 C. such that resistance decreases as temperature increases. Electrical current and voltage measurements are typically required and used for electrothermal heating in known devices.

The present inventors have determined that accuracy of condition monitoring and control of ESA adsorption systems like those discussed can be enhanced. The invention accounts for change in resistance of a unified adsorbent from changes in adsorbed mass during adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles and the simultaneous change in resistance that occurs when the adsorbent s temperature changes during these cycles and thus can be utilized for any non isothermal or thermal swing adsorption system.

An embodiment of the invention is a method for indirectly monitoring and controlling an electrically resistive heated adsorption system. Adsorption of a predetermined adsorbate is conducted while indirectly monitoring electrical resistance of a unified adsorbent element. Breakthrough is predicted based upon the indirectly monitored electrical resistance and a previously acquired mass loading relationship between the resistance of the unified adsorbent element and the loading of the unified resistance element with the predetermined adsorbate. Adsorption is halted before the predicted breakthrough. The adsorbent element is regenerated. It is then cooled while indirectly monitoring temperature of the unified adsorbent.

Preferred systems of the invention include a unified electrically heated adsorption element. Adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles are controlled by a controller without any measurement of the element using characterizations of mass loading and temperature. Systems of the invention can have no sensors that contact the adsorbent element or that are in an adsorption vessel and can also avoid downstream adsorbate sensors.

Embodiments of the invention provide an ESA system that selectively removes vapors and gases from carrier gases to effectively dispose of them or recover them as feedstock. Systems of the invention avoid reliance upon sensors that contact the absorbent and or gas sensors that are used downstream of the device e.g. PID and can determine data required for operation so that complete adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles can be controlled and monitored simply and indirectly. Methods of the invention permit determination of the mass of the captured adsorbate in real time during the adsorption and regeneration cycles with indirect measurements. The system uses an adsorbent element or elements that are unified. The overall electrical resistance to adsorbent loading of each and or all of the adsorbent element s for an adsorbent of interest is determined in advance.

Unified adsorbent elements include for example ACFC and monolithic adsorbent elements. These examples can also be considered to be rigid. The ACFC cartridges in the Rood et al. patents and patent applications discussed in the background provide example of ACFC cartridges locating in adsorption vessels. A unified adsorbent element or group of elements can have its overall total resistance measured indirectly through voltage and current meters that monitor power between a power source and the unified adsorbent element s . The meters do not contact the adsorbent element s . In preferred embodiments having an adsorption or plurality of adsorption vessels each with an adsorption or plurality of adsorption elements there are no sensors within the vessel. Temperature and loading is determined solely from indirect determination of total resistance of adsorbent element s within a vessel from voltage and current measurements taken outside of the vessel. The adsorbent loading and temperature to electrical resistance relationship for the element s is predetermined through testing or calculations .

In preferred embodiments complete adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles are controlled based on measurements from a remote ammeter and a remote voltmeter that are used to calculate electrical resistance and applied power without any input from direct contact thermocouples or hydrocarbon sensors. There are no temperature or electrical sensors that contact the unified adsorbent elements. Required electrical measurements can be taken from conductive supports that are in electrical contact with the adsorbent element s contact that is preferably made outside of the adsorption vessel. There are no temperature or electrical sensors within an adsorption vessel. Actual meters for voltage and current are not touching the adsorbent and can be located away from the adsorbent and its vessel. However they need to be attached to an electrical conducting circuit that includes the adsorbent. There are no downstream adsorbent sensors.

Methods of the invention can be safe simple and relatively inexpensive. Methods of the invention are automatically controlled throughout all cycles and breakthrough is predicted so that regeneration can commence so that no or only tolerable trace amount of adsorbent passes through the vessel prior to the commencement of regeneration. The prediction of breakthrough is based on feedback from indirect sensing of the voltage applied across the adsorbent and the current flowing through the adsorbent. Embodiments of the invention do not require sensors such as hydrocarbon detectors or thermocouples that are in direct contact with the adsorbent. Resistance and temperature are also determined indirectly during cooling and adsorption cycles via application of small power to the adsorbent element s which allows the controller to commence each and every cycle necessary to conduct an efficient adsorbent recovery operation.

Adsorbents that are captured and recovered include valuable adsorbents that can be recycled into a process from which the input stream for treatment was received or into another process. Adsorbents can also include contaminants that are recovered and stored or destroyed in a manner that complies with good environmental and economic practices.

In methods of the invention electrical resistance of the adsorbate is calculated from measured current and voltage to detect the cumulative amount of adsorbed mass and temperature during an adsorption cycle. The change in electrical resistance during an adsorption cycle allows for real time monitoring of this adsorbed mass and prediction of breakthrough. In preferred embodiments an adsorption cycle includes applying a small amount of power to unified adsorption element s during adsorption. The amount of power is low enough to avoid essentially any heating of the element s but permits the indirect measurement of resistance during adsorption determination of the adsorbed mass and prediction of breakthrough. A regeneration cycle is commenced prior to breakthrough and the unified adsorption element s are electrothermally heated based on electrical resistance feedback. Heating is ended once a specified power calculated from measured current and voltage limit is reached. The mass that is desorbed is determined real time by comparing the measured power to the power profile acquired from preliminary testing for a particular adsorption element s and adsorbate configuration which involved heating the adsorbent before any vapors or gases were adsorbed. The preliminary test can be conducted on the actual device being used or can be based upon devices that are sufficiently identical to validate the resistance to temperature and mass loading relationships that are used during operation. A cooling cycle is also monitored indirectly with application of power that produces essentially no heating and the temperature is accurately determined from predetermined resistance to temperature relationship for the element s . The cooling cycle is ended when a specified electrical resistance value is reached which eliminates the need for temperature measurement devices. Once the cooling cycle is complete an adsorption cycle begins and the process repeats without requiring any inputs from temperature or hydrocarbon sensors. This method can be applied for thermal swing adsorption systems having unified adsorbent element s that can be heated electrically. Example unified adsorbent elements that are also rigid and that can be heated electrically include ACFC cloth ACFC cloth cartridges and monolithic adsorbents.

Embodiments of the invention provide a simple safe low maintenance and low cost process to monitor and control systems that determined adsorption and desorption cycles. The invention is particularly useful in systems like those disclosed in the Rood et al. patents discussed in the background and that are incorporated by reference herein. Embodiments of the invention are based on indirect electrical measurements which eliminate the need for hydrocarbon sensors local resistance sensors that are embedded in the adsorbent and local temperature sensors. In preferred methods of the invention an ESA system is controlled through adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles using only indirect electrical measurements. An entire ESA method is provided that does not require any hydrocarbon or local embedded temperature sensors. In methods of the invention adsorbed mass and its affect on electrical resistance of an adsorbent is considered during control.

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings may include schematic representations which will be understood by artisans in view of the general knowledge in the art and the description that follows. Features may be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis and features may not be to scale.

In preferred methods of the invention the electrical resistance of an adsorbent is considered to determine adsorbed mass in an adsorbent along with the adsorbent temperature and execute a control strategy for adsorption desorption and cooling in the absence of any other information. Specifically no direct temperature or hydrocarbon in general gas detector measurements are used. Methods and systems of the invention operate adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles that are controlled entirely based on indirect electrical resistance measurements eliminating the need for thermocouples and hydrocarbon sensors. Methods of the invention provide prediction of breakthrough before it occurs during an adsorption cycle.

Methods of the invention are based upon a recognition that adsorption of VOCs or other adsorbents onto ACFC or other unified adsorber will influence the electrical resistance and that the overall resistance loading and temperature of an adsorber element can be indirectly determined to control an adsorption cycle predict breakthrough commence and end regeneration and monitor cooling and recommence adsorption. The amount of decrease in electrical resistance will depend upon the mass adsorbed and the number of electron donors in the adsorbate. While others have previously recognized that the local resistance in packed carbon beds can be directly measured and that resistance is related to mass loading methods of the invention are based upon characterizing unified adsorption element s as a whole.

It has been known that electrical resistance can increase decrease or initially increase and then decrease during an adsorption cycle For example activated carbon resistance decreased by 3.1 and increased by 0.9 after adsorption of isobutane and ethylene oxide respectively in published experiments. The decrease in resistance during hydrocarbon adsorption is proportional to the number of carbon atoms in the adsorbate.

The relationship between adsorbed mass and electrical resistance was demonstrated in experiments with ACFC cartridges and unlike prior research the entire adsorption element in this case an ACFC cartridge was characterized sufficiently in bench scale to permit complete indirect monitoring and control. The effect that adsorbed mass has on electrical resistance is used along with resistance to accurately estimate temperature that can therefore characterize and be used in real time to control an ESA system which involves simultaneous mass and heat transfer.

The experiments demonstrate a method to indirectly monitor and control ACFC ESA of VOCs that involves using existing remote electrical current and voltage measurements to determine the ACFC s temperature and provide real time monitoring of adsorbed and desorbed mass based on these electrical properties. This method does not require direct temperature or hydrocarbon sensors reducing system capital and operating costs and increasing simplicity safety and run time by eliminating the failures associated with each sensor

In experiments the ACFC unified adsorbent element s electrical resistance was initially characterized based on adsorbent temperature and amount of adsorbed organic gas i.e. isobutane . This relationship was utilized to develop control logic to monitor and control ESA cycles based on resistance and applied power values. The resistance measurements were then used to predict breakthrough during adsorption cycles and automatically terminate those cycles. Electrothermal heating was performed based on resistance values and applied power values were used to detect adsorbed mass desorption to determine the end of regeneration cycles. The electrical resistance was also used as a temperature sensor to determine the end of cooling cycles. Three continuous sets of adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles were then performed sequentially based entirely on indirect electrical measurements fully demonstrating a cyclic ESA process that does not require any downstream adsorbate sensors e.g. hydrocarbon sensors or local temperature sensors.

The specific test apparatus was constructed in small scale and is shown in . A vessel included an ACFC cartridge therein. Valves control adsorption and regeneration flows. A photoionization detector was used downstream in the clean output path to verify effectiveness of control of the invention but would not be used in preferred methods of the invention. shows a preferred embodiment system of the invention which does not use any direct temperature measurements or downstream hydrocarbon measurements. The controller includes a predetermined profile that accounts for mass loading of a predetermined adsorbate to be adsorbed. Without any direct sensors the controller controls a power supply during all cycles including adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles. Current I and voltage V are measured based on V IR and are used to obtain resistance R and power P IV is used to obtain power. A small voltage is used during adsorption and cooling cycles to be able to make current and voltage measurements. Voltage is controlled during regeneration cycles to achieve a resistance set point and power is measured. While a single vessel with a single ACFC cartridge as the unified adsorbate element is shown the process can be made continuous with the use of additional vessels so that one or more additional vessels are conducing adsorption while a first vessel is being regenerated.

The unified adsorbent e.g. an ACFC cartridge as in the experiments is first characterized for an adsorbate of interest and then the control parameters can be established for the controller . illustrates preliminary characterization and then the resultant control for adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles. illustrates the indirectly determined parameters used for control in a preferred method of operation by the controller . Three preliminary characterization steps and are carried out on an actual unified adsorbent or sufficient corollary such as a scaled model for an adsorbate of interest. The adsorption capacity is determined for the specific adsorbate which can be carried out at room temperature or the expected temperature during an adsorption phase. The resistance versus temperature with no adsorbate is determined . The adsorbed mass vs resistance is also determined . An adsorption cycle is conducted until resistance changes to indicate that capacity would be reached in advance of breakthrough. The resistance is measured indirectly by sensing the voltage and current externally while having the power supply apply a small amount of power that produces essentially no heating of the adsorbent. The breakthrough can be predicted with information from and . During regeneration the vessel is first purged with Nor other inert gases and then heating is conducted by applying electrical power up to a resistance set point determined in . The ACFC heating is ended after the power application reaches the steady state power required to heat ACFC with no adsorbate or an amount of power that is needed to desorb adsorbate has been applied described in paragraphs 0043 0051 . A time limit could also be used as having been determined in advance which would require no measurements to end regeneration. Cooling is conducted with measurement of the resistance indirectly via the application of the small amount of power to an acceptable resistance set point determined in . The cycles for a preferred three phase control are summarized in . The entire control is conducted without any direct measurements in the vessel and without any downstream adsorbate dectectors. The adsorption cycle 38 indirectly monitors electrical resistance change to predict breakthrough. Regeneration includes heating to reach an indirectly monitored resistance indicative of desired temperature based upon preliminary characterization for adsorbent with adsorbed material and then continues until time energy or power is met. The energy or power are determined with indirect measurement of resistance and or voltage and current applied over time. Cooling is continued until indirectly measured resistance indicates that a desired temperature for adsorption has been reached.

The regeneration heating can be ended when the applied power for a given resistance set point reaches a level that indicates adsorbent that is free of adsorbate or at a predetermined minimum level. The regeneration heating can also be ended based on predicting the mass that is desorbed based on the resistance and power measurements during the regeneration cycle which is illustrated in . Heating to the desorption temperature is conducted. Preliminary characterizations of resistance to temperature and temperature to power are required. See Sullivan P. D. Rood M. J. Grevillot G. Wander J. D. Hay K. J. 2004 Activated carbon fiber cloth electrothermal swing adsorption system. 38 18 4865 77. The power preliminarily measured without adsorbate is subtracted from the power indirectly measured with adsorbate and compared to the mass to energy gained that has been calculated for the adsorber.

Experiments implemented an indirect control method of the invention. For all experiments a 50 SLPM gas stream containing 2 000 ppm isobutane was directed into the vessel until breakthrough was detected as measured with a hydrocarbon detector photo ionization detector or a specified change in electrical resistance occurred. After breakthrough the vessel was purged of Owith 15 L Nat 5 SLPM. The Nwas then reduced to 0.5 SLPM and feedback controller was activated to heat the ACFC. The controller was designed with computer software and controlled DC voltage to a silicon controlled rectifier SCR which supplied up to 120 V AC that was then reduced with a variable voltage transformer Variac and applied to the ACFC for heating. Direct contact Type K thermocouples 0.081 cm diameter measured ACFC temperature during heating. Root mean square RMS voltage and RMS current applied to the ACFC were measured with a potentiometer and a current transformer connected to an ammeter respectively. A small voltage 

Cyclic ESA involves sequential operation of adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles. For all experiments the adsorption cycle involved passing a 50 SLPM gas stream containing 2 000 ppm isobutane through the ACFC which was at ambient temperature 21 26 C. until breakthrough was detected as measured with a hydrocarbon detector photo ionization detector as a control test or the occurrence of a specified change in electrical resistance based upon the indirect resistance measurements obtained with low power levels while applied and voltage and current monitored via a voltmeter and ammeter outside the vessel. With a pre characterized ACFC cartridge the experiments show that breakthrough could be predicted. Selection of the resistance value that corresponds to the adsorbed mass is described below and takes into account the specific adsorbate. After breakthrough the regeneration cycle was initiated which involved purging the vessel of Owith 15 L Nat 5 SLPM. The Nwas then reduced to 0.5 SLPM and a feedback controller was activated to heat the ACFC. The controller was designed with computer software and controlled DC voltage to a silicon controlled rectifier SCR which supplied up to 120 V AC that was then adjusted with a variable voltage transformer Variac and applied to the ACFC for heating. After the regeneration cycle was complete a cooling cycle was initiated that involved reducing the voltage applied to the ACFC 

The initial adsorption cycle began with the ACFC at ambient conditions of 21 C. and the following cycles began once the ACFC cooled to 22 C. after regeneration. The average electrical resistance and temperature were recorded and are shown in . Electric resistance decreased linearly with duration of the adsorption cycle. The average change in resistance of the ACFC per unit loading of isobutane g isobutane g ACFC was 0.632 i.e. slope of linear regression in with R 0.994 . These results are indicate that the decrease in resistance of the ACFC at ambient temperature can be used to predict the duration of the adsorption cycle and the amount of adsorbed mass in anticipation of breakthrough.

An initial phase of experiments involved characterizing an adsorbent cartridge for an adsorbate to determine a resistance response to predict breakthrough. In specific detail ACFC adsorbent used was ACC 5092 15 American Kynol Inc. with an areal density of 176 g m BET surface area of 1 335 m g total pore volume of 0.64 cm g microporosity of 96.6 and average micropore width of 0.76 nm. All adsorption experiments were performed with isobutane in a 1.5 L interior volume Pyrex vessel containing an annular ACFC cartridge as in . Bench scale measurements are initially performed to empirically determine the necessary characterizations of the entire cartridge for a particular adsorbate. The results are scalable for full scale system but each different adsorbate is tested to determine the characterizations. The cartridge was constructed by wrapping a 25 260 cm rectangle 115 g of ACFC around 1.9 cm outer diameter stainless steel annular electrodes. The ACFC was clamped to the electrodes with steel hose clamps resulting in 22 cm length of ACFC for current to travel through the cartridge. Gas flow rates were controlled with mass flow controllers air Aalborg model GFC571S isobutane nitrogen Tylan . Gas streams for adsorption cycles were generated by mixing isobutane Aeropres Corp. 97.8 isobutane vapor withdrawal with house compressed air that passed through silica gel and a high efficiency particulate air filter to remove water and particles. Direct contact Type K thermocouples 0.081 cm diameter measured ACFC temperature for purposes of verifying experimental control but would be omitted in preferred systems that execute control methods of the invention. Root mean square RMS voltage and RMS current applied to the ACFC were measured with a potentiometer and a current transformer connected to an ammeter respectively. During all cycles the external wall of the vessel was convectively cooled with a fan 14 cm diameter blades . All measurements were continuously stored at 1 Hz with Labview software and National Instruments hardware.

The ACFC s electrical resistance was characterized during adsorption and desorption at ambient temperatures. Resistance and adsorbed mass values were acquired while passing carrier air initial clean conditions in section A then carrier air with isobutane adsorption cycle in section B and then carrier air desorption into clean air in section C through the ACFC cartridge.

Part A of the data in was acquired with clean air passing through the ACFC cartridge. When air was initially passed through the cartridge in section A the electrical resistance of the adsorbent remained constant during 80 min with a mean of 1.31 and relative standard deviation of 1.2 .

Part B of the data in shows behavior during adsorption of isobutane. As shown resistance decreased at 0.86 per unit mass of isobutane g isobutane g ACFC with R 0.97. This demonstrates a strong relationship between adsorbed mass and resistance. As isobutane was desorbed into the air stream the adsorbent s resistance returned to the initial value with a mean of 1.31 and a relative standard deviation of 1.7 during 80 min at t 1400 min part C . Trends in the adsorbed mass values calculated based on measurements from a hydrocarbon sensor were inversely related to the resistance measurements showing consistency between the mass transfer detection methods.

The PID detector downstream proved inaccurate. Calculating adsorbed mass based on the PID sensor resulted in negative values during desorption 500 min . This is unrealistic because the ACFC was thoroughly regenerated before experiments. From this we determined that the resistance provides a better representation of mass transfer than the direct hydrocarbon measurements.

For indirect monitoring a small amount of power is applied by the power supply to generate a small amount of current and voltage that can be measured externally to the adsorption vessel. The adsorption experiments were performed while controlling the voltage applied to the ACFC to achieve a constant current of 1.5 A which was a value large enough to achieve stable control of the current and small enough to not increase the temperature of the adsorbent more than 1 C. With constant current maintained voltage can be calculated as directly proportional to resistance based on Ohms law. At the start of the adsorption cycle a one minute average of voltage was stored as V. The isobutane adsorption cycle was terminated once the average voltage changed by 0.06 V corresponding to 0.04 a value selected based on and the outlet isobutane concentration was measured . The average 3 runs breakthrough percentage outlet concentration inlet concentration of isobutane 100 at the end of adsorption cycle was 

The ACFC regeneration power profile in can be described as a series of four distinct steps. First the regeneration power profile increases rapidly as the controller ramps the voltage to the maximum value 18 1 V AC to begin electrothermal heating. Second the voltage remains constant while the temperature of the ACFC increases. This results in a gradual decrease in resistance and thus a gradual increase in current and power. Third the resistance reaches the set point value temperature stabilizes and the controller reduces voltage to avoid overshooting the set point which results in a corresponding rapid decrease in power application. Forth heat transfer to the surrounding components reaches steady state and the voltage stabilizes 6 2 V AC to maintain the resistance set point at the regeneration temperature. After an adsorption cycle additional energy beyond the energy required to heat the ACFC is used to also heat and desorb the isobutane. Thus additional heating time at the maximum voltage level step is required to reach the regeneration temperature which is apparent in . Then after the isobutane has desorbed from the ACFC the power profile reaches a steady state value that is the same as the steady state value for ACFC without isobutane.

For the data in resistance feedback control was first utilized to heat and maintain the ACFC without adsorbate to a resistance of 0.76 which corresponds to a temperature of 160 C. for the bench scale system. ACFC that experienced isobutane adsorption to 50 breakthrough as in was also heated to the same resistance value. includes the average temperature resistance and power profiles for heating ACFC with three cycles and without four cycles adsorbed isobutane for 30 min. The consistency in resistance control values between each case suggests that differences between temperature and power profiles for the case with and without isobutane can be attributed to the adsorbed material. The larger differences in temperature profiles occurred at the beginning of the regeneration cycle because isobutane decreases the ACFC s electrical resistance and then the temperature profiles converge as the isobutane desorbs from the ACFC. This indicates that the end of regeneration can be automatically determined as the time when the temperature of ACFC with adsorbate converges within a specified range of the case without adsorbate. This technique to determine the end of regeneration has value because it removes the necessity of a hydrocarbon sensor or other adsorbate detector to detect the end of regeneration but it still requires local temperature measurement. The power profiles were also examined to determine a technique to detect the end of a regeneration cycle with no hydrocarbon sensor and no local temperature measurement. For regeneration of ACFC both with and without isobutane power increased to 350 W to achieve rapid initial heating and then dropped to a constant level of 50 W to maintain the ACFC at the regeneration temperature of 160 C.

The experiments permitted the energy from the heat of adsorption Eq 1 to be determined for isobutane. Adsorption was first performed until equilibrium conditions were achieved. The total energy gained during the adsorption cycle is based upon Eq. 1 but modified as follows 

Where H the isosteric heat of adsorption for isobutane kJ mol P ambient pressure atm Q flow rate of adsorption gas stream LPM x the mole fraction of isobutane in the gas stream assuming 100 capture efficiency t time min 

The experiments show that indirect power measurements can be used to end a regeneration cycle which contributes to providing a control method that uses indirect monitoring and control through adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles without requiring any hydrocarbon or direct temperature sensor. The cumulative applied energy can also be used to end a regeneration cycle and provides a real time prediction of desorbed mass and also does not require a hydrocarbon or direct temperature sensor. Additional experimental details about the regeneration control and characterization of a cartridge can be found in Johnsen D. L. and Rood M. J. 2012 Temperature Control during Regeneration of Activated Carbon Fiber Cloth with Resistance Feedback Environmental Science Technology 46 20 11305 11312 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Resistance values were smaller during the cooling cycles that followed isobutane adsorption regeneration than the cooling cycles without adsorbate. This is expected since isobutane is not completely desorbed during regeneration cycles and reduces the ACFCs resistance. The resistance profiles converge as the temperature becomes closer to the ambient temperature suggesting the adsorbate mass has a smaller effect on resistance at lower temperatures and can be used to predict the end of a cooling cycle without considering the average remaining adsorbed material which was 28.2 of the total adsorbed mass for these bench scale experiments. These experiments present characterization of the electrical resistance during ACFC cooling that can be used to determine when to terminate the cooling cycle and initiate the next adsorption cycle removing the need for temperature sensing during the cooling cycle.

Three consecutive ESA cycles each including adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles were controlled entirely based on indirect current and voltage measurements showing the first successful implementation of ESA based on indirect electrical measurements. The resistance adsorption set point was then manually eliminated to allow the isobutane to reach equilibrium with the ACFC. Temperature and resistance profiles from this test are included in . When operated with this preferred process of the invention based on electrical measurements the adsorption vessel did not reach breakthrough as can be seen from the small concentration values 

The experiments demonstrated that each cycle for a new indirect process for operating an ESA system that eliminates hydrocarbon sensors and temperature sensors and includes methods for determining the real time predictions of the mass of adsorbed and desorbed material during its adsorption and regeneration cycles respectively and the temperature of the adsorbent during its regeneration and cooling cycles. The experiments were performed at the bench scale to validate each of these three cycles required for ESA. Each cycle was controlled at the bench scale based only on indirect electrical voltage and current measurements. Automated ACFC adsorption regeneration and cooling cycles have also been performed successfully in series based on indirect electrical voltage and current measurements to achieve thermal swing adsorption i.e. ESA .

The experiments with isobutane can be repeated of course with other adsorbates. Once the effect of mass loading is determined during adsorption then the indirect electrical measurement are accurate with a control strategy of the invention to determine when to regeneration.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

