---

title: System for navigation in a computer user interface
abstract: Embodiments described herein provide various features for a unified and simplified user experience. A first feature (or set of features) provides icons for launching or accessing applications and business flows. A second feature provides a unified menu system including an icon bar with thumbnails of a selected icon arranged adjacent to the icon bar. A third feature provides a framework for a menu that can expose application objects from diverse sources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09448693&OS=09448693&RS=09448693
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09448693
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 707 221 entitled SYSTEM FOR NAVIGATION IN A COMPUTER USER INTERFACE filed on Sep. 28 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in full in this application for all purposes.

Embodiments described herein provide various features for a unified and simplified user experience. A first feature or set of features provides icons for launching or accessing applications and business flows. A second feature provides a unified menu system including an icon bar with thumbnails of a selected icon arranged adjacent to the icon bar. A third feature provides a framework for a menu that can expose application objects from diverse sources.

A further understanding of the nature and the advantages of particular embodiments disclosed herein may be realized by reference of the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.

Users of enterprise software applications may frequently need to access a broad variety of products and tools to complete business flows and tasks. These Enterprise Resource Planning ERP and transactional tools may be served from local or remote e.g. Internet or cloud based sources and can include separate pillar services such as Human Capital Management HCM Customer Relationship Management CRM Supply Chain Management SCM and others.

End users of enterprise applications may encounter long navigation flows to accomplish relatively simple tasks. These flows may require multiple links deep hierarchies and deeply branched decision trees. As a result users may make errors and become frustrated as they spend too much time completing tasks. It is desirable to provide a user interface that makes improvements in areas such as one or more of end user intuition efficiency productivity etc. 

Embodiments described herein provide various features for a unified and simplified user experience. Although multiple features may be described together it should be apparent that features can be used alone or in concert with other features whether the other features are disclosed in this application or exist elsewhere. In one embodiment a unified menu solution can apply to both gesture based mobile devices desktop based devices using a cursor or other pointing device voice commands data glove or other means of input and control for generalized computing devices. Televisions music players game consoles personal digital assistants phones and any other suitable mobile or static platform or device could be adapted for use with one or more of the features disclosed herein.

This application describes three basic categories of features. In general any suitable implementation of the features may be acceptable including local or remote processing or a combination of both local and remote processing. Features or characteristics thereof may be combined across categories. Not all features need be used in a particular embodiment. In some embodiments features may be used in a modified form that is different from what is described. Any one or more features may be used and some features may be used by themselves as standalone features depending upon the implementation.

It should be apparent that although specific types of controls are shown other embodiments may use different types of controls to implement the functionality described herein. For example although buttons may be shown the functionality can be invoked with other types of controls such as a slider knob radio button link hyperlink menu list etc. In general any type of control whether software hardware or a combination of both can be used. Further different types of devices may be used so that user selection can be by any suitable input device such as a mouse and pointer keyboard trackpad touchpad touchscreen eye recognition biometric image or other electromagnetic sensing etc. In any of these various embodiments the functions may be invoked by user hand movement finger or digit manipulation eye or other physical movement voice recognition etc. The interface can be 2 dimensional or 3 dimensional. Any suitable type of input and or output devices can be employed. Any suitable components of a computing system can be used with embodiments of the invention.

In the user has activated icon button . As a result a grid or array of thumbnail images of recent places associated with the user is displayed. This is similar to a web browser history of recent pages that a user has visited. The user can be recognized by logging into the system with a username and password. Or the user can be recognized by the system in other ways such as by using information stored on a device e.g. a cookie by using biometrics etc. The thumbnails for Recent Places are shown in a grid having 2 rows and 4 columns. In general different grid arrangements and sizes of thumbnails can vary. Also different thumbnail arrangements from the grid view may be used.

In a particular embodiment not only are web pages the subject of Recent Places thumbnails but application pages panels or other display portions of an application can also be shown. Depending on how the MeeBar is configured the sensitivity or types of locations can be set or filtered. For example a particular view in a user s email can be represented. Or a directory or subdirectory can be shown as a thumbnail. Other types of locations can be used as the subject of thumbnail views associated with the Recent Places icon button or with other icon buttons. The thumbnails provide a visual cue or recognition for the user. When the user selects a thumbnail e.g. by clicking or touching the thumbnail then the user s view is switched to the selected location.

The user can edit the existing thumbnails by clicking on thumbnail edit button . After clicking the thumbnail edit button the user can highlight and delete thumbnails drag to move thumbnails change color style size or other properties of thumbnails or make other changes to the existing thumbnails. Any suitable manner of allowing the thumbnails to be added or edited can be employed.

In selecting My Job Tasks shows thumbnails in grid view area that correspond with tasks that the user must frequently perform. Naturally these tasks can vary with different employee positions and responsibilities. Similar to the previous discussion selecting a thumbnail takes the user to the location represented by and associated with the selected thumbnail.

Referring to add icon button and icon edit button allow a user to respectively add and edit icon buttons. In a particular embodiment selecting add icon button displays a library of icon buttons and or features that the user could choose to add to their MeeBar. So if a user did not want a My Team icon button the user could choose another button to add in its place allowing the user to tailor the MeeBar to fit their needs.

It should be apparent that although specific arrangements of control buttons icon buttons and thumbnails are shown that various features may be equally usable in other arrangements. For example the icon buttons may be arranged on the top or bottom or vertically along the left or right sides of the thumbnails. Other arrangements are possible such as icon and or control buttons intersecting or crossing the thumbnail view overlapping the thumbnail view using multiple MeeBars etc.

In other embodiments different formats for the thumbnail layouts or views may be used such as a list overlapping sets a carousel etc. In a particular embodiment the MeeBar acts like a floating toolbar that can be toggled on or off with a single click. The MeeBar can present a role dependent view of recent favorite worklist team based or other personalized pages. The bar provides a simple uniform way to rapidly navigate to desired pages for both enterprise and consumer content. It is adaptable to both desktop and tablet platforms. Users can complete transactions directly from pages exposed by the bar or they can click on pages to further drill down in context. Thumbnail objects include tiles that can be exposed in a grid or in a hierarchy.

Although a particular style has been illustrated for the MeeBar it should be apparent that other styles can be used. In a particular embodiment a style approach is used to try to make objects larger more colorful and fun for users.

An Enterprise Global Dynamic Menu Framework GDMF includes a framework for a menu that can expose dynamic data including navigation elements interactive data application objects and other objects from diverse sources in one unified location. A location can include for example a page panel or other portion of a display generated by an application program such as a word processing program spreadsheet workflow management browser etc. The locations can be obtained from products from a particular software manufacturer 3rd party vendors or from other sources. Different locations can have different styles or look and feel represented in different manners but still share underlying structure and data in a dynamic nature.

In one embodiment a global menu framework for enterprise software is provided that can include menu elements across all software offerings from the product line suite all the way down to the function feature level. With this framework an enterprise software vendor can manage and create many specific secure multi platform or platform specific menu instances for different user types roles. Each menu entry in the menu can load and run independently. This prevents slowing down of other menu entries if for example one rich content menu entry takes a long time to load or there is a bug. This also prevents one menu entry from bringing down the whole menu system. Using this framework a user can access all of an enterprise software vendor s products in one place that the user has access to as well as have quick access to key data points and tasks.

In one embodiment home menu can serve as the root node or starting point. Menu entries can support a variety of content such as pop ups or other static and or dynamic content. Security is maintained via login inactivity logout and re login support. Certain menus may require additional logins as well. Both web and standalone target applications are supported by the menu framework across platforms such as laptops desktops tablets TVs and other mobile devices. The menu can be accessed in any desired fashion such as being provided as a default upon power up via a menu soft or hard keys etc.

In general a GDMF menu instance can support a variety of devices. Certain ones can be made to support certain devices with specific UIs for that device to ensure an optimal user experience. So while different GDMF instances may show the same data they can show it in different views to be optimized for that device.

Enterprise Manager or Sales Representative flows or other types of business or application flows and their respective data sources seeded to the GDMF include the state within an application program app as shown by the user interface for a particular user at a particular point in the operation. For example a flow includes a representation of information as displayed on the user s screen along with any control options that may provided to a user at that particular state or location within the application. Similarly data sources can be locations with representations or states. For example an Enterprise Manager can be an application that seeds database information. The data can be provided to the menu as a particular location without exposing anything else about the Enterprise Manager application.

In the DBA framework shown in menu includes categories grouped as Favorites at and Oracle Products at . Naturally any other categories can be defined. A menu selection All Down Targets is used to bring up panel which includes database names that are currently down. The statuses of the databases are shown by red arrows to the left of the panel. These red arrows can change to other shapes icons or symbols to indicate other characteristics or properties. In a different embodiment numbers can be used such as adjacent to menu selection to indicate e.g. the number of databases that are down or the number of entries that will be shown in the panel if the menu selection is selected.

In a particular embodiment clicking on a database name or adjacent symbol in panel brings up a display of the corresponding database s control panel so that the DBA can take additional action. The database control panel can be implemented as a web page. Or alternatively an application can be launched or accessed to present a control panel to take action or to edit the corresponding database. In general any type of functionality may be invoked including 3party applications from disparate manufacturers.

A framework can also be tailored to a CRM manager who needs to monitor navigate and act upon key dashboard data without having apps loaded in browser windows. An example of an interface for a CRM manager framework is shown in . Other applications are possible. shows the menu for key sales functions for the user as defined by a team responsible for the Data Sources and the GDMF Menu Instance. The look and feel UI design of this Menu Instance serves to present the data sources in this manner but a different menu instance could present the same data in a different manner even with the same underlying Data Sources. The team behind the data sources decided that certain tasks like Create Opportunity should be exposed and available. The GMDF Menu Instance implementer can then decide to take all or specific parts of this data source for their specific menu instance.

Each application that is written to a framework can independently push via Application Programming Interfaces APIs for example customizable menus to a separate instance which serves as a higher level organizational framework. Different instances of the GDMF can be made via the API to have a desired look and feel or to support unique or similar devices while still sharing the same repository of data sources . By maintaining a separate instance for the menu framework and menu items specific applications or menu items that are unavailable or down need not impact the performance or selection of other items in the menu tree. In various embodiments customers can modify the menu instances via an admin account or such modifications can be made via the API. Customers can even choose and setup different menu versions of different GDMF Menu Instances for different user roles and or platforms.

The GDMF can provide a centralized uniform and or simplified entry point to installed enterprise applications. It can provide a desired or optimal user experience across different platforms enabling the user to rapidly complete tasks using a simplified user interface that is optimized to that device user and user professional and computing skill set. Various applications can co exist with a uniform entry experience. In many cases key data updates can be available without navigating to specific applications. Unlike browser bookmarks links can also be dynamically updated thus improving or ensuring data integrity.

In Global Dynamic Menu Framework GDMF object is the primary object that contains the primary core codebase for the GDMF. In one embodiment the GDMF object includes the core code that controls the way the framework works. The GDMF object also includes core shared code among the GDMF Menu Instances at ranging from all elements of its operations including a model view and controller core code including core code functionality of the GDMF API Data Sources and 3rd Party Data Sources shown at .

GDMF Menu Instances objects inherit functionality from the GDMF. In one instantiation shown in for security purposes they can do this programmatically via the API in order to preserve the integrity and security of the GDMF. When updates to the GDMF core code base need to be made they can be done to objects and the children objects mentioned above will inherit those enhancements and be updated in the process as discussed below regarding . GDMF API object is an application program interface to communicate directly and securely with the GDMF object. Data Sources 3rd Party Data Sources and GDMF Menu Instances all leverage the API to communicate with the GDMF and with each other. The implementing organization can control the visibility of the API internally for 3rd parties and for the public.

The Data Sources at are the primary data sources provided by the implementing organization for use with the GDMF via the GDMF API. They are typically UI agnostic. Data that will be used in menu entries part of GDMF Instances ranging from a product line to a task are captured in this object. At the lowest level tasks may be captured as a Data Source. This object will contain any references to and or actual relevant data as allowed by the API Dynamic Application Connection Application Task Connection Dynamic Image etc. that can then be used by any GDMF Menu Instance for rendering and interaction by the end user. Higher level data sources like Oracle Fusion Applications can contain mostly references to children sub Data Sources but may contain their own unique data or data references as well.

Third Party Data Sources are similar to Data Sources except that they are not created owned maintained by the implementing organization company vendor but rather by 3rd party organizations. The implementing organization company vendor may allow 3rd parties to seed content to the GDMF via the GDMF API. It is up to the implementing organization if the API will be open to any some or specific 3rd parties. This security layer could be achieved with developer keys. These 3rd party data sources would most likely be hosted on their own servers but could be packaged with the GDMF base installation or provided by the vendor as an add on.

GDMF Menu Instances is a specific instantiation of the GDMF that can be interacted with by the user usually in rich visual manner. Numerous of such instances would be expected for different devices screens and users. A GDMF instance will contain references to specific primary vendor implemented and 3rd Party Data Sources and will render the respective data sometimes all or selectively in a manner that is appropriate and in line with the menu instance. For example The Menu Instance many render Create Knowledge Base Entry Data Source in one visual manner but the Menu Express Mobile and Tablet Instance may render it in another visual manner and may also choose not to include all aspects of the data source because of spacing screen real estate and user function needs.

Home Menu is typically the top level menu. Examples of a home menu include those shown in above. The Menu Instance can have 1 or more Menu objects. A user may be required to login before being allowed to access a home menu. Depending on a length of time since the user logged in and or sensitivity of function a user may be prompted to login for access. The home menu can contain any number of menus and sub menus shown at .

Menus such as Home Menu Menu or Sub Menus can contain one or more Dynamic Menu Entry objects such as and . It is at the Dynamic Menu Entry objects that different types of data can be visually displayed in the menu to be viewed and or interacted with. A Menu Instance s definition includes information about how each of these different types of information should be displayed such as Dynamic Application Connection Application Task Connection Dynamic Image etc. shown at . Content from a Data Source will appear in the Menu Instance in a certain visual manner based on how content for that Dynamic Menu Entry content type has been determined to be displayed for that menu instance. Custom entries can be made as well.

For example in the down database instance menu could be a custom creation by the product team to achieve such a result. At the same time the sub menus shown in could just use standard Dynamic Menu Entry look and feel for that standard content type. For example Create Opportunity can use the standard Application Feature Connection so it will use whatever UI style for that type of Dynamic Menu Entry as defined by that Menu Instance.

In a particular embodiment when accessing specific Menus and Sub Menus a security login may or may not be required as determined by a set of rules first governed by the GDMF then the Menu Instance and then the Data Source in that order of decision. GDMF in this case has final say so to speak about security login necessity. This is done to ensure a uniform user experience regardless of menu instance or data source.

Main View pulls together applications across pillars and products such as Human Capital Management HCM Expenses and Sales etc. Selecting an application can open a fully functional transactional page. Also as a result of selecting an icon the icons become re arranged to the top of the page.

For example selecting Opportunities icon results in a secondary view view shown in . In the icons from the larger rectangular grid area are arranged into a strip or row at top area . The same icons are displayed in their same relative ordering. However in other embodiments only a portion of the icons need be replicated and the ordering could change. Since Opportunities was selected the larger screen area below top area is used to display a location in an application associated with the Opportunities icon. As shown in the location is an active page view of the open opportunities and other related information for the current user.

Selecting Directory icon results in the display of showing secondary view . In this case an organization org chart from an HCM application is opened. The org chart comes from a HCM application. Another tab that is not selected is a contact management tab that comes from a different application. If the contact management tab is selected then the display changes to show a display generated by or using information from the contact management application which is a different application from the HCM application.

Selecting Expenses icon from main view opens a transactional page listing personal expenses to create the secondary view as shown in . Selecting Career icon opens a career planning page shown in where job qualifications can be monitored and searched. shows controls for changing setting such as user interface tailoring to change the style or look of the interface. The style or look of the user interface sometimes referred to as the skin can be easily personalized and customized by end users or administrators admins directly on a live environment. An admin for example could select a default color scheme logo and other elements for a particular customer or industry. In a particular embodiment various skin personalization attributes are exposed using one or more side tabs.

Note that selecting an icon from either the main view or from one of the secondary views serves to generate the secondary view associated with that icon. In each secondary view there is a visual cue such as tag arrow of to show which icon the larger screen area display corresponds to.

Upon selecting More Details punchout button in a separate application is launched. In this case it is a Fusion application manufactured by Oracle Corp. The screen for the Fusion application is shown in . The Fusion application is provided with information on which profile the user was viewing when the punchout was selected. This allows the Fusion application to provide additional information to the user about the entry that was the subject of the user s display in the previous application FUSE in this example .

Home button is provided so that the user can return to the original application. In this example when the user presses or activates the home button the user is returned to the main or home screen in the original application. In other words the user would be returned to the screen display of .

Although the description has been described with respect to particular embodiments thereof these particular embodiments are merely illustrative and not restrictive.

Any suitable programming language can be used to implement the routines of particular embodiments including C C Java assembly language etc. Different programming techniques can be employed such as procedural or object oriented. The routines can execute on a single processing device or multiple processors. Although the steps operations or computations may be presented in a specific order this order may be changed in different particular embodiments. In some particular embodiments multiple steps shown as sequential in this specification can be performed at the same time.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a computer readable storage medium for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus system or device. Particular embodiments can be implemented in the form of control logic in software or hardware or a combination of both. The control logic when executed by one or more processors may be operable to perform that which is described in particular embodiments.

Particular embodiments may be implemented by using a programmed general purpose digital computer by using application specific integrated circuits programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays optical chemical biological quantum or nanoengineered systems components and mechanisms may be used. In general the functions of particular embodiments can be achieved by any means as is known in the art. Distributed networked systems components and or circuits can be used. Communication or transfer of data may be wired wireless or by any other means.

It will also be appreciated that one or more of the elements depicted in the drawings figures can also be implemented in a more separated or integrated manner or even removed or rendered as inoperable in certain cases as is useful in accordance with a particular application. It is also within the spirit and scope to implement a program or code that can be stored in a machine readable medium to permit a computer to perform any of the methods described above.

As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow a an and the includes plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Thus while particular embodiments have been described herein latitudes of modification various changes and substitutions are intended in the foregoing disclosures and it will be appreciated that in some instances some features of particular embodiments will be employed without a corresponding use of other features without departing from the scope and spirit as set forth. Therefore many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the essential scope and spirit.

