---

title: Electromagnetic cloak using metal lens
abstract: A cloak is provided for concealing an object to an electromagnetic field. A first vane encloses the object and a second vane encloses the first vane. The distance between the first and second vanes varies relative to the object, so as to conceal the object to the electromagnetic field.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09095043&OS=09095043&RS=09095043
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09095043
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130227
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to relates to an apparatus to cloak objects large and small from electromagnetic radiation. In particular the invention relates to an electromagnetic cloak having plates adjacently disposed at a separation distance.

Due to the ever increasing use of electromagnetics the United States armed forces need methods to prevent electromagnetic interference. Preventing electromagnetic interference is also useful in the private sector. The physical implementation of an electromagnetic cloak is a relatively new idea although the basic physics of electromagnetism has been long known. An electromagnetic cloak can conceal an interior object to electromagnetic radiation by not disturbing the electromagnetic field outside of the cloak in a detectable way. Such a cloak can be used anywhere there is an object that interacts with an electromagnetic wave.

In order to cloak an object radiation must travel around the object and reconstruct on the other side in both phase and amplitude. The path around an object embedded in free space for example is longer than the path radiation would take in free space if the object were not there. Free space radiation travels at the speed of light and so the velocity of the wave taking the longer path must travel faster than the speed of light so the phase can reconstruct on the other side. The wave velocity denoted constitutes the phase velocity which can travel faster than the speed of light without violating physical laws because there is no energy moved by phase velocity.

In a true cloak the radiation is generalized to any polarization and frequency and can originate from any origin. Scattered waves are non existent and transmitted waves are not distorted in either phase or amplitude outside the cloak. The cloak behavior would not depend on the electromagnetic nature of the object being cloaked. There exists no known physically realizable cloak that can accommodate all these generalizations simultaneously. Therefore a need exists for an effective electromagnetic cloak that can prevent electromagnetic interference.

Conventional shielding techniques yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a cloaking system for use in an electromagnetic field includes a shielded element a first plate enclosing the shielded element and a second plate enclosing the first plate. The first plate and second plate are separated by a distance that varies by a distance depending on design optimizations. The first and second plates together create a first vane. Exemplary embodiments provide the shielded element comprises a portion of one of a wind turbine an airplane and an antenna.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

There has been recent and dramatic interest in the concept of an electromagnetic cloak. The cloak can conceal an object to electromagnetic radiation by not disturbing the radiation outside the cloaking shell. In a true cloak the radiation can have any polarization and frequency and can originate from any origin. Scattered waves are non existent and transmitted waves are not distorted. There exist no known cloaks that can accommodate all these generalizations simultaneously that are physically realizable. Typically a cloak is fabricated with particular restrictions placed on the electromagnetic radiation such as polarization propagation direction dimensionality and or use for a single frequency.

Several concepts have been proposed or demonstrated to establish cloaking. In 2005 A. Alu and N. Engheta Achieving transparency with plasmonic and metamaterial coatings 72 016623 available at http repository.upenn.edu cgi viewcontent.cgi article 1175 context ese papers proposed plasmonics to achieve transparency. Their work was based on principles of scattering and interference. In 2006 electromagnetic cloak designs were proposed by J. B. Pendry et al. Controlling Electromagnetic Fields 312 1780 http www.ece.utah.edu dschurig Site Top Cited Publications files 1780.pdf and U. Leonhardt Optical Conformal Mapping 312 23 preprint at http arxiv.org pdf physics 0602092vl.pdf . These latter solutions depend on spatially variant and anisotropic requirements of the index of refraction to bend the wave around an object. The method necessitates the flexibility intrinsic to metamaterials for fabrication. P. Alitalo et al. demonstrated a volumetric broadband cloak that used principles of waveguides Experimental verification of broadband cloaking using a volumetric cloak composed of periodically stacked cylindrical transmission line networks 94 014103 available at http lib.tkk.fi Diss 2099 isbn9789512299874 article8.pdf although that method is limited to small cloaked objects that fit between the guides near the center of the cloak.

The first experimental demonstration of a cylindrically symmetric cloak utilized a graded and anisotropic index of refraction as reported by D. Schurig et al. Metamaterial Electromagnetic Cloak at Microwave Frequencies 314 10 http www.ccc.utah.edu dschurig Site Top Cited Publications files 977.pdf at a frequency of 8.5 GHz. As with most cylindrically symmetric designs the cloak behavior was restricted to rays that did not have an axial component. Further in 2006 the polarization was fixed that simplified design in S. A. Cummer et al. Full wave simulations of electromagnetic cloaking structures 74 036621 http people.engr.ncsu.edu dschuri Site Publications files PhysRevE74036621.pdf . Often applications do not require a true cloak solution.

Exemplary embodiments describe a cloak with restrictions that the radiation is a plane wave with a known direction polarization and frequency. When the electromagnetic wave is of known origin the demand for symmetry is reduced. An application might be to cloak the tall platforms of a windmill farm that interfere with a known transmitter. The disclosure herein extends to cloaks embedded in materials other than free space and those that have a dielectric strength different than one. Such methods have been used for purposes other than cloaks as discussed by P. S. Kildal et al. in Reduction of Forward Scattering from Cylindrical Objects using Hard Surfaces 44 11 1996. Various exemplary embodiments are based on a metal lens model first introduced in 1946 by W. E. Kock in Metal Lens Antennas 34 11 828 836. Conformal mapping techniques can be used to design bent tapered waveguides as demonstrated in 1997 by M. L. Wu et al. Completely Adiabatic S Shaped Bent Tapers in Optical Waveguides 9 2 .

Kock demonstrated a lens effect applicable to antennas by controlling the phase velocity through parallel plate waveguides embedded in free space or air with relative dielectric constant equivalent to unity according to eqn. 1 below 

Kock demonstrated lensing by controlling the phase propagation time through parallel plate waveguides given as modified from the Appendix by 

The concept of the metal lens can be used to cloak objects to radiation of known polarization frequency and origin. Decreased phase propagation time necessary for phase reconstruction at the output is controlled by plate length and separation according to eqn. 2 . Anisotropic behavior of the metamaterial cloak necessary to bend a ray around an object is mimicked by the guides.

As a wave traverses the innermost vane for example the consequential narrowing of the path between the plates increases the phase velocity sufficiently to account for the longer path length required to traverse around the cylinder . Plate geometries are adjusted so that the electrical length of each guide is the same as if the guide and cylinder were absent. Note that unlike Kock s metal lens the plate separation a varies as the wave propagates through the guide. The plate separation distance can be designed to accommodate large size or uniquely shaped objects rather than a cylinder with uniform radius.

For various design solutions as an example of a metal lens cloak the effective electrical length of each vane between vanes plates is guided to conform to that of the external free space path. In addition the electrical length is designed so that destructive interference at the input results in a perfect impedance match. For example the plate in the cloak can optionally be composed of four identical segments of equal radius and circumference. The constant radius guarantees no sharp bends and provides for a smooth propagation path for the electromagnetic radiation to pass. This design naturally opens the vanes structure at the input and output which aids in matching the guide impedance at the input and output serves to flatten the vanes further away from the origin and provides for a smooth impedance transition to the narrowest part of the vane where impedance is the highest much in the same manner that back to back horn antennae would.

The combined physical path length of all four segments of any vane designed this way represented by the dash line electromagnetic wave path can be determined by ray tracing through the geometry resulting in the relation 

Geometry can be used to calculate the physical path length s of a guide a of the 0order guide and b subsequent guides. Each guide has a constant width. The total time for the wave to traverse the guide is 5 where vis velocity of the waveguide. In free space and absent of the guide can and to traverse free space in the absence of the guide the velocity is the speed of light such that 6 

In order for the phase to match at the output of the guide the time difference is set to zero such that 

An example solution of eqn. 7 can be provided for 3 cm and r 0.5 m where the furthest plate has been limited to a constant radius of 1 m. For r a the plate separation converges to 

In the above example the worst case reflection coefficient is for the innermost guide at 9.2 and the best case is for the outermost guide at 2.0 . The reflection coefficient can be improved using by several methods. For example one can include an impedance transformer by flaring the input and output sections which also eliminates the space between the guides as long as overall phase is accounted for. Also the physical and electrical lengths of the guides can be fabricated to so that any reflected wave from the guide output will cancel reflected waves at the guide input.

The cloak assembly denoting cloak and object concealed thereby can operate within an electromagnetic field without producing a detectable disturbance beyond the cloak assembly. Thus both phase and amplitude of the electromagnetic wave must be restored everywhere outside of the cloak to initial characteristics before the immersion of the cloak assembly. Many uses can be made from this concept. For example signal noise from a large windmill farm with an airport radar system can be improved by cloaking each windmill stand thereby enabling the emitted and return radar signals to pass through either direction as if the windmill stand were absent. The metal lens cloak of these embodiments accomplishes the cloaking behavior using metal lens techniques.

There has been recent and dramatic interest in the concept of an electromagnetic cloak. A cloak can conceal an object to electromagnetic radiation by not disturbing the radiation outside the cloaking shell. In a true cloak the radiation is generalized to any polarization and frequency and can originate from any origin. Scattered waves would be non existent and transmitted waves are not distorted in either phase or amplitude outside the cloak. The cloak behavior would not depend on the electromagnetic nature of the object being cloaked. There exist no known cloaks that can accommodate all these generalizations simultaneously. Typically a cloak is fabricated with particular restrictions placed on the electromagnetic radiation such as polarization propagation direction dimensionality and or use for a single frequency.

Conventionally two approaches to cloaking have been pursued prior to the exemplary embodiments. The first approach is based on the principles of scattering often referred to as plasmonic approaches as described by Alu. A drawback of this approach seems to be that higher order scattering modes are difficult to suppress for large cloaks. Thus the mantle cloak seems to be restricted to cloaking objects no larger than a few wavelengths.

The second approach is based on principles of metamaterials which are synthetic materials that can mimic the electric and or magnetic polarization of natural materials but in an engineered and controlled way as provided by Schurig whose metamaterial approach utilized a difficult transformation to design the cloak called transformation optics. The design resulted in a recipe based on effective constituent parameters for the dielectric constant and permeability required by the metamaterial. The square root of the multiplication of these parameters gives an effective index of refraction that varies throughout the material and can be made less than unity.

A further complication is that the variation in index of refraction is typically anisotropic in this approach meaning the parameters are different along each coordinate. These complications make the metamaterial cloak difficult to fabricate. Still further complications exist in trying to design the localized cells in the structure to result in the desired effective parameters and it often takes several iterative design processes between the cell structure modeling desired constituent parameters modeling and the experimental trials. Another disadvantage of this design is due to the high dispersive losses typical of metamaterials. Thus metamaterial cloaks based on cylindrical designs seem to be restricted to sizes on the order of a few wavelengths at most.

These embodiments are extendable to cloaks embedded in materials other than free space and those that have a dielectric strength different than one. Consider a lossless dielectric slab with a relative permittivity 1 and of finite thickness L in the x dimension but otherwise infinite in extent. For a plane wave with normal incidence and known frequency the thickness of the slab can be adjusted to extinguish the reflection coefficient in ways known to those skilled in the art of microwave engineering. Although this results in a unity transmission coefficient the phase delay does not vanish.

As described for the configuration of many parallel plates embedded within the slab . The plates have a period corresponding to plate separation A with electromagnetic polarization assumed. The plates form an effective index of refraction between zero and unity thereby increasing phase velocity through the slab . The phase delay through the slab vanishes if the plate separation A is 

According to an exemplary embodiment from a diagram shown in an electromagnetic signal noise caused by a wind turbine can be reduced particularly from its tower that elevates the turbine above the ground plane . Specifically an annular cloak can be used to obscure the stand enabling electromagnetic waves to pass through as if the wind turbine is absent. While shown on the tower of the wind turbine artisans of ordinary skill will understand that the cloak could also be on the turbine blades in elements of the nacelle or other locations where electromagnetic interference need be reduced.

According to another exemplary embodiment from a diagram in exemplary embodiments can be used to reduce electromagnetic interference caused by struts on an aircraft structurally reinforced by external struts . Electromagnetic interference caused by the struts can be reduced by their concealment to electromagnetic radiation with cloaks . While shown on the struts artisans of ordinary skill will understand that the cloak could be used in other areas of the airplane including internally such as within wing spares internal doors etc. as well as on other portions of the airframe such as leading edges of the wing.

According to an exemplary embodiment as shown in the metal lens is amenable to tunability. Tuning can be accomplished by placing an array of tunable split ring resonators within each vane structure of a metal lens cloak such as metal patterns forming a metasurface printed on a flexible sheet such as a plastic substrate. Each exemplary resonator includes an outer split ring and an inner split ring with the separation of each ring opposite in orientation to absorb the electromagnetic energy from a wave at the tuned frequency. Such split ring resonators enable negative values of permittivity and permeability to be artificially produced whereas such characteristics are not naturally found.

Metal lens cloak designs where each vane is made from four identical segments of plate material of constant radius and circumference a a cloak where vane separation is periodic at the narrowest points and b a cloak where vane separation is periodic at the inputs and outputs.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a one dimensional electromagnetic cloak meaning bending parallel electromagnetic waves from interference from an object along a single plane being effectively along a line. The exemplary technique utilizes a metal lens to guide a plane wave of specific polarization and frequency around an object. The effective index of refraction requirement necessary to extinguish phase delay 0

A central advantage of this approach is that large scale objects can be cloaked due to the low loss nature of the metal lens waveguide. Further anisotropic techniques to guide a wave through a two dimensional path around an object are not necessary. This concept offers simplicity in design and can lead to rapid fabrication time and reduced costs. Thus this is appealing for select applications where the electromagnetic influence of objects along a view path can be removed or at least mitigated.

Various concepts have been proposed to establish electromagnetic cloaking. The method necessitated the flexibility intrinsic to metamaterials to fabricate a cloak which was first demonstrated using a two dimensional cylindrical approach. The radiation was restricted to a fixed polarization and frequency which allowed for a clever approximation to the cloak problem that greatly simplified fabrication.

Constraints to the problem are that the input and output apertures of each individual guide are constant and normal to the input and output face and that each plate is formed of four identical constant radius segments. This latter constraint maximizes curvature enabling smoother impedance transitions through the guides. The dielectric material inside the guide can be the same as that outside the guide and assumed to be unity for the simulations. The electrical lengths are optimized to be a multiple of wavelength to minimize reflection. The smooth transition of the guides enables adiabatic energy to flow through the guide. Such a guide design enables production at very low cost and being very light weight.

Additional references regarding electromagnetic tuning can be obtained from K. A. Boulais et al. Tunable split ring resonator for metamaterials using photocapacitance of semi insulating GaAs 93 043518 2008 or by other such methods. Tuning can also be mechanically provided by varying the plate separation using pressure air hydraulic etc. electromechanical such as piezoelectric magnetomechanical thermoelectric or other means. Thus many techniques exist to tune the metal lens cloak so as to account for different electromagnetic radiation frequencies and or to enhance cloaking within a desired spectrum.

According to an exemplary embodiment the metal lens cloak can have a perfect impedance match by using principles of interference coatings. The vane structure of a metal lens represents a waveguide. In a practical device the input of the waveguide alone can almost match free space. Any remaining reflection can be compensated for by using principles of destructive interference.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

