---

title: Systems and methods for generating lead intelligence
abstract: Techniques for generating marketing lead intelligence information are described. Some embodiments provide a marketing activity support system (“MASS”) configured to generate lead intelligence by aggregating marketing activity information and customer information. In one embodiment, the MASS transmits a marketing message that references a Web page or other marketing content. Next, the MASS receives tracking information about activities of a customer with respect to the referenced Web page. The MASS then generates lead intelligence information about the customer by aggregating the tracking information, personal information about the customer, and/or information about an associated marketing campaign. The MASS may then present the generated lead intelligence information, such as by displaying details about the customer and their activities with respect to the Web page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552591&OS=09552591&RS=09552591
owner: Marketo, Inc.
number: 09552591
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130226
---
The present disclosure relates to techniques for facilitating marketing campaigns and in particular to methods systems and techniques for generating lead intelligence information based on user activity tracking information.

Embodiments described herein provide enhanced computer and network based methods and systems for supporting marketing activities. Example embodiments provide a marketing activity support system MASS configured to generate lead intelligence for example for sales marketing product support client identification research purposes and the like. Lead intelligence is based on an aggregation of marketing activity information and user e.g. customer information. Marketing activity information includes information about marketing activities performed with or by the MASS such as marketing campaign management activities e.g. campaign creation marketing messaging activities e.g. a message or advertisement transmitted to or received by a customer and the like. User information includes information about customers e.g. personal information company information and their activities in response to marketing messages received from the MASS such as tracking information that reflects Web site accesses Web site drive action or other actions performed by one or more customers.

As an overview of the operation of an example embodiment a user e.g. sales representative marketing agent researcher advertiser Web site owner Web site operator online agency utilizes the MASS to manage a marketing campaign. As part of the campaign the user may create and transmit a marketing message via a messaging service . The message may be transmitted via a variety of mechanisms including a direct e.g. one to one messaging service such as email or a broadcast messaging service such as a blog post. The transmitted message references an advertising or marketing resource such as by including a uniform resource locator URL that identifies a Web page or other content or resource e.g. video audio clip application hosted or otherwise provided by a Web site . The Web page resource identified by the URL provides information about a product or service to a potential or existing customer . Prior to transmitting the marketing message the MASS may automatically modify the URL to include one or more tracking identifiers. Tracking identifiers include any names keys and or values which may be specific to the recipient consumer of the message the marketing campaign the message or other entity that is involved in the marketing campaign. The MASS transmits the marketing message via a messaging service . Later the MASS receives an indication that the Web page was accessed by the customer via the URL of the transmitted message. Then the MASS can generate lead intelligence information by aggregating e.g. aligning combining integrating the received indication with information about the user that accessed the Web page and or information about the marketing campaign or message. The MASS then provides the generated lead intelligence to the user .

More specifically the user uses the MASS to perform marketing activities such as creating marketing campaigns transmitting marketing messages and determining the effectiveness of various marketing activities. Marketing effectiveness may be determined and understood in various ways including based on visits and leads to one or more Web sites as well as how such activities relate to a user s behavioral patterns on the Web site. In the illustrated embodiment the user operates a client device e.g. a desktop computer or a mobile device executing a Web browser and or other client software to initially include a tracking code module in the Web site activity . The tracking code module facilitates the tracking of customer activities with respect to the Web site as will be explained further below. Typically the tracking code module is provided by the MASS although in other embodiments it can be obtained from other sources.

Then the user utilizes via the client device the account manager of the MASS to create a marketing campaign activity . A marketing campaign may include a plan to promote a product or service e.g. a webinar via some set of marketing activities. In the illustrated embodiment the account manager can represent multiple campaigns and store them in the data store such that the user can manage and obtain information about each of the multiple campaigns such as relative effectiveness cost generated leads and the like.

Next the user utilizes the message manager of the MASS to create a message for the campaign activity . The message manager may store the created message and related information in the data store . In this example the user creates a message that includes a URL that identifies a specific page or other resource on the Web site which in turn provides additional information and or services related to a particular marketing campaign. For example if the marketing campaign is to promote a new kitchen product the message may announce the new product and provide a link e.g. via the URL to the Web site where a recipient e.g. customer of the message can obtain additional information about the product sign up for a mailing list to receive announcements about the product request a sample of the product purchase the product or the like.

After the user creates the message the message manager automatically modifies the URL of the message to include one or more tracking identifiers. Modifying the URL may include encoding the tracking identifiers in the URL. The included tracking identifiers indicate or are otherwise associated with the user the campaign and or other information e.g. the messaging service used that can be used later to associate use of the URL back to the user and or one or more of his campaigns. In some cases the message manager may also modify the URL in other ways such as to conform to technical restrictions or limits e.g. maximum message size placed on messaging capabilities by the messaging service . The message manager performs these operations in a manner that is transparent to the user such that the user need not manually modify or otherwise perform manual and possibly error prone URL surgery.

The message manager then transmits the message including the modified URL to the messaging service activity . The messaging service may be a direct messaging service such as email where at least some information e.g. email address about the message recipient is known at transmission time. In other cases the messaging service may be a broadcast messaging service such as a blog and or social networking post e.g. Twitter Facebook where the identity of potential recipients is typically not known at the time of message transmission. In such cases the MASS can make known the identities of recipient customer who would otherwise not be known to the user .

The customer receives the message via a browser or other client component e.g. email reader device e.g. smart phone or system e.g. activity . If the customer is interested in learning more about the product promoted by the received message the customer may activate or select e.g. click on the included URL to access the Web page or other resource identified by the URL activity . In turn the Web site provides the requested page to the browser where it is rendered and presented to the customer activity .

Recall that a tracking code module was included in the Web site . In one embodiment this tracking code module is a client side script that executes within the context of the browser when the Web page identified by the message URL is loaded and or rendered for display. The client side script gathers tracking information including the one or more tracking identifiers that are encoded in the URL as well as other information about the activities and or identity of the customer . Then the client side script transmits the tracking information back to the MASS activity where it is recorded by the activity tracker in the data store . This is done with minimal effect to existing page performance. The script may also send data previously stored about the user using HTTP browser cookies or other tracking technologies.

The lead aggregator generates lead intelligence by aggregating e.g. aligning combining information stored in the data store including the tracking information stored by the activity tracker campaign information stored by the account manager messages created by the message manager and the like. In some embodiments the tracking information may include data from one or more Web forms filled out by the customer . These Web forms typically ask the customer to provide some personal information in exchange for information products or services desired by the customer . For example the customer may provide his email address and or other personal information to receive updates about a product launch a product white paper a product sample a developer key a pre release version of a product or the like. In addition the lead aggregator may align local information e.g. campaign information with other information obtained from external information sources such as business intelligence services directory services e.g. White pages Yellow pages business directories search engines news services social networking information and the like. By aggregating data obtained from various internal and external sources the lead aggregator can create a relatively complete profile of the customer even though the customer may have only provided minimal information about himself. The profile may include personal information about the customer as well as information about the activities of the customer with respect to the Web site and or the received message.

The lead aggregator may also score order or otherwise rank generated lead intelligence based on various factors such as company information e.g. company name industry personal information e.g. user name city Web page traffic e.g. page views visit duration . Real time lead scoring is described in more detail with reference to below.

After generating lead intelligence as discussed above the MASS provides the generated lead intelligence information to the client device activity . The client device may then display such as in the context of a Web browser the generated lead intelligence for study or consumption by the user . In other embodiments the generated lead intelligence may be provided to other entities including third party systems possibly in exchange for a fee.

The data store is generally used to store or record information used by components of the MASS including account information e.g. user accounts authorized to utilize the MASS campaign information message information activity information and lead intelligence information.

The described techniques herein are not limited to the specific architecture shown in . For example in some embodiments some functions such as activity tracking are performed by another possibly external or remote system or component. In other embodiments the MASS may not interact directly with users but rather provide user interface components e.g. plug ins or widgets that may be embedded or otherwise incorporated in third party applications or systems such as Web sites smart phones desktop systems and the like. In further embodiments the MASS may provide an application program interface such that external programs can programmatically interact with or invoke functions of the MASS .

In addition although the described techniques for generating lead intelligence information are illustrated primarily with respect to customers or potential customers other types of users are contemplated including existing or potential clients viewers readers subscribers consumers donors or the like. Furthermore although the described techniques are illustrated with respect to textual Web pages and marketing messages other forms of marketing content are contemplated including any network accessible resources such as audio images and or video as well as active or interactive content such as interactive applications e.g. code modules programs online applications smart phone applications games and the like.

An example of an activity tracker code module is provided with reference to Appendix A which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The activity tracker of Appendix A performs various tracking functions including causing an executing Web browser to load a small e.g. single pixel transparent image from a tracking host. In the process an HTTP S cookie is transferred to the tracking host. The transferred HTTP S cookie includes name value pairs which include tracking information such as indications of the current Web page e.g. URL including any parameters referring Web page time and date user information and the like.

The screen of also includes instructions for modifying Web site forms to enable the activity tracker to transmit information from those forms to the tracking host. In particular by modifying the form fields as described the activity tracker can obtain form field information filled in by a potential customer e.g. name company identifiers contact information and transmit the obtained information to the tracking host.

Note that the MASS can manage multiple different message service accounts for a particular user. For example for a single user the MASS can store account credentials for an email service a blog service a Web site administration posting account and the like. Furthermore multiple distinct users can be associated with a single MASS management account. For example users A and B may both be associated with a MASS user account such that each user can perform some or all operations associated with the user account e.g. campaign creation message transmission . In at least some embodiments the MASS may provide fine grained control over privileges such that different users can be provided with different levels of access to the MASS. For example one user may be provided with full control whereas another user may be provided only with access to view lead intelligence reports and not to send marketing messages .

Note that although the management of marketing messages is here described with respect to the Twitter micro blogging service use of other messaging e.g. one to one and or broadcast in nature services is contemplated. In some embodiments other or additional broadcast messaging services may be utilized including social network status updates e.g. a Facebook status update news feeds e.g. RSS Internet news e.g. NNTP Web pages blogs and the like. In other embodiments other or additional direct messaging services may be utilized including email instant messaging text messaging e.g. SMS MMS and the like.

The screen includes product information and a customer intake form . The product information provides information about the product advertised via the message . The customer intake form can be used by the customer to provide personal information in exchange for receiving product updates customer service contacts or the like.

When the browser loads and renders the content of the URL to generate the screen the browser executes the activity tracker as described with reference to and Appendix A. The activity tracker transmits tracking information back to the MASS including the tracking identifiers of the URL referrer information e.g. the Twitter page described with reference to customer information e.g. information provided by the customer via form and the like.

The detailed lead information presented via screen is determined by the MASS by aggregating information from various sources including tracking information gathered by the MASS marketing information associated with messages sent via the MASS e.g. campaign identifiers and personal information about the customer. In at least some embodiments the aggregated information may also include information obtained from external sources such as directories e.g. telephone directories business directories social networking services e.g. information about contacts or friends of a person a redirection proxy e.g. provided by a URL shortening service employed by the MASS a business intelligence service or the like.

Lead information may be presented in other ways in other embodiments. For example in some embodiments periodic emails or other types of messages e.g. instant messages may be sent that include updated or recent lead information such that the recipient of the email can stay apprised of the progress of his current marketing campaign.

Lead scoring rules can specify criteria for various attributes of or associated with the lead. For example attributes related to personal information may include name title physical address email address telephone or fax numbers hobbies and interests financial information e.g. salary and the like. Attributes related to company information may include name physical address company Web site number of employees financial information e.g. revenue earnings industry e.g. software health care and the like. Activity related attributes may include average page views average visit duration last visit date referring Web page search keywords total page views specific page flow visited and the like.

Other techniques for lead presentation scoring are contemplated. For example in one embodiment leads can be filtered e.g. excluded based on various possibly user defined criteria including geographic location domain company marketing campaign or the like. In at least some embodiments the MASS automatically learns user viewing preferences with respect to lead presentation and can dynamically adjust the presentation of leads by for example adjusting lead scoring rules or filtering criteria.

Note that one or more general purpose or special purpose computing systems devices may be used to implement the marketing activity support system . In addition the computing system may comprise one or more distinct computing systems devices and may span distributed locations. Furthermore each block shown may represent one or more such blocks as appropriate to a specific embodiment or may be combined with other blocks. Also the marketing activity support system may be implemented in software hardware firmware or in some combination to achieve the capabilities described herein.

In the embodiment shown computing system comprises a computer memory memory a display one or more Central Processing Units CPU Input Output devices e.g. keyboard mouse CRT or LCD display and the like other computer readable media and network connections . The marketing activity support system is shown residing in memory . In other embodiments some portion of the contents some or all of the components of the marketing activity support system may be stored on and or transmitted over the other computer readable media . The components of the marketing activity support system preferably execute on one or more CPUs and extract and provide quotations as described herein. Other code or programs e.g. an administrative interface a Web server and the like and potentially other data repositories such as data repository also reside in the memory and preferably execute on one or more CPUs . Of note one or more of the components in may not be present in any specific implementation. For example some embodiments may not provide or include the other computer readable media or the display .

In a typical embodiment the marketing activity support system includes an account manager a message manager an activity tracker a lead aggregator a user interface manager a marketing activity support system application program interface API and a data store . The user interface manager and MASS API are drawn in dashed lines to emphasize that in other embodiments functions performed by one or more of these components may be performed externally to the marketing activity support system . In other embodiments the marketing activity support system also includes additional modules such as a URL shortening and or redirection service.

The account manager performs functions such as those described with reference to the account manager of . The account manager manages account information associated with the MASS such as user names passwords account preferences and the like. The account manager also manages campaign information by providing functions for campaign creation deletion and the like. The information managed by the account manager is stored in the data store .

The message manager performs functions such as those described with reference to the message manager of . The message manager facilitates message creation and transmission via one or more messaging services . In some embodiments the message manager may be configured to transmit messages via multiple messaging services including email Twitter blog post instant message or the like. The message manager is also configured to modify URLs in messages to include tracking identifiers and possibly to shorten URLs to comply with message size limitations imposed by one or more of the messaging services . The message manager may also store information about messages e.g. message content transmission date campaign in the data store .

The activity tracker performs functions such as those described with reference to the activity tracker of . In particular the activity tracker receives tracking information from various sources and records the received information in the data store . For example the activity tracker may receive tracking information from a Web browser executing on one of the client computing devices and operated by a customer or other potential lead as the customer access one of the Web sites . The activity tracker may also or instead receive tracking information directly from one of the Web sites and or the messaging services . Furthermore the activity tracker may receive tracking information from a URL shortening service or redirection proxy not shown as these services may be employed to redirect and or translate URLs included in marketing messages transmitted via the marketing activity support system .

The lead aggregator performs functions such as those described with reference to the lead aggregator of . The lead aggregator aggregates tracking personal and marketing information recorded in the data store such as by the account manager the message manager and or the activity tracker . In addition the lead aggregator may aggregate information received from other possibly external sources including business directories telephone directories and the like.

The UI manager provides a view and a controller that facilitate user interaction with the marketing activity support system and its various components. For example the UI manager may provide interactive access to the marketing activity support system such that users can manage marketing campaigns create and send marketing messages and obtain lead intelligence information. In some embodiments access to the functionality of the UI manager may be provided via a Web server possibly executing as one of the other programs . In such embodiments a user operating a Web browser executing on one of the client devices can interact with the marketing activity support system via the UI manager .

The MASS API provides programmatic access to one or more functions of the marketing activity support system . For example the API may provide a programmatic interface to one or more functions of the marketing activity support system that may be invoked by one of the other programs or some other module. In this manner the API facilitates the development of third party software such as user interfaces plug ins news feeds adapters e.g. for integrating functions of the marketing activity support system into Web applications and the like. In addition the API may be in at least some embodiments invoked or otherwise accessed via remote entities such as one of the Web sites and or client computing devices to access various functions of the marketing activity support system . For example a third party application may request lead intelligence information from or provide tracking information to the marketing activity support system via the API .

The data store is used by the other modules of the marketing activity support system to store and or communicate information. As discussed above components use the data store to record various types of information including user information campaign information marketing messages tracking information and the like. Although the components are described as communicating primarily through or via the data store other communication mechanisms are contemplated including message passing function calls pipes sockets shared memory and the like.

The marketing activity support system interacts via the network with messaging services Web sites and client computing devices . The network may be any combination of media e.g. twisted pair coaxial fiber optic radio frequency hardware e.g. routers switches repeaters transceivers and protocols e.g. TCP IP UDP Ethernet Wi Fi WiMAX that facilitate communication between remotely situated humans and or devices. The client computing devices include desktop computing systems notebook computers mobile phones smart phones personal digital assistants and the like.

In an example embodiment components modules of the marketing activity support system are implemented using standard programming techniques. For example the marketing activity support system may be implemented as a native executable running on the CPU along with one or more static or dynamic libraries. In other embodiments the marketing activity support system may be implemented as instructions processed by a virtual machine that executes as one of the other programs . In general a range of programming languages known in the art may be employed for implementing such example embodiments including representative implementations of various programming language paradigms including but not limited to object oriented e.g. Java C C Visual Basic.NET Smalltalk and the like functional e.g. ML Lisp Scheme and the like procedural e.g. C Pascal Ada Modula and the like scripting e.g. Perl Ruby Python JavaScript VBScript and the like and declarative e.g. SQL Prolog and the like .

The embodiments described above may also use either well known or proprietary synchronous or asynchronous client server computing techniques. Also the various components may be implemented using more monolithic programming techniques for example as an executable running on a single CPU computer system or alternatively decomposed using a variety of structuring techniques known in the art including but not limited to multiprogramming multithreading client server or peer to peer running on one or more computer systems each having one or more CPUs. Some embodiments may execute concurrently and asynchronously and communicate using message passing techniques. Equivalent synchronous embodiments are also supported. Also other functions could be implemented and or performed by each component module and in different orders and by different components modules yet still achieve the described functions.

In addition programming interfaces to the data stored as part of the marketing activity support system such as in the data store can be available by standard mechanisms such as through C C C and Java APIs libraries for accessing files databases or other data repositories through scripting languages such as XML or through Web servers FTP servers or other types of servers providing access to stored data. The data store may be implemented as one or more database systems file systems or any other technique for storing such information or any combination of the above including implementations using distributed computing techniques.

Different configurations and locations of programs and data are contemplated for use with techniques of described herein. A variety of distributed computing techniques are appropriate for implementing the components of the illustrated embodiments in a distributed manner including but not limited to TCP IP sockets RPC RMI HTTP Web Services XML RPC JAX RPC SOAP and the like . Other variations are possible. Also other functionality could be provided by each component module or existing functionality could be distributed amongst the components modules in different ways yet still achieve the functions described herein.

Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the components of the marketing activity support system may be implemented or provided in other manners such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs and the like. Some or all of the system components and or data structures may also be stored as contents e.g. as executable or other machine readable software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium e.g. as a hard disk a memory a computer network or cellular wireless network or other data transmission medium or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection such as a DVD or flash memory device so as to enable or configure the computer readable medium and or one or more associated computing systems or devices to execute or otherwise use or provide the contents to perform at least some of the described techniques. Some or all of the system components and data structures may also be stored as data signals e.g. by being encoded as part of a carrier wave or included as part of an analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums which are then transmitted including across wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

The illustrated process begins at block where it transmits a marketing message that references a Web page. Transmitting the marketing message may include transmitting the message via a broadcast direct or other type of messaging service. The marketing message may reference a Web page by including a URL that identifies the Web page. In other embodiments other types of content or resources may be reference by the message including video and or audio. In some embodiments the process also modifies the Web page reference e.g. URL by including one or more tracking identifiers and or shortening the reference to comply with message size restrictions or other limits imposed by the underlying messaging service.

At block the process receives tracking information about activities of a user with respect to the Web page. The tracking information may include various details about the activities of the user such as the time date and or manner in which the user accessed the Web page. The tracking information can be obtained from a Web browser operated by the user to view the Web page the Web browser executing an activity tracker code module possibly provided by the marketing activity support system embedded in or referenced by the Web page.

At block the process generates lead intelligence information based on the tracking information and personal information about the user. Generating lead intelligence information includes aggregating the received tracking information with personal information about the user such as information provided by the user e.g. via a Web form on the Web page or information obtained from other sources e.g. directories . Generating lead intelligence information may also include aggregating information about the transmitted marketing message such as a marketing campaign associated with the message the messaging service used to transmit the message the time and date of message transmission and the like.

At block the process presents the generated lead intelligence information. Presenting the generated lead intelligence information may include scoring leads based on various attributes of the leads such as personal information company information activity information or the like. In some embodiments lead scoring may be based at least in part on user specified scoring rules that specify weights and or values to assign or add to a lead score when criteria match or do not match information about a lead.

Some embodiments perform one or more operations aspects in addition to or instead of the ones described with reference to the process of . For example in one embodiment the process includes a loop that repeatedly transmits messages and generates lead intelligence information based thereon. In other embodiments the functions are not performed serially as described but rather in parallel such as by multiple cooperating modules processes threads or the like. For example block may be performed by the message manager in response to a received instruction to transmit a message block may be performed by the activity tracker in response to the receipt of tracking information block may be performed by the lead aggregator in response to a received user request for lead intelligence information and so on.

Note also that the MASS API or similar component may provide access to or from any of the steps of the process of . For example the API may be utilized by an external code module to provide a marketing message for transmission by block . As another example the API can be utilized to provide or obtain tracking information discussed with reference to block . As a further example the API can be used to obtain the lead intelligence information generated at block .

All of the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet including U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 760 329 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR GENERATING LEAD INTELLIGENCE filed on Apr. 14 2010 and published as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0258016 on Oct. 20 2011 are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of this disclosure. For example the methods techniques and systems for generating lead intelligence information are applicable to other architectures or environments. For example user customer activities need not be tracked with respect to static Web pages as shown above but can be tracked with respect to other types of resources or content including dynamic content multimedia e.g. video audio and or online applications. In addition in some embodiments advertisements or marketing messages are obtained from third party sources. Also the methods techniques and systems discussed herein are applicable to differing languages protocols communication media optical wireless cable etc. and devices such as wireless handsets electronic organizers personal digital assistants portable email machines game machines pagers navigation devices such as GPS receivers etc. .

Table 1 below is a JavaScript software module that implements one approach to activity tracking used in an example embodiment of a marketing activity support system. The module is loaded and executed by a Web browser when the Web browser loads and or renders a Web page that is referenced as part of a marketing message as described above. The module or similar code may either be embedded in the Web page or instead loaded via other code on the Web page as described with reference to above.

In one tracking technique as shown in lines 65 121 the module causes an executing Web browser to load a small transparent image from the marketing activity support system. While loading the image an HTTP cookie is exchanged that provides the marketing activity support system with various tracking information such as tracking identifiers appended to the URL used to reference the Web page the referring Web page the page title and the like.

In another tracking technique data from a form on the Web page may be forwarded to the MASS. Form data may be forwarded in a direct or indirect manner. In an example of direct forwarding the module modifies one or more forms on the Web page to additionally submit form data directly to the marketing activity support system e.g. via the API of .

In an example of indirect forwarding of form data the illustrated code module can also be used to modify a form on the Web page to cause the form to report form data to some third party system such as a system operated by or associated with the operator of the Web site that hosts the Web page. This data can then be transmitted by that system via an API e.g. the API of to the MASS. In some embodiments the data is forwarded to the MASS in substantially real time in response to a user filling out the form. In other embodiments data may be forwarded at later times. For example in one embodiment a delivery schedule may be specified such that form data is batched up and forwarded to the MASS at regular intervals e.g. hourly daily . In other embodiments other types of triggers may be specified including that the form data be forwarded when a certain number of form entries e.g. by N distinct users have been made or a certain amount of form data has been accumulated.

