---

title: Functional electrolyte for lithium-ion batteries
abstract: Functional electrolyte solvents include compounds having at least one aromatic ring with 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents, at least one of which is a substituted or unsubstituted methoxy group, at least one of which is a tert-butyl group and at least one of which is a substituted or unsubstituted polyether or poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO) group bonded through oxygen to the aromatic ring, are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09005822&OS=09005822&RS=09005822
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 09005822
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130306
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the U.S. Department of Energy and UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

The present technology generally relates to compounds that provide intrinsic overcharge protection in lithium ion batteries electrical double layer capacitors and other electrochemical devices.

Lithium ion batteries LIB were conceived and developed in Japan by Asahi Kasei Co. and first commercialized by Sony Co. in 1991 and soon this novel energy storage technology had drawn tremendous attention from academic and industry communities alike. With many extensive research and engineering efforts conducted lithium ion batteries have become the most popular power source for portable electronic devices such as but not limited to cell phones mp3 players and laptop computers. In addition applications for use in the hybrid vehicle HEV and plug in hybrid electric vehicle PHEV are being actively investigated. However the improvements in battery performance must also be mindful of safety issues. When more energy or capacity is stored in the cell the system becomes more thermodynamically unstable. For secondary lithium ion batteries dangerous results could be triggered under certain situations such as shortage elevated temperature and overcharge.

Overcharge is a battery condition where electrical flow is forced through a cell after the capacity of the cell has been already been reached. Overcharge is one of the more common factors that could lead to serious safety issues in lithium ion batteries. The phenomenon is most likely to occur during the charging of a battery pack. Due to the manufacturing processes there will always be a weakest cell with the lowest capacity in one battery pack. During charging the weak cell will always reach its full capacity before the other cells and without triggering the voltage monitor of the charger because the voltage of the full pack is still within the normal range. But the weak cell is none the less in a state of overcharge. As a result extra electricity will build up on the surface of the electrodes instead of being stored thereby dramatically increasing the potential of the cathode. As the charging is continued the potential will go beyond the electrochemical window of the electrolyte and cause various reactions of the electrolyte. For example oxidation of the electrolyte may occur and thereby trigger other reactions. The cell may end up in a thermal runaway or even result in an explosion.

In one aspect a functional electrolyte solvent is provided which includes a compound having the formula I 

In formulas II 1 through II 4 each of R Ris independently H F Cl Br I CN NO alkyl haloalkyl phosphate polyether groups Ris H alkyl or haloalkyl group m is an integer from 1 to 20 inclusive and n is an integer from 1 to 16 inclusive.

In one aspect the functional electrolyte solvent is 1 2 methoxyethoxy methoxy 4 methoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene 1 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy 4 methoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene or a mixture thereof.

In another aspect an electrolyte is provided which includes the functional electrolyte solvent and an alkali metal salt. In some embodiments the functional electrolyte solvent is a redox active material and has a redox potential of 3 to 5 V versus Li Li. In some embodiments the concentration of the functional electrolyte solvent in the electrolyte is from 0.0005 wt and 60 wt . In some embodiments the alkali metal salt is a lithium salt. In some embodiments the alkali metal salt is Li CO B Li CO BF LiClO LiBF LiAsF LiPF LiCFSO Li CFSO2 2N Li CFSO C LiN SOCF lithium alkyl fluorophosphates or a mixture of any two or more thereof.

In one aspect the electrolyte further includes a polar aprotic solvent. In some embodiments the polar aprotic solvent is selected from ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate ethyl methyl carbonate dimethyl ether gamma butyrolactone or a mixture of any two or more thereof.

In some embodiments the alkali metal salt is other than Li CO B Li CO BF and the electrolyte further comprises about 0.001 wt to about 8 wt of an electrode stabilizing additive that is Li CO B Li CO BF or a mixture thereof. In some embodiments the electrolyte further includes an electrode stabilizing additive that is a substituted or unsubstituted spirocyclic hydrocarbon containing at least one oxygen atom and at least one alkenyl or alkynyl group.

In yet another aspect an electrochemical device is provided which includes a cathode an anode and an electrolyte which includes a functional electrolyte solvent. In some embodiment the electrochemical device is a lithium secondary battery the cathode is a lithium metal oxide cathode the anode is a carbon or lithium metal anode and the anode and cathode are separated from each other by a porous separator.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

Various embodiments are described hereinafter. It should be noted that the specific embodiments are not intended as an exhaustive description or as a limitation to the broader aspects discussed herein. One aspect described in conjunction with a particular embodiment is not necessarily limited to that embodiment and can be practiced with any other embodiment s .

As used herein about will be understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art and will vary to some extent depending upon the context in which it is used. If there are uses of the term which are not clear to persons of ordinary skill in the art given the context in which it is used about will mean up to plus or minus 10 of the particular term.

The use of the terms a an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the elements especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the embodiments and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the claims unless otherwise stated. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential.

In general substituted refers to an alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl or ether group as defined below e.g. an alkyl group in which one or more bonds to a hydrogen or carbon atom contained therein are replaced by a bond to non hydrogen or non carbon atoms. Substituted groups also include groups in which one or more bonds to a carbon s or hydrogen s atom are replaced by one or more bonds including double or triple bonds to a heteroatom. Thus a substituted group will be substituted with one or more substituents unless otherwise specified. In some embodiments a substituted group is substituted with 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituents. Examples of substituent groups include halogens i.e. F Cl Br and I hydroxyls alkoxy alkenoxy alkynoxy aryloxy aralkyloxy heterocyclyloxy and heterocyclylalkoxy groups carbonyls oxo carboxyls esters urethanes oximes hydroxylamines alkoxyamines aralkoxyamines thiols sulfides sulfoxides sulfones sulfonyls sulfonamides amines N oxides hydrazines hydrazides hydrazones azides amides ureas amidines guanidines enamines imides isocyanates isothiocyanates cyanates thiocyanates imines nitro groups nitriles i.e. CN and the like.

As used herein alkyl groups include straight chain and branched alkyl groups having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms and typically from 1 to 12 carbons or in some embodiments from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. As employed herein alkyl groups include cycloalkyl groups as defined below. Unless expressly indicated otherwise alkyl groups may be substituted or unsubstituted and if no designation is used it is assumed that the alkyl group may be either substituted or unsubstituted. Examples of straight chain alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl and n octyl groups. Examples of branched alkyl groups include but are not limited to isopropyl sec butyl t butyl neopentyl and isopentyl groups. Representative substituted alkyl groups may be substituted one or more times with for example amino thio hydroxy cyano alkoxy and or halo groups such as F Cl Br and I groups. As used herein the term haloalkyl is an alkyl group having one or more halo groups. In some embodiments haloalkyl refers to a per haloalkyl group.

Cycloalkyl groups are cyclic alkyl groups such as but not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl groups. In some embodiments the cycloalkyl group has 3 to 8 ring members whereas in other embodiments the number of ring carbon atoms range from 3 to 5 6 or 7. Unless expressly indicated otherwise cycloalkyl groups may be substituted or unsubstituted and if no designation is used it is assumed that the cycloalkyl group may be either substituted or unsubstituted. Cycloalkyl groups further include polycyclic cycloalkyl groups such as but not limited to norbornyl adamantyl bornyl camphenyl isocamphenyl and carenyl groups and fused rings such as but not limited to decalinyl and the like. Cycloalkyl groups also include rings that are substituted with straight or branched chain alkyl groups as defined above. Representative substituted cycloalkyl groups may be mono substituted or substituted more than once such as but not limited to 2 2 2 3 2 4 2 5 or 2 6 disubstituted cyclohexyl groups or mono di or tri substituted norbornyl or cycloheptyl groups which may be substituted with for example alkyl alkoxy amino thio hydroxy cyano and or halo groups.

Alkenyl groups are straight chain branched or cyclic alkyl groups having 2 to about 20 carbon atoms and further including at least one double bond. In some embodiments alkenyl groups have from 1 12 carbons or typically from 1 8 carbon atoms. Unless expressly indicated otherwise alkenyl groups may be substituted or unsubstituted and if no designation is used it is assumed that the alkenyl group may be either substituted or unsubstituted. Alkenyl groups include for instance vinyl propenyl 2 butenyl 3 butenyl isobutenyl cyclohexenyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexadienyl butadienyl pentadienyl and hexadienyl groups among others. Alkenyl groups may be substituted similarly to alkyl groups. Divalent alkenyl groups i.e. alkenyl groups with two points of attachment include but are not limited to CH CH CH C CH or C CHCH.

As used herein aryl groups are cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons that do not contain heteroatoms. Aryl groups include monocyclic bicyclic and polycyclic ring systems. Thus aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl azulenyl heptalenyl biphenylenyl indacenyl fluorenyl phenanthrenyl triphenylenyl pyrenyl naphthacenyl chrysenyl biphenyl anthracenyl indenyl indanyl pentalenyl and naphthyl groups. In some embodiments aryl groups contain 6 14 carbons and in others from 6 12 or even 6 10 carbon atoms in the ring portions of the groups. The phrase aryl groups includes groups containing fused rings such as fused aromatic aliphatic ring systems e.g. indanyl tetrahydronaphthyl and the like . Aryl groups may be either substituted and unsubstituted aryl groups and if no designation is used it is assumed that the aryl group may be either substituted or unsubstituted. Substituted aryl groups may be mono substituted or substituted more than once. For example monosubstituted aryl groups include but are not limited to 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituted phenyl or naphthyl groups which may be substituted with substituents such as those listed above.

As defined herein an aromatic group include those groups identified as aryl groups but where aryl group is used to define substituent groups on a primary structure the aromatic ring is the primary structure. Thus aromatic rings include monocyclic bicyclic and polycyclic ring systems. Aromatic rings include but are not limited to benzene rings azulene rings biphenylene rings indacene rings fluorine rings pyrene rings phenanthrene rings triphenylene rings naphthacene rings chrysene rings anthracene rings heptalene rings indene rings indane rings pentalene rings and naphthylene rings. In some embodiments aromatic rings contain 6 14 carbons and in others from 6 12 or even 6 10 carbon atoms in the ring portions. Aromatic rings may be either substituted or unsubstituted aryl groups and if no designation is used it is assumed that the aromatic ring may be either substituted or unsubstituted. Substituted aryl groups may be mono substituted or substituted more than once. For example monosubstituted aryl groups include but are not limited to 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituted phenyl or naphthyl groups which may be substituted with substituents such as those listed above.

As used herein aralkyl groups are alkyl groups as defined above in which a hydrogen or carbon bond of an alkyl group is replaced with a bond to an aryl group as defined above. In some embodiments aralkyl groups contain 7 20 carbon atoms 7 14 carbon atoms or 7 10 carbon atoms. Unless expressly indicated otherwise aralkyl groups may be substituted or unsubstituted and if no designation is used it is assumed that the aralkyl group may be either substituted or unsubstituted.

As used herein heterocyclyl groups includes non aromatic ring compounds containing 3 or more ring members of which one or more is a heteroatom such as but not limited to N O and S. In some embodiments heterocyclyl groups include 3 20 ring members whereas other such groups have 3 6 3 10 3 12 or 3 15 ring members. Heterocyclyl groups encompass unsaturated partially saturated and saturated ring systems such as for example imidazolyl imidazolinyl and imidazolidinyl groups. Unless expressly indicated otherwise heterocyclyl groups may be substituted or unsubstituted and if no designation is used it is assumed that the heterocyclyl group may be either substituted or unsubstituted. Heterocyclyl groups include but are not limited to aziridinyl azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl thiazolidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrofuranyl dioxolyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl pyrrolinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl thiazolinyl isothiazolyl thiadiazolyl oxadiazolyl piperidyl piperazinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl oxathiane dioxyl dithianyl pyranyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl triazinyl dihydropyridyl dihydrodithiinyl dihydrodithionyl homopiperazinyl quinuclidyl indolyl indolinyl isoindolyl azaindolyl pyrrolopyridyl indazolyl indolizinyl benzotriazolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzothiophenyl benzthiazolyl benzoxadiazolyl benzoxazinyl benzodithiinyl benzoxathiinyl benzothiazinyl benzoxazolyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzo 1 3 dioxolyl pyrazolopyridyl imidazopyridyl azabenzimidazolyl triazolopyridyl isoxazolopyridyl purinyl xanthinyl adeninyl guaninyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl quinolizinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl cinnolinyl phthalazinyl naphthyridinyl pteridinyl thianaphthalenyl dihydrobenzothiazinyl dihydrobenzofuranyl dihydroindolyl dihydrobenzodioxinyl tetrahydroindolyl tetrahydroindazolyl tetrahydrobenzimidazolyl tetrahydrobenzotriazolyl tetrahydropyrrolopyridyl tetrahydropyrazolopyridyl tetrahydroimidazopyridyl tetrahydrotriazolopyridyl and tetrahydroquinolinyl groups. Representative substituted heterocyclyl groups may be mono substituted or substituted more than once such as but not limited to pyridyl or morpholinyl groups which are 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituted or disubstituted with various substituents such as those listed above.

As used herein heteroaryl groups are aromatic ring compounds containing 5 or more ring members of which one or more is a heteroatom such as but not limited to N O and S. Unless expressly indicated otherwise heteroaryl groups may be substituted or unsubstituted and if no designation is used it is assumed that the heteroaryl group may be either substituted or unsubstituted. Heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to groups such as pyrrolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl pyridyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl thiophenyl benzothiophenyl furanyl benzofuranyl indolyl azaindolyl pyrrolopyridyl indazolyl benzimidazolyl imidazopyridyl azabenzimidazolyl pyrazolopyridyl triazolopyridyl benzotriazolyl benzoxazolyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl imidazopyridyl isoxazolopyridyl thianaphthalenyl purinyl xanthinyl adeninyl guaninyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl quinoxalinyl and quinazolinyl groups.

As used herein alkoxy groups are hydroxyl groups OH in which the bond to the hydrogen atom is replaced by a bond to a carbon atom of a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl group as defined above. Examples of linear alkoxy groups include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy pentoxy hexoxy and the like. Examples of branched alkoxy groups include but are not limited to isopropoxy sec butoxy tert butoxy isopentoxy isohexoxy and the like. Examples of cycloalkoxy groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyloxy cyclobutyloxy cyclopentyloxy cyclohexyloxy and the like. Representative substituted alkoxy groups may be substituted one or more times with substituents such as those listed above.

In one aspect a functional electrolyte solvent is provided. In some embodiments the functional electrolyte solvents are compounds having at least one aromatic ring with 2 3 4 or 5 substituents at least one of which is a substituted or unsubstituted methoxy group at least one of which is a tert butyl group and at least one of which is a substituted or unsubstituted polyether or poly ethylene oxide PEO group bonded through oxygen to the aromatic ring. Examples of such aromatic rings include benzene naphthalene anthracene biphenyl and the like. The tertiary carbon organic group may have the formula CRwhere each R group independently has up to 10 up to 6 up to 4 up to 2 or 1 carbon atom. Exemplary tertiary carbon organic groups may for example have up to 12 up to 10 up to 8 up to 6 5 or 4 carbon atoms. Some shuttles in this subclass may contain two or at least two tertiary carbon organic groups which may be the same or different. If located on the same aromatic ring e.g. a benzene ring the tertiary carbon organic groups may for example be oriented ortho meta or para to one another. In some embodiments the tertiary carbon organic group is a tertiary butyl group. Other substituents may be present on the shuttle aromatic ring or rings or on the tertiary carbon organic group s so long as such substituents do not unduly interfere with factors such as the shuttle s charge carrying capability oxidation potential or stability. Some exemplary embodiments do not contain readily polymerizable ring substituents e.g. allyl groups or halogen atoms. The functional electrolyte solvent may also be in the form of a salt.

In some embodiments the functional electrolyte solvents include a 1 4 di tertiary butyl compound having a 2 methoxy group and a 5 alkoxy group where the alkoxy group is other than methoxy. Such compounds are non symmetrical and provide enhanced solubility and solubilizing properties.

In formula I Ris H F Cl Br I alkyl or a polyether Ris H F Cl Br I alkyl or a polyether and Rmay be a group of formula II which is 

In formula II Ris H F Cl Br I CN NO alkyl haloalkyl phosphate or a polyether Ris H F Cl Br I CN NO alkyl haloalkyl phosphate or a polyether Ris H alkyl or haloalkyl m is an integer from 1 to 20 inclusive and n is an integer from 1 to 16 inclusive. In some embodiments Ris H F Cl Br I C Calkyl or a polyether Ris H F Cl Br I C Calkyl or a polyether Ris H F Cl Br I CN NO C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl phosphate or a polyether Ris H F Cl Br I CN NO C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl phosphate or a polyether Ris H C Calkyl or C Chaloalkyl m is an integer from 1 to 20 inclusive and n is an integer from 1 to 16 inclusive. In some embodiments Ris H F Cl methyl or ethyl Ris H F Cl methyl or ethyl Ris H F Cl methyl ethyl or a polyether Ris H F Cl methyl ethyl or a polyether Ris H methyl or ethyl m is an integer from 1 to 20 inclusive and n is an integer from 1 to 16 inclusive.

In formulas II 1 through II 4 each of R Ris independently H F Cl Br I CN NO alkyl a haloalkyl a phosphate or a polyether group Ris H alkyl or a haloalkyl group m is an integer from 1 to 20 inclusive and n is an integer from 1 to 16 inclusive. In some embodiments each of R Ris independently H F Cl Br I C Calkyl a C Chaloalkyl or a polyether group Ris H C Calkyl or a C Chaloalkyl group m is an integer from 1 to 20 inclusive and n is an integer from 1 to 16 inclusive. In some embodiments each of R Ris independently H F Cl Br I C Calkyl a C Chaloalkyl or a polyether group Ris H C Calkyl or a C Chaloalkyl group m is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 an integer from 1 to 20 inclusive and n is an integer from 1 to 16 inclusive. In some embodiments each of R Ris independently H F Cl methyl or ethyl Ris H methyl or ethyl m is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 and n is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8. In one embodiment Ris a group of formula II 2 R R R R R and Rare H Ris methyl or ethyl and m is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8.

In some embodiments the factional electrolyte solvent is 1 methoxy 4 2 methoxyethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene 1 methoxy 4 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene or a mixture thereof. In other embodiments the functional electrolyte solvent is 1 methoxy 4 2 2 2 ethoxyethoxy ethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene 1 methoxy 4 2 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene 1 methoxy 4 2 2 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethoxy ethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene 1 methoxy 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethoxy ethoxy ethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene.

The functional electrolyte solvents are typically non aqueous. As used herein non aqueous means that the water content of the electrolyte or solvent is minimal or only an adventitious amount of water is present. In some embodiments less than 20 parts per million ppm of water is present. In other embodiments less than 15 ppm of water is present. In various other embodiments less than 10 ppm or even less than 5 ppm of water is present. Substantially non aqueous electrolyte solvents also include embodiments where no water is present.

In one embodiment the functional electrolyte solvents are redox active materials and have a redox potential of about 3.5 V to about 5.0 V. In some embodiments the functional electrolytes have a redox potential of about 3.6 V to about 4.6 V. In some embodiments the functional electrolyte solvents are liquid redox active materials or redox shuttles that may not only be used as electrolyte solvents or co solvents but they may also be configured to provide overcharge protection to the devices they are included in e.g. lithium ion batteries.

In another aspect an electrolyte is provided which includes a functional electrolyte solvent and an alkali metal salt.

The functional electrolyte solvents are present in the electrolyte in concentrations suitable the concentration of the functional electrolyte solvent in the electrolyte is from 0.0005 wt and 60 wt .

In some embodiments the electrolyte further includes a polar aprotic solvent. Suitable polar aprotic solvents are known in the art and include but are not limited to ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate ethyl methyl carbonate dimethyl ether gamma butyrolactone or a mixture of any two or more thereof.

Any of the functional electrolyte solvents described above may be used in an electrochemical device having an anode negative electrode a cathode positive electrode and the electrolyte. Examples of such electrochemical devices include all kinds of primary batteries secondary batteries fuel cells biofuel cells flywheels solar cells and capacitors such as supercapacitor devices. In some embodiments the electrochemical cell is a primary cell. In some embodiments the primary cell that is a lithium MnO2 battery or Li poly carbon monofluoride battery. In some embodiments the electrochemical device is a lithium secondary battery. In some embodiments the secondary battery is a lithium battery a lithium ion battery a lithium sulfur battery a lithium air battery a sodium ion battery or a magnesium battery. In one embodiment the electrochemical device is a lithium ion battery.

A variety of salts including alkali metal salts may be employed in the electrolytes and electrochemical devices and will be known to those of skill in the art. In some embodiments e.g. in lithium ion batteries the alkali metal salt is a lithium salt. Illustrative salts are LiPF LiClO CBOLi CBOFLi LiPFCO Li CFSO N LiC SOCF Li CFSO N LiCFSO LiBXH LiBXH where X is a halogen n is an integer from 0 to 12 and n is an integer from 0 to 10 LiAlF LiBF Li FSO N LiSO NaSO NaPF NaClO LiAlOLiSCN LiBr LiI LiAsF LiB Ph LiSOCH LiS LiSe LiSR or LiSeR wherein x is an integer from 1 to 20 y is an integer from 1 to 3 and R is H alkyl alkenyl aryl ether F CF COCF SOCF or SOF.

In some embodiments the alkali metal salt is other than Li CO B Li CO BF and the electrolyte further comprises about 0.001 wt to about 8 wt of an electrode stabilizing additive that is Li CO B Li CO BF or a mixture thereof.

A variety of negative electrodes or anodes may be employed in the electrochemical devices such as lithium ion batteries. Representative negative electrodes include LiTiO the lithium alloy compositions graphitic carbons such as those having a spacing between 002 crystallographic planes d 002 of 3.45 d 002 3.354 and existing in forms such as powders flakes fibers or spheres e.g. mesocarbon microbeads and other materials that will be familiar to those skilled in the art and combinations thereof.

A variety of current collectors may be employed in the electrochemical devices such as lithium ion batteries. Often the negative and positive electrodes will be carried on the current collector with the current collector serving as a support. The current collector may also be an adjacent material e.g. a shell of a lithium ion button cell. A variety of arrangements will work so long as the negative and positive electrodes make suitable electrical contact with their associated current collector.

Some guidelines may aid in selecting the negative electrode current collector. To prevent lithium capture during recharging the negative electrode current collector has a lithium alloying potential below the negative electrode s minimum normal operating potential. Thus the negative electrode current collector selection will be guided in part by the negative electrode selection. To discourage or prevent current collector dissolution during overdischarging it may be helpful to employ a negative electrode current collector having a dissolution potential above the shuttle reduction potential. Thus the negative electrode current collector selection may also be guided in part by the shuttle selection.

Representative negative electrode current collectors include aluminum copper stainless steels e.g. 300 series and 400 series stainless steels titanium tantalum niobium INCONEL nickel chromium alloys commercially available from International Nickel Co. combinations thereof and other materials that will be familiar to those skilled in the art. Aluminum has a lithium alloying potential of about 0.3 V vs Li. Most of the other listed materials are believed to have lithium alloying potentials below 0 V. Copper is believed to have a dissolution potential below about 4.0 V. Most of the other listed materials are believed to have dissolution potentials above 4.0 V. The current collector may be monolithic throughout or may have a surface or exposed layer whose composition is different from the composition of the underlying current collector material. Aluminum appears to offer especially good performance.

When the negative electrode has a larger irreversible first cycle capacity loss than that of the positive electrode the positive electrode will normally remain at an elevated potential during overdischarge. Its current collector will be held near the same elevated potential and will not be susceptible to lithium capture during recharging or dissolution during overdischarging. Accordingly there are fewer constraints on selection of the positive electrode current collector. Representative positive electrode current collectors include aluminum stainless steels e.g. 300 series and 400 series stainless steels titanium tantalum niobium INCONEL alloys combinations thereof and other materials that will be familiar to those skilled in the art.

A variety of positive electrodes or cathodes may be employed in the electrochemical devices such as lithium ion batteries. Illustrative cathode materials include but are not limited to spinel olivine carbon coated olivine LiMnPO LiMnO LiCoPO LiCoO LiFePO LiCoO LiNiO LiNiCoMetO LiMnNiO LiMnCONiO LiMnO LiFeO LiMetMnO LiNiMnCoMet OF AB XO Nasicon vanadium oxide or mixtures of any two or more thereof wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Mn or Co Met is Mg Zn Al Ga B Zr or Ti A is Li Ag Cu Na Mn Fe Co Ni Cu or Zn B is Ti V Cr Fe or Zr X is P S Si W or Mo and 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 x 0.4 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0.4 0 z 0.4 and 0 n 3. Other cathode materials include lithium transition metal oxides as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 858 324 5 900 385 6 143 268 6 964 828 7 078 128 7 211 237 and 6 680 145 and in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0027048 2004 0121234 2004 0179993 and 2006 045144 and in combinations of any two or more such materials.

The negative or positive electrode may contain additives such as will be familiar to those skilled in the art e.g. carbon black for negative electrodes and carbon black flake graphite and the like for positive electrodes.

The negative and positive electrode capacities may optionally be selected to provide an excess negative electrode capacity. This enables the factional electrolyte solvents operating as redox active materials or redox shuttle materials as to provide overcharge protection. About 10 to about 20 excess negative electrode capacity is recommended. Lesser or greater excess negative electrode capacities may be employed if desired.

A variety of charge carrying media may be employed in the electrolyte. Exemplary media are liquids or gels capable of solubilizing sufficient quantities of the alkali metal salt and the functional electrolyte solvent so that a suitable quantity of charge can be transported from the positive electrode to negative electrode. Exemplary charge carrying media can be used over a wide temperature range e.g. from about 30 C. to about 70 C. without freezing or boiling and are stable in the electrochemical window within which the cell electrodes and shuttle operate. Representative charge carrying media include ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate ethyl methyl carbonate butylene carbonate vinylene carbonate fluoroethylene carbonate fluoropropylene carbonate butylrolactone methyl difluoroacetate ethyl difluoroacetate dimethoxyethane diglyme bis 2 methoxyethyl ether combinations thereof and other materials that will be familiar to those skilled in the art.

In addition to the functional electrolyte solvents which operate as redox active materials or redox shuttle materials a variety of additional redox chemical shuttles may be employed in electrochemical devices. The shuttle if present will have an electrochemical potential above e.g. slightly above the positive electrode s maximum normal operating potential. Thus the shuttle selection may be guided in part by the positive electrode selection. As a general numeric guide the shuttle may for example have a redox potential about 0.3 to 0.6 V above the positive electrode s maximum normal operating potential e.g. about 3.7 to about 4.7 V vs. Li Li about 3.7 to about 4.4 V vs. Li Li about 3.7 to about 4.2 V vs. Li Li or about 3.7 to about 4.0 V vs. Li Li. For example LiFePOpositive electrodes have a recharge plateau around 3.45 V vs. Li Li and exemplary shuttles for use with such electrodes may have a redox potential from about 3.75 to about 4.05 V vs. Li Li. Similarly LiMnPOand LiMnOelectrodes have a recharge plateau around 4.1 V vs. Li Li and exemplary shuttles for use with such electrodes may have a redox potential from about 4.4 to about 4.7 V vs. Li Li.

Illustrative additional redox shuttles include but are not limited to anisole substituted anisoles or methoxybenzenes such as 2 methylanisole 2 ethylanisole 2 tert butyl anisole 3 tert butyl anisole 4 tert butyl anisole 2 bromoanisole 4 bromoanisole 2 4 6 tribromoanisole 3 5 dichloroanisole 2 4 6 trichloroanisole 4 bromo 2 fluoroanisole 1 cyclopropyl 2 methoxybenzene 1 nitro 3 tert butyl 2 methoxybenzene 1 cyano 3 tert butyl 2 methoxybenzene 1 4 di tert butyl 2 methoxybenzene 5 tert butyl 1 3 dinitro 2 methoxybenzene 1 benzyloxy 4 bromo 2 methoxybenzene 1 3 5 tri tert butyl 2 methoxybenzene 1 2 ethylhexyl oxy 4 methoxybenzene 1 hexadecyloxy 4 methoxybenzene 1 ethoxycarbonyl oxy imino methyl 4 methoxybenzene and 2 tert pentyl anisole alkoxy substituted phthalates such as 4 methoxyphthalate alkoxy substituted catechols such as 3 methoxycatechol substituted di alkoxybenzenes such as 2 methyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 3 dimethyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 5 dimethyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 6 dimethyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 3 6 trimethyl 1 2 dimethoxybenzene 2 3 5 6 tetramethyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 4 methyl 1 2 dimethoxybenzene 2 3 5 6 tetramethyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 ethyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 3 diethyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 5 diethyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 6 diethyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 3 6 triethyl 1 2 dimethoxybenzene 2 3 5 6 tetraethyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 4 ethyl 1 2 dimethoxybenzene 2 5 diisopropyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 tert butyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 3 di tert butyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 5 di tert butyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 5 di tert pentyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 5 di tert butyl 3 6 dinitro 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 5 di tert butyl 3 6 di cyano 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 5 di tert butyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 2 5 di tert butyl 1 4 diethoxybenzene 2 5 dicyclohexyl 1 4 dimethoxybenzene 4 tert butyl 1 2 dimethoxybenzene 4 5 di tert butyl 1 2 dimethoxybenzene 4 5 di tert pentyl 1 2 dimethoxybenzene and 4 5 di tert butyl 1 2 diethoxybenzene substituted alkoxynaphthalenes such as 4 8 di tert butyl 1 5 dimethoxynaphthalene polycyclic compounds such as 1 3 2 4 cyclopentadien 1 ylidene 1 butenyl 4 methoxybenzene 9 10 dimethoxy 1 4 5 8 dimethano 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 octahydroanthracene and 9 10 dimethoxy 1 4 5 8 diethano 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 octahydroanthracene and salts such as 3 amino n dodecyl 4 methoxybenzene sulfonamide and 3 methoxybenzyl bromide.

In some embodiments the non aqueous electrolytes which include the functional electrolyte solvent may also include an electrode stabilizing additive to protect the electrodes from degradation. See e.g. co pending U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 968 235 and 7 748 497. Thus electrolytes can include an electrode stabilizing additive that can be reduced or polymerized on the surface of a negative electrode to form a passivation film on the surface of the negative electrode. Likewise electrolytes can include an electrode stabilizing additive that can be oxidized or polymerized on the surface of the positive electrode to form a passivation film on the surface of the positive electrode. In some embodiments electrolytes further include mixtures of the two types of electrode stabilizing additives. The additives are typically present at a concentration of about 0.001 to 8 wt .

In some embodiments an electrode stabilizing additive is a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon comprising at least one oxygen atom and at least one aryl alkenyl or alkynyl group. The passivating film formed from such electrode stabilizing additives may also be formed from a substituted aryl compound or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl compound where the additive comprises at least one oxygen atom. Alternatively a combination of two additives may be used. In some such embodiments one additive is selective for forming a passivating film on the cathode to prevent leaching of metal ions and the other additive can be selective for passivating the anode surface to prevent or lessen the reduction of metal ions at the anode.

Representative electrode stabilizing additives include 1 2 divinyl furoate 1 3 butadiene carbonate 1 vinylazetidin 2 one 1 vinylaziridin 2 one 1 vinylpiperidin 2 one 1 vinylpyrrolidin 2 one 2 4 divinyl 1 3 dioxane 2 amino 3 vinylcyclohexanone 2 amino 3 vinylcyclopropanone 2 amino 4 vinylcyclobutanone 2 amino 5 vinylcyclopentanone 2 aryloxy cyclopropanone 2 vinyl 1 2 oxazetidine 2 vinylaminocyclohexanol 2 vinylaminocyclopropanone 2 vinyloxetane 2 vinyloxy cyclopropanone 3 N vinylamino cyclohexanone 3 5 divinyl furoate 3 vinylazetidin 2 one 3 vinylaziridin 2 one 3 vinylcyclobutanone 3 vinylcyclopentanone 3 vinyloxaziridine 3 vinyloxetane 3 vinylpyrrolidin 2 one 4 4 divinyl 3 dioxolan 2 one 4 vinyltetrahydropyran 5 vinylpiperidin 3 one allylglycidyl ether butadiene monoxide butyl vinyl ether dihydropyran 3 one divinyl butyl carbonate divinyl carbonate divinyl crotonate divinyl ether divinyl ethylene carbonate divinyl ethylene silicate divinyl ethylene sulfate divinyl ethylene sulfite divinyl methoxypyrazine divinyl methylphosphate divinyl propylene carbonate ethyl phosphate methoxy o terphenyl methyl phosphate oxetan 2 yl vinylamine oxiranylvinylamine vinyl carbonate vinyl crotonate vinyl cyclopentanone vinyl ethyl 2 furoate vinyl ethylene carbonate vinyl ethylene silicate vinyl ethylene sulfate vinyl ethylene sulfite vinyl methacrylate vinyl phosphate vinyl 2 furoate vinylcylopropanone vinylethylene oxide vinyl butyrolactone or a mixture of any two or more thereof. In some embodiments the electrode stabilizing additive may be a cyclotriphosphazene that is substituted with F alkyloxy alkenyloxy aryloxy methoxy allyloxy groups or combinations thereof. For example the additive may be a divinyl methoxy trifluoro cyclotriphosphazene trivinyl difluoro methoxy cyclotriphosphazene vinyl methoxy tetrafluoro cyclotriphosphazene aryloxy tetrafluoro methoxy cyclotriphosphazene diaryloxy trifluoro methoxy cyclotriphosphazene compounds or a mixture of two or more such compounds. In some embodiments the electrode stabilizing additive is vinyl ethylene carbonate vinyl carbonate or 1 2 diphenyl ether or a mixture of any two or more such compounds.

Other representative electrode stabilizing additives may include compounds with phenyl naphthyl anthracenyl pyrrolyl oxazolyl furanyl indolyl carbazolyl imidazolyl or thiophenyl groups. For example electrode stabilizing additives may be aryloxpyrrole aryloxy ethylene sulfate aryloxy pyrazine aryloxy carbazole trivinylphosphate aryloxy ethyl 2 furoate aryloxy o terphenyl aryloxy pyridazine butyl aryloxy ether divinyl diphenyl ether tetrahydro furan 2 yl vinylamine divinyl methoxybipyridine methoxy 4 vinylbiphenyl vinyl methoxy carbazole vinyl methoxy piperidine vinyl methoxypyrazine vinyl methyl carbonate allylanisole vinyl pyridazine 1 divinylimidazole 3 vinyltetrahydrofuran divinyl furan divinyl methoxy furan divinylpyrazine vinyl methoxy imidazole vinylmethoxy pyrrole vinyltetrahydrofuran 2 4 divinyl isooxazole 3 4 divinyl 1 methylpyrrole aryloxyoxetane aryloxy phenyl carbonate aryloxy piperidine aryloxy tetrahydrofuran 2 aryl cyclopropanone 2 diaryloxy furoate 4 allylanisole aryloxy carbazole aryloxy 2 furoate aryloxy crotonate aryloxy cyclobutane aryloxy cyclopentanone aryloxy cyclopropanone aryloxy cyclolophosphazene aryloxy ethylene silicate aryloxy ethylene sulfate aryloxy ethylene sulfite aryloxy imidazole aryloxy methacrylate aryloxy phosphate aryloxy pyrrole aryloxyquinoline diaryloxycyclotriphosphazene diaryloxy ethylene carbonate diaryloxy furan diaryloxy methyl phosphate diaryloxy butyl carbonate diaryloxy crotonate diaryloxy diphenyl ether diaryloxy ethyl silicate diaryloxy ethylene silicate diaryloxy ethylene sulfate diaryloxyethylene sulfite diaryloxy phenyl carbonate diaryloxy propylene carbonate diphenyl carbonate diphenyl diaryloxy silicate diphenyl divinyl silicate diphenyl ether diphenyl silicate divinyl methoxydiphenyl ether divinyl phenyl carbonate methoxycarbazole or 2 4 dimethyl 6 hydroxy pyrimidine vinyl methoxyquinoline pyridazine vinyl pyridazine quinoline vinyl quinoline pyridine vinyl pyridine indole vinyl indole triethanolamine 1 3 dimethyl butadiene butadiene vinyl ethylene carbonate vinyl carbonate imidazole vinyl imidazole piperidine vinyl piperidine pyrimidine vinyl pyrimidine pyrazine vinyl pyrazine isoquinoline vinyl isoquinoline quinoxaline vinyl quinoxaline biphenyl 1 2 diphenyl ether 1 2 diphenylethane o terphenyl N methylpyrrole naphthalene or a mixture of any two or more such compounds.

In other embodiments electrode stabilizing additives include but are not limited to substituted or unsubstituted spirocyclic hydrocarbons containing at least one oxygen atom and at least one alkenyl or alkynyl group. For example such stabilizing additives include those having Formula III 

Representative examples of Formula III include but are not limited to 3 9 divinyl 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 2 4 8 trioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 2 4 dioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 8 trioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 dioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 dimethylene 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 dimethylene 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane or a mixture of any two or more such compounds. Furthermore mixtures of any two or more electrode stabilizing additives may also be used in the electrolytes of the present technology.

In some embodiments the electrode stabilizing additive is an anion receptor. In some embodiments the anion receptor is a Lewis acid. In other embodiments the anion receptor is a borane a boronate a borate a borole or a mixture of any two or more such compounds.

In some embodiments the anion receptors include but are not limited to tri propyl borate tris 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro propan 2 yl borate tris 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 phenyl propan 2 yl borate tris 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propan 2 yl borate triphenyl borate tris 4 fluorophenyl borate tris 2 4 difluorophenyl borate tris 2 3 5 6 tetrafluorophenyl borate tris pentafluorophenyl borate tris 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl borate tris 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl borate tris pentafluorophenyl borane or a mixture of any two or more thereof. Further suitable additives include 2 2 4 difluorophenyl 4 fluoro 1 3 2 benzodioxaborole 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 4 fluoro 1 3 2 benzodioxaborole 2 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 4 fluoro 1 3 2 benzodioxaborole 2 4 fluorophenyl tetrafluoro 1 3 2 benzodioxaborole 2 2 4 difluorophenyl tetrafluoro 1 3 2 benzodioxaborole 2 pentafluorophenyl tetrafluoro 1 3 2 benzodioxaborole 2 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl tetrafluoro 1 3 2 benzodioxaborole 2 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl tetrafluoro 1 3 2 benzodioxaborole 2 phenyl 4 4 5 5 tetra trifluoromethyl 1 3 2 benzodioxaborolane 2 3 5 difluorophenyl 4 4 5 5 tetrakis trifluoromethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 2 3 5 difluorophenyl 4 4 5 5 tetrakis trifluoromethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 2 pentafluorophenyl 4 4 5 5 tetrakis trifluoromethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane bis 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoroisopropyl phenyl boronate bis 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoroisopropyl 3 5 difluorophenylboronate bis 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoroisopropyl pentafluorophenylboronate or a mixture of any two or more such compounds.

In some embodiments each anion receptor is present at a concentration of about 0.001 to about 10 wt .

Other additives may also be used in the electrolytes and electrochemical devices. For example compounds such as but not limited to LiBXH LiBXH or a mixture of two or more of such compounds may be included in the electrolytes. In such compounds X is OH OCH F Cl Br or I n is an integer from 0 to 12 and n is an integer from 0 to 10. Such compounds may be present from about 0.001 to 15 wt . In some embodiments the compounds are present from about 0.001 to about 8 wt .

In some embodiments the electrode stabilizing additive is any of the above electrode stabilizing additives or a mixture of any two or more such additives.

In some embodiments the electrolyte is a gel electrolyte which includes the functional electrolyte solvent at least one aprotic solvent at least one lithium salt at least one crosslinking agent at least one monofunctional monomeric compound and at least one radical reaction initiator. In some embodiments the gel electrolyte may also include other electrode stabilization additives and other electrolyte additives.

Crosslinking agents and monofunctional monomeric compounds provide a physical framework or gel after crosslinking to host the liquid phase. Variation of the amount of the crosslinking agent and monofunctional monomeric compound in the gel may impact the conductivity of the gel electrolyte due to changes in viscosity. Lower viscosity gels are prepared with higher concentrations of monofunctional monomeric compounds as compared to the concentration of monofunctional monomeric compounds used for higher viscosity gels. Without being bound by theory higher viscosity gels may be expected to have lower electrochemical conductivity while lower viscosity gels may be expected to have higher electrochemical conductivity. However other electrochemical properties of the gel electrolyte or an electrochemical cell prepared with the gel electrolyte such as oxidation potential and reduction potential are not expected to be impacted.

Polymerization of crosslinking agents and monofunctional monomeric compounds are known to those of skill in the art. For example monofunctional monomeric compounds may be polymerized by thermal and photoinitiation. Representative thermal initiators include but are not limited to an azo compound a peroxide compound bismaleimide or a mixture of any two or more thereof. One example of an azo compound is azoisobutyronitrile. One example of a peroxide compound is benzoylperoxide. Representative photoinitiators include but are not limited to 1 hydroxyl phenyl ketone benzophenone 2 hydroxyl 2 methyl 1 phenyl propanone 2 hydroxyl 1 4 2 hydroxy phenyl 2 methyl 1 propanone methylbenzoylformate oxy phenyl acetic acid 2 2 oxo 2 phenyl acetoxy ethoxy ethyl ester oxy phenyl acetic 2 2 hydroxy ethoxy ethyl ester dimethoxy phenylacetophenone 2 benzyl 2 dimethylamino 1 4 4 morpholinyl phenyl 1 propanone diphenyl 2 4 6 trimethylthio phenyl phosphine oxide phosphine oxide phenyl bis 2 4 6 trimethyl benzoyl bis 2 4 cyclopentadien 1 yl bis 2 6 difluoro 3 1H pyrrol 1 yl phenyl titanium iodonium 4 methylphenyl 4 2 methylpropyl phenyl hexafluorophosphate or a mixture of two or more thereof. In some instances the photoinitiator is a UV initiator.

The present technology thus generally described will be understood more readily by reference to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the present technology.

Synthesis of 1 methoxy 4 2 methoxyethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene. Scheme 1 is an illustration of the synthesis of the title compound.

2 5 di tert butyl 4 methoxyphenol 9 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous N N dimethylformamide 10 ml . Cesium carbonate 13 mmol and 1 bromoethyl methyl ether 9 mmol were added to the solution. The reaction mixture was then stirred at room temperature overnight. After removal of the solvent the residue was partitioned between dichloromethane DCM and aqueous NaHCO 0.1 M . The organic portion was separated and dried over NaSOand then the solvent was removed under vacuum. The crude product was chromatographed silica hexanes DCM from 5 1 to 1 1 to afford pure 1 methoxy 4 2 methoxyethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene in an 85 yield. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 6.84 s 1H 6.83 s 1H 4.11 t J 4.5 Hz 2H 3.78 m 5H 3.45 s 3H 1.38 s 9H and 1.35 s 9H .

Cyclic voltammograms were recorded for a solution of 0.01M 1 methoxy 4 2 methoxyethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene in an electrolyte of 1.2M LiPFin EC EMC 3 7 by weight using a Pt Li Li three electrode system Pt working electrode Li counter electrode and Li reference electrode at various scan rates. See . One pair of reversible peaks is exhibited at about 3.8 to about 4.1 V vs. Li Li. It is well known that the main electrolyte components EC PC DMC and LiPF are electrochemically stable up to 4.8 V vs. Li Li or higher. The reversible electrochemical reaction at 3.8 V to 4.1 V vs. Li Li is therefore assigned to the reduction and oxidation peaks for the 1 methoxy 4 2 methoxyethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene.

Voltage profile overcharge test of cells using mesocarbon microbeads MCMB and LiFePO LFP as electrodes and containing 0.1 M 1 methoxy 4 2 methoxyethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene in the electrolyte of 1.2M LiPFin EC EMC 3 7 by weight were recorded over the course of about 300 hours. See . The cells were charged at C 10 rate for 20 hours and then discharged to 2.2 V. The overcharge ratio charge capacity discharge capacity discharge capacity is 100 . For each cycle after the capacity was fully charged the cell voltage climbed quickly to 3.8 V where the redox overcharge protection was activated and then the voltage was constant for the following 10 hours until discharge. The flat plateau clearly indicates that the overcharge protection was effective and extra electricity was shunted by the reversible redox behavior of the functional electrolyte.

Capacity retention profiles of overcharge test of cells using MCMB and LFP as electrodes and containing 0.1M 1 methoxy 4 2 methoxyethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene in the electrolyte of 1.2M LiPFin EC EMC 3 7 by weight were recorded. See . The charging rate was C 10 and the overcharge ratio was 100 . The difference between the charge and discharge capacity comes from the overcharge protection processes and equals the extra electricity carried by the functional electrolytes. After approximately 85 cycles the shuttle appears to degrade.

Voltage profile overcharge test of cells using mesocarbon microbeads MCMB and LFP as electrodes and containing 0.2 M 1 methoxy 4 2 methoxyethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene in an electrolyte of 1.2M LiPFin EC EMC 3 7 by weight were recorded over the course of about 300 hours See . The charging rate was C 5 and the overcharge ratio was 100 . For each cycle after the capacity was fully charged the cell voltage climbed quickly to 3.8 V where the redox overcharge protection was activated and then the voltage stayed there for the next 10 hours until discharge. The flat plateau clearly indicates that the overcharge protection was effective and extra electricity was shunted by the reversible redox behavior of the functional electrolyte.

Capacity retention profiles of overcharge test of cells using MCMB and LFP as electrodes and containing 0.2M 1 2 methoxyethoxy methoxy 4 methoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene were recorded. See . The charging rate was at C 10 and overcharge was 100 . The difference between the charge and discharge capacity comes from the overcharge protection processes and equals the extra electricity carried by the functional electrolytes. The electrolyte was observed to withstand more than 125 overcharge test cycles exhibiting excellent overcharge protection.

Synthesis of 1 methoxy 4 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene. Scheme 2 is an illustration of the synthesis of the title compound.

2 5 di tert butyl 4 methoxyphenol 9 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous N N dimethylformamide 10 ml . Cesium carbonate 13 mmol and 1 bromo 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethane 9 mmol was added to the solution. The reaction mixture was then stirred at room temperature overnight. After removal of the solvent the residue was partitioned between dichloromethane DCM and aqueous NaHCO 0.1 M . The organic portion was separated and dried over NaSOand then the solvent was removed under vacuum. The crude product was chromatographed silica hexanes DCM from 5 1 to 1 1 to provide pure 1 methoxy 4 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene in an 87 yield. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 6.83 s 1H 6.82 s 1H 4.14 t J 4.5 Hz 2H 3.89 t J 4.5 Hz 2H 3.80 s 3H 3.72 t J 4.5 Hz 2H 3.58 t J 4.5 Hz 2H 3.40 s 3H 1.38 s 9H and 1.35 s 9H . The purity was over 99.5 based GC mass spectroscopy and the molecular weight was observed at 338.3 which is consistent with the theoretical value 338.5.

Cyclic voltammograms were recorded for a solution of 0.01M 1 methoxy 4 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene in an electrolyte of 1.2M LiPF6 in EC EMC 3 7 by weight using a Pt Li Li three electrode system at various scan rates. See . The reversible electrochemical reaction at 3.8 4.1 V vs. Li Liis assigned to the redox reaction of the exemplary electrolyte solvent.

Voltage profiles overcharge test of a MCMB LFP cell containing 0.4 M 1 methoxy 4 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene in 1.2M LiPFin EC EMC 3 7 by weight were recorded over the course of 0 200 h. See . The charging rate was at C 2 and the overcharge was 100 . The electrolyte was observed to provide high rate overcharge protection at C 2 charging rate.

Capacity retention profiles of MCMB LiFePOcell containing 0.4 M 1 methoxy 4 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene in 1.2M LiPFin EC EMC 3 7 by weight were recorded. See . The charging rate was at C 2 and the overcharge was 100 . Under these condition the cells were observed to survive about 40 overcharge test cycles.

Capacity retention profiles of LFP LTO cells using an electrolyte of 2 1 1 2M LiPFin EC EMC 3 7 by weight to 1 methoxy 4 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene by weight were recorded. See . The cells were cycled at room temperature from 1.5 V to 2.1V at C 10 rate. Despite the degradation of the capacity the cycle performance clearly indicated that 1 methoxy 4 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy 2 5 di tert butyl benzene can be used as co solvent in the electrolyte system.

While certain embodiments have been illustrated and described it should be understood that changes and modifications can be made therein in accordance with ordinary skill in the art without departing from the technology in its broader aspects as defined in the following claims.

The embodiments illustratively described herein may suitably be practiced in the absence of any element or elements limitation or limitations not specifically disclosed herein. Thus for example the terms comprising including containing etc. shall be read expansively and without limitation. Additionally the terms and expressions employed herein have been used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof but it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the claimed technology. Additionally the phrase consisting essentially of will be understood to include those elements specifically recited and those additional elements that do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristics of the claimed technology. The phrase consisting of excludes any element not specified.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and compositions within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods reagents compounds compositions or biological systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes particularly in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member.

All publications patent applications issued patents and other documents referred to in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication patent application issued patent or other document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety. Definitions that are contained in text incorporated by reference are excluded to the extent that they contradict definitions in this disclosure.

