---

title: Method of executing application installed in outside server and image forming apparatus to perform the same
abstract: A method of executing an application installed in an outside server at an image forming apparatus includes receiving, at the image forming apparatus, an input of an install uniform resource locator (URL), accessing, by the image forming apparatus, the outside server through the install URL and receiving from the outside server metadata of the application installed in the outside server, verifying a reliability of the received metadata, creating an icon corresponding to the application on a user interface of the image forming apparatus when the reliability is verified, and executing the application installed in the outside server at the image forming apparatus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635197&OS=09635197&RS=09635197
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
number: 09635197
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20130906
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 and 120 from Korean Patent Application No. 10 2012 0139262 filed on Dec. 3 2012 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 61 731 572 filed on Nov. 30 2012 in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

The present general inventive concept relates to a method of executing in an image forming apparatus an application installed in an outside server.

There are two major ways of supporting an open platform in a multifunction printer MFP . The first way is a method of installing a whole application in the MFP. The second way is a method of installing the application in a separate outside server and showing only a user interface UI of the application on the MFP instead. According to this second way when a user controls the application through the UI shown on the MFP the MFP communicates with the outside server where the application has been installed and operates the application.

In the second way usually the MFP shows the UI of the application to the user through a web browser and the application installed in the outside server gives a command to the MFP by calling from the outside an open application programming interface API of the MFP. In this method the MFP has to be able to recognize the application installed in the outside server. Conventionally the user had to input metadata of the application directly into the MFP which caused inconvenience. Moreover if there was a firewall between the MFP and the outside server in order for the application installed in the outside server to give a command to the MFP the MFP had to support a JavaScript API.

The present general inventive concept provides a method of recognizing in an image forming apparatus an application that is installed in an outside server and executing the application in the image forming apparatus.

Additional features and utilities of the present general inventive concept will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the general inventive concept.

Exemplary embodiments of the present general inventive concept provide a method of using in an image forming apparatus an application installed in an outside server the method including receiving at the image forming apparatus an input of an install uniform resource locator URL accessing by the image forming apparatus the outside server through the install URL and receiving from the outside server metadata of the application installed in the outside server verifying a reliability of the received metadata creating an icon corresponding to the application on a user interface of the image forming apparatus when the reliability is verified and executing in the image forming apparatus the application installed in the outside server.

The reliability of the metadata may be verified by using a signature included in the metadata a certificate of the outside server and a public key stored in the image forming apparatus to thus decide whether or not the application was produced by a qualified producer.

Here when executing the application the metadata may include a home URL through which the image forming apparatus accesses the outside server. The using of the application may include selecting the created icon accessing by the image forming apparatus the outside server through the home URL receiving at the image forming apparatus an application operation startup page from the outside server and displaying the received startup page on the user interface of the image forming apparatus.

The metadata may include a reverse URL through which the image forming apparatus transmits an operation command request to the outside server. The executing of the application may include transmitting from the image forming apparatus an operation command request to the outside server through the reverse URL receiving at the image forming apparatus the operation command transmitted from the outside server in response to the operation command request and performing an operation according to the received operation command.

The metadata may comprise an event URL through which the image forming apparatus transmits to the outside server an event that occurs in the image forming apparatus. The executing of the application may include recognizing the event that occurs in the image forming apparatus and transmitting the recognized event to the outside server through the event URL.

The creating of the icon may include creating on the user interface the icon that is included in the metadata.

A non transitory computer readable recording medium may contain computer readable codes as a program to execute the method.

Exemplary embodiments of the present general inventive concept also provide an image forming apparatus including a communication interface to communicate with an outside server where an application is installed a user interface to receive a user input a controlling unit to enable the image forming apparatus to perform an image forming operation by using the application installed in the outside server and an image forming operation execution unit to execute the image forming operation under the control of the controlling unit wherein the controlling unit includes an application installation manager wherein once the image forming apparatus accesses the outside server through an install uniform resource locator URL received at the user interface the application installation manager receives application metadata from the outside server verifies a reliability of the received metadata and after completing the reliability verification and creates on the user interface an icon corresponding to the application.

The application installation manager may verify the reliability of the metadata by using a signature included in the metadata a certificate of the outside server and a public key stored in the image forming apparatus to thus decide whether or not the application was produced by a qualified application producer.

Here when executing the application the metadata may include a home URL through which the image forming apparatus accesses the outside server. The controlling unit may receive the icon selection input from the user interface control the image forming apparatus to access the outside server through the home URL receives an operation startup page of the application from the outside server and controls the user interface unit to display the received startup page.

The metadata may include a reverse URL through which the image forming apparatus transmits an operation command request to the outside server. The controlling unit may further include an operation command manager. The operation command manager may enable the image forming apparatus to transmit an operation command request to the outside server through the reverse URL receive the operation command transmitted from the outside server in response to the operation command request and control the image forming operation execution unit that performs the image forming operation to execute an image forming operation following the received operation command.

The metadata may include an event URL through which the image forming apparatus transmits to the outside server an event that occurs in the image forming apparatus. The controlling unit may further include an event manager. The event manager may recognize the event that occurred in the image forming apparatus and transmit the recognized event to the outside server through the event URL.

Exemplary embodiments of the present general inventive concept also provide a method of executing in an image forming apparatus an application installed in an outside server the method including inputting into the image forming apparatus an install uniform resource locator URL corresponding to the outside server controlling the image forming apparatus to access the outside server via the install URL and to receive from the outside server metadata of the application creating at the image forming apparatus a user interface corresponding to the application and executing the application in the image forming apparatus via the user interface.

The method may further include controlling the image forming apparatus to request data from the outside server and receiving data from the outside server in response to the request.

Prior to controlling the image forming apparatus to access the outside server via the install URL the metadata of the application may be only stored in the outside server.

Exemplary embodiments of the present general inventive concept also provide an image forming apparatus including a user interface unit to receive a user input of an install uniform resource locator URL corresponding to an outside server where an application is installed a communication interface unit to access the outside server through the install URL and receive from the outside server metadata of the application and a control unit to create a user interface corresponding to the application at the user interface unit and to execute the application in the image forming apparatus via the user interface.

Exemplary embodiments of the present general inventive concept also provide an image forming apparatus including a user interface unit to communicate with an outside server and a control unit to store a URL to access the outside server using the stored URL to receive data from the outside server to create an icon in a user interface according to the received data and to perform an image forming operation through the icon.

Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present general inventive concept examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below in order to explain the present general inventive concept while referring to the figures. In order to provide a clearer description of the exemplary embodiments what is already generally known among those skilled in the art will be omitted.

The communication interface unit enables the image forming apparatus to communicate with an outside server illustrated in . The image forming apparatus may communicate with the outside server and recognize an application that is installed in the outside server . Since the image forming apparatus transmits receives information to and from the outside server respectively by communicating with the outside server a user may operate and use the application installed in the outside server through the user interface unit of the image forming apparatus . Here the application installed in the outside server is what is used to execute an image forming operation. For instance there is a scan to e mail operation that sends a scanned document via e mail.

The control unit performs a series of controlling operations that enable the image forming apparatus to recognize the application installed in the outside server and the user to use the application installed in the outside server through the user interface unit . The control unit includes the operation command manager the event manager and the application installation manager which play a role of transmitting an operation command request and receiving an operation command recognizing and transmitting an event recognizing the application etc. respectively. A detailed description of each operation will be provided in the following descriptions referring to below.

The user interface unit may receive a user input. The user interface unit may be for example a web browser displayed on the user interface for example a display unit of the image forming apparatus . The image forming operation execution unit may execute the image forming operation under the control of the control unit .

The following description is a method of executing at the image forming apparatus the application installed in the outside server according to an exemplary embodiment of the present general inventive concept with reference to .

Once having received the install URL the application installation manager of the image forming apparatus accesses the outside server through the given install URL in operation S and receives metadata of the application from the outside server in operation S.

Here the metadata of the application means data that is needed to recognize the application. The metadata includes an application identity an icon a home URL environment setting information etc. The application identity means information such as the application s name and version. The icon means an icon that is displayed on the user interface of the image forming apparatus and that is used to execute the application. The home URL means a network address that is needed in order to access a startup page shown on the user interface of the image forming apparatus when starting the application. The environment setting information means setting information to execute the application in the image forming apparatus .

Conventionally when an image forming apparatus recognizes an application installed in an outsider server a user had to directly input metadata of the application to the image forming apparatus. Then the image forming apparatus recognized the application installed in the outside server based on the metadata that had been input by the user and created an icon on a user interface such as a display unit of the image forming apparatus the icon having been included in the metadata as an icon corresponding to the application. This conventional method of directly inputting the metadata in the image forming apparatus by the user took a long time if there were multiple image forming apparatuses that were going to use the application and was also inconvenient because the user had to input the metadata every time when there was a change in the application.

However according to an exemplary embodiment of the present general inventive concept the only thing the user has to do is input the install URL to the user interface unit of the image forming apparatus . By doing this the image forming apparatus receives the application s metadata from the outside server and easily recognizes the application.

Meanwhile according to an exemplary embodiment of the present general inventive concept the metadata of the application may further include a reverse URL and an event URL in addition to the application identity the icon the home URL and the environment setting information mentioned above. The reverse URL is a network address to transmit an operation command request from the image forming apparatus to the application installed in the outside server . Also the event URL is a network address to transmit to the outside server an event when the event occurs and was recognized in the image forming apparatus . More detailed description about the reverse URL and the event URL will be further provided with reference to below.

Referring back to after receiving the metadata from the outside server the application installation manager of the image forming apparatus verifies reliability of the received metadata in operation S. The image forming apparatus may verify reliability of the metadata by using a signature included in the metadata a certificate of the outside server and a public key included in the image forming apparatus .

For the purposes of this exemplary embodiment of the general inventive concept verifying the reliability of the metadata means confirming that the application installed in the outside server was produced by a qualified application developing company. If the signature is included in the whole application the whole application has to be downloaded and be verified of reliability by the image forming apparatus . In this case a security problem may occur due to a source code exposure and a network traffic problem may also occur if the application s volume is heavy. Therefore according to an exemplary embodiment of the present general inventive concept the signature is made to be included only in the metadata not in the whole application thus solving the problem above.

After verifying the reliability of the metadata in operation S the application installation manager of the image forming apparatus creates on the user interface unit of the image forming apparatus such as on a web browser an icon that corresponds to the application installed in the outside server . In this case the created icon may be an icon that was included in the received metadata of operation S. The user selects the icon on the user interface unit in order to execute the application installed in the outside server and may control the application through the user interface unit .

Meanwhile the home URL may be in a form that includes the install URL. For instance if the install URL which is an IP address of the outside server is 211.244.110.000 the home URL may be 211.244.110.000 Home . As such since the home URL is in a form that includes the install URL even if the install URL the IP address of the outside server changes the home URL may alter accordingly and automatically.

The reason why the image forming apparatus transmits the operation command request to the outside server through the reverse URL and receives the operation command in response to the request is as follows.

If the image forming apparatus is connected to a local network not illustrated such as an intranet while the application is installed in the outside server that is connected to an external network not illustrated such as a cloud and a firewall not illustrated may exist between the image forming apparatus and the outside server . In this situation the firewall will block the command if the command is directly given from the application installed in the outside server to the image forming apparatus . Therefore in order to avoid the blocking problem the image forming apparatus must provide a JavaScript application programming interface API which makes the application developing company take the burden of having to learn not only a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP based API but also the JavaScript API.

In order to solve the problem above according to an exemplary embodiment of the present general inventive concept the image forming apparatus first accesses the outside server and transmits the operation command request through the reverse URL. Even if there is a firewall the outside server can transmit the response to the request after receiving the request from the image forming apparatus . Therefore when the outside server receives the operation command request the outside server does not immediately transmit a response but waits until the operation command occurs. When the operation command occurs then the outside server transmits the operation command to the image forming apparatus .

Meanwhile the reverse URL may be in a form that includes the install URL. For instance if the install URL which is an IP address of the outside server is 211.244.110.000 the reverse URL may be 211.244.110.000 reverse . As such since the reverse URL is in a form that includes the install URL even if the install URL the IP address of the outside server changes the reverse URL may alter accordingly and automatically.

If there is not a firewall between the image forming apparatus and the outside server the outside server may directly access the image forming apparatus and monitor the event that occurs in the image forming apparatus . Yet it is impossible to do so if there is a firewall. However as shown in the above exemplary embodiment of the present general inventive concept if the image forming apparatus recognizes the event occurrence and transmits the recognized event to the outside server the operation is possible regardless of whether there is a firewall or not.

Meanwhile the event URL may be in a form that includes the install URL. For instance if the install URL which is an IP address of the outside server is 211.244.110.000 the event URL may be 211.244.110.000 Event . As such since the event URL is in a form that includes the install URL even if the install URL the IP address of the outside server changes the event URL may alter accordingly and automatically.

Referring to when the image forming apparatus receives the input of the install URL from the user on the web browser in operation S the image forming apparatus accesses the outside server through the received install URL in operation S. Next the image forming apparatus receives from the outside server the metadata of the application installed in the outside server in operation S. In order to check if the application installed in the outside server was produced by a qualified application developing company in operation S the image forming apparatus verifies reliability of the metadata by using the signature included in the metadata the certificate of the outside server and the public key stored in the all in one printer. In this exemplary embodiment of the present general inventive concept the signature that is used in reliability verification is to be included only in the metadata thus making the reliability verification possible by receiving only the metadata from the outside server .

If the reliability of the metadata is not verified operation S No the process ends without executing the application.

If the reliability of the metadata is verified operation S Yes the icon that corresponds to the application installed in the outside server is created on the user interface unit of the image forming apparatus in operation S. After the application is recognized in the image forming apparatus and the corresponding icon is completely created the user now may execute in the image forming apparatus the application installed in the outside server in operation S.

Meanwhile the home URL may be in a form that includes the install URL. For instance if the install URL which is an IP address of the outside server is 211.244.110.000 the home URL may be 211.244.110.000 Home . As such since the home URL is in a form that includes the install URL even if the install URL the IP address of the outside server changes the home URL may alter accordingly and automatically.

As such the image forming apparatus first transmits the operation command request to the outside server through the reverse URL. Then the outside server receives the operation command request and waits until the operation command occurs. When the operation command occurs the outside server transmits the operation command to the image forming apparatus in response to the received operation command request. This way it is possible to transmit the operation command even if there is a firewall between the image forming apparatus and the outside server .

Meanwhile the reverse URL may be in a form that includes the install URL. For instance if the install URL which is an IP address of the outside server is 211.244.110.000 the reverse URL may be 211.244.110.000 Reverse . As such since the reverse URL is in a form that includes the install URL even if the install URL the IP address of the outside server changes the reverse URL may alter accordingly and automatically.

If there is not a firewall between the image forming apparatus and the outside server the outside server may directly access the image forming apparatus and monitor the events that occur in the image forming apparatus . Yet it is impossible to do so if there is the firewall. However as shown in the above exemplary embodiment of the present general inventive concept if the image forming apparatus recognizes the event occurrence and transmits the occurred event to the outside server the operation is possible no matter where there is the firewall or not.

Meanwhile the event URL may be in a form that includes the install URL. For instance if the install URL which is an IP address of the outside server is 211.244.110.000 the event URL may be 211.244.110.000 Event . As such since the home URL is in a form that includes the install URL even if the install URL the IP address of the outside server changes the event URL may alter accordingly and automatically.

According to the exemplary embodiment above the image forming apparatus has the merit of enabling the image forming apparatus to recognize the application installed in the outside server simply by inputting the install URL.

In addition in a process of recognizing the application the image forming apparatus quickly and easily verifies the application s reliability by receiving the metadata of the application and using the signature included in the metadata and the certificate of the outside server .

Furthermore even if there is the firewall between the image forming apparatus and the outside server the image forming apparatus is able to remotely control the application by transmitting to the outside server the operation command request and the occurred event respectively through the reverse URL and event URL that are included in the application s metadata received from the outside server .

The present general inventive concept can also be embodied as computer readable codes on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium can include a computer readable recording medium and a computer readable transmission medium. The computer readable recording medium is any data storage device that can store data as a program which can be thereafter read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable recording medium include a semiconductor memory a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a USB memory a memory card a Blu Ray disc CD ROMs magnetic tapes floppy disks and optical data storage devices. The computer readable recording medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. The computer readable transmission medium can transmit carrier waves or signals e.g. wired or wireless data transmission through the Internet . Also functional programs codes and code segments to accomplish the present general inventive concept can be easily construed by programmers skilled in the art to which the present general inventive concept pertains.

According to the description above the image forming apparatus has the merit of enabling the image forming apparatus to recognize the application installed in the outside server simply by inputting the install URL.

In addition in a process of recognizing the application the image forming apparatus quickly and easily verifies the application s credibility by receiving the metadata of the application and using the signature included in the metadata and the certificate of the outside server.

Furthermore even if there is the firewall between the image forming apparatus and the outside server the image forming apparatus is able to remotely control the application by transmitting to the outside server the operation command request and the occurred event respectively through the reverse URL and event URL that are included in the application s metadata received from the outside server.

Although a few embodiments of the present general inventive concept have been shown and described it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made in these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the general inventive concept the scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

