---

title: Equipment for insertion of objects into smoking articles
abstract: An apparatus is disclosed for providing rods formed from a continuous supply of filter material for use in the manufacture of cigarette filter elements, each rod having individual objects placed at predetermined spaced intervals along the length thereof. The apparatus comprises a first hopper configured to provide a reservoir for objects, a second hopper positioned to receive objects from the first hopper, and a reciprocating screen disposed between the first hopper and the second hopper. The reciprocating screen defines a plurality of passageways therein, and the reciprocating screen is configured to facilitate transfer of the objects from the first hopper to the second hopper. The apparatus also comprises an object insertion unit in operable communication with the second hopper and configured to introduce a plurality of objects into engagement with the continuous supply of filter material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398777&OS=09398777&RS=09398777
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 09398777
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130620
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 309 101 filed Dec. 1 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 329 794 filed Dec. 8 2008 which is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 234 834 filed Sep. 23 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 479 098 the entireties of all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to apparatus and methods for manufacturing smoking articles and components of smoking articles such as filter elements. In particular the present invention relates to apparatus for inserting objects into a filter component for use in the manufacture of a filter element for a smoking article such as a cigarette.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments and one of those segments can comprise activated charcoal particles. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter end of the cigarette.

The sensory attributes of cigarette smoke can be enhanced by applying additives to tobacco and or by otherwise incorporating flavoring materials into various components of a cigarette. See Leffingwell et al. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . For example one type of tobacco flavoring additive is menthol. See Borschke 19 p. 47 70 1993. Various proposed methods for modifying the sensory attributes of cigarettes have involved suggestion that filter elements may be used as vehicles for adding flavor to the mainstream smoke of those cigarettes. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. proposes the placement of adsorbent and flavor releasing materials in a cigarette filter. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2002 0020420 to Xue et al. proposes the placement of fibers containing small particle size adsorbents absorbents in the filter. U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 486 to Dube et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. propose the placement of a flavor containing pellet in a cigarette filter. Other representative types of cigarette filters incorporating flavoring agents are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 972 335 to Tiggelbeck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 082 098 to Owens Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Byrne U.S. Pat. No. 4 729 391 to Woods et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al.

Cigarettes having adjustable filter elements that allow smokers to select the level of flavor that is available for transfer into mainstream smoke have been proposed. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 677 995 to Kallianos et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 848 375 to Patron et al. Some proposed cigarettes may be manipulated reportedly for the purpose of providing components of their filter elements with the propensity to modify the nature or character of mainstream smoke. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 297 038 to Homburger U.S. Pat. No. 3 339 557 to Karalus U.S. Pat. No. 3 420 242 to Boukar U.S. Pat. No. 3 508 558 to Seyburn U.S. Pat. No. 3 513 859 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 596 665 to Kindgard U.S. Pat. No. 3 669 128 to Cohen and U.S. Pat. No. 4 126 141 to Grossman.

Some proposed cigarettes have hollow objects positioned in their filter elements and the contents of those objects reportedly are released into the filter elements upon rupture of those objects in the attempt to alter the nature or character of the mainstream smoke passing through those filter elements. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 339 558 to Waterbury U.S. Pat. No. 3 366 121 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 390 686 to Irby Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 428 049 to Leake U.S. Pat. No. 3 547 130 to Harlow et al U.S. Pat. No. 3 575 1809 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 602 231 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 625 228 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 635 226 to Horsewell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 685 521 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 916 914 to Brooks et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 991 773 to Walker and U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 144 to Tateno et al. US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al and 2005 0070409 to Deal and PCT WO 03 009711 to Kim. Some proposed cigarettes have capsules positioned in their filter elements and the contents of those capsules reportedly are released into the filter elements upon rupture of those capsules in order to deodorize the filter element after the cigarette is extinguished. See for example US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2003 0098033 to MacAdam et al.

Commercially marketed Rivage brand cigarettes have included a filter possessing a cylindrical plastic container containing water or a liquid flavor solution. Cigarettes representative of the Rivage brand cigarettes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 865 056 to Tamaoki et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 331 981 to Tamaoki et al. both of which are assigned to Japan Tobacco Inc. The cylindrical casing within the filter reportedly may be deformed upon the application of external force and a thin wall portion of the casing is consequently broken so as to permit release of the liquid within the casing into an adjacent portion of that filter.

A cigarette holder has been available under the brand name Aquafilter. Cigarette holders representative of the Aquafilter brand product are described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 797 644 to Shaw U.S. Pat. No. 4 003 387 to Goldstein and U.S. Pat. No. 4 046 153 to Kaye assigned to Aquafilter Corporation. Those patents propose a disposable cigarette holder into which the mouth end of a cigarette is inserted. Smoke from the cigarette that is drawn through the holder reportedly passes through filter material impregnated with water. A disposable filter adapted to be attachable to the mouth end of a cigarette has been proposed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 724 997 to Smith et al. Flavor containing capsules contained within the disposable filter reportedly may be squeezed in order to release the flavor within those capsules.

Some smokers might desire a cigarette that is capable of selectively providing a variety of different flavors depending upon the smoker s immediate desire. The flavor of such a cigarette might be selected based on the smoker s desire for a particular flavor at that time or a desire to change flavors during the smoking experience. For example changing flavors during the smoking experience may enable a smoker to end the cigarette with a breath freshening flavor such as menthol or spearmint. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of providing distinctive different pleasurable sensory experiences at the discretion of a smoker.

Some smokers might also desire a cigarette that is capable of selectively releasing a deodorizing agent upon completion of a smoking experience. Such agents may be used to ensure that the remaining portion of a smoked cigarette yields a pleasant aroma after the smoker has finished smoking that cigarette. Accordingly it is desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of releasing a deodorizing agent particularly at the discretion of the smoker.

Some smokers might desire a cigarette that is capable of selectively moistening cooling or otherwise modifying the nature or character of the mainstream smoke generated by that cigarette. Because certain agents that can be used to interact with smoke are volatile and have the propensity to evaporate over time the effects of those agents upon the behavior of those cigarettes may require introduction of those agents near commencement of the smoking experience. Accordingly is desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of selectively moistening smoothing or cooling the smoke delivered to a smoker at the discretion of that smoker.

It would be highly desirable to provide a smoker with the ability to enhance his her smoking experience such as can be accomplished by allowing the smoker to purposefully select certain characteristics or behaviors that the cigarette exhibits. That is it would be desirable to provide a cigarette possessing components that can be employed so as to allow the smoker to alter in a controlled way the nature or character of the mainstream smoke produced by that cigarette. In particular it would be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of selectively releasing an agent for enhancing the sensory attributes of the mainstream smoke e.g. by flavoring that smoke . More particularly it would be desirable to provide the means to manufacture such cigarettes incorporating such selectively releasable flavor agents and the like in a rapid highly automated fashion. It also would be desirable to provide improved means to incorporate smoke altering solid objects such as flavor pellets exchange resin beads and adsorbent absorbent particles into cigarette filters in a rapid highly automated fashion.

The present invention relates to an apparatus and process for providing filter rods for use in the manufacture of smoking articles and each rod has objects e.g. rupturable capsules individually spaced at predetermined intervals along its length. The apparatus incorporates equipment for supplying a continuous supply of filter material e.g. a filter tow processing unit adapted to supply filter tow to a continuous rod forming unit . A representative apparatus also includes an upper hopper that acts as a reservoir for a plurality of objects and provides for supply of objects to a lower hopper. Passage of objects from the upper hopper to the lower hopper is promoted by vibrating the objects contained in the upper hopper as well as by employing a movable screening mechanism e.g. a reciprocating bar possessing vertically extending passageways for object transport . The lower hopper is shaped so that objects are stacked therein. The objects in the lower hopper are stacked on top of one another but at a depth when viewed looking toward the hopper of a single layer of objects. The bottom of the lower hopper is shaped so as to cooperate with a portion of upper region of a rotating wheel that is positioned so as to rotate in a vertical plane and the objects are fed from the lower hopper onto the peripheral face of that rotating wheel. That is objects within the lower hopper are aligned in a single line along a portion of the peripheral face in the upper region of the rotating wheel.

The peripheral face of the rotating wheel incorporates a plurality of spaced pockets each pocket being of sufficient shape and size to accommodate one object. Individual objects are placed into individual pockets located at pre determined intervals on the peripheral face of the rotating wheel. Vacuum applied to each pocket acts to assist in ensuring that each pocket accepts an object and that each object within a pocket is maintained in that pocket during transport. Each object then is positioned at predetermined intervals within a continuous supply of filter material. Air pressure applied to each pocket acts to blow that object out of the pocket at the desired time e.g. when the object carried by the rotating wheel is located at the desired location within the continuous supply of filter material. Then the filter material is formed into a continuous rod having individual objects positioned at predetermined spaced intervals within that rod. The continuous rod then is subdivided at predetermined intervals so as to form a plurality of filter rods e.g. four up filter rods containing four spaced objects .

The production of filter rods filter rod segments and filter elements and the manufacture of cigarettes from those filter rods filter rod segments and filter elements can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that have been employed to provide cigarette filters multi segment cigarette filters and filtered cigarettes. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany. Other representative types of commercially available filter rod making equipment that can suitably modified for use include the KDF 2 unit available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG and the Decoufle unit available from Decoufle of France.

Cigarettes made by the apparatus of the present invention are manufactured using filter elements provided from filter rods. Six up filter rods four up filter rods and two up filter rods that are conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al. For example a four up filter rod is subdivided into four cylindrical shaped filter elements as shown in . Descriptions of representative types of four up filter rods having spaced objects nested in embedded in or surrounded by cellulose acetate filter tow are set forth in US Pat. Applic. Pub. No. 2005 0070409 A1 to Deal and U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Rod sizes for use in the manufacture of filter elements for cigarettes can vary but typically range in length from about 80 mm to about 140 mm and from about 16 mm to about 27 mm in circumference. For example a typical rod having a 100 mm length and a 24.53 mm circumference exhibits a pressure drop of from about 200 mm to about 400 mm of water as determined at an airflow rate of 17.5 cc sec. using an encapsulated pressure drop tester sold commercially as Model No. FTS 300 by Filtrona Corporation Richmond Va.

Representative types of filter rods incorporating objects and representative types of cigarettes possessing filter elements incorporating objects such as flavor containing capsules can possess the types of components format and configuration and can be manufactured using the types of techniques and equipment set forth in US Pat. Applic. Pub. Nos. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and 2005 0070409 A1 to Deal which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Cigarettes made by the apparatus of the present invention also can be manufactured using filter elements provided from filter rods that are produced using the types of techniques and equipment described hereinafter with reference to through and .

Referring to filter rods incorporating spaced objects shown in such as spherical objects can be manufactured using a rod making apparatus . An exemplary rod making apparatus includes a rod forming unit e.g. a KDF 2 unit available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG and an object insertion unit suitably adapted to provide for placement of spherical objects not shown at predetermined intervals within a continuous length of filter material . The continuous length or web of filter material is supplied from a source not shown such as a storage bale bobbin or the like. Generally the filter material is processed using a filter material processing unit . The continuous length of filter material which has objects incorporated therein at predetermined spaced intervals is passed through the rod forming unit thereby forming a continuous rod which can be subdivided using a rod cutting assembly into a plurality of rods . The succession or plurality of rods are collected for use in collection means which is a tray a rotary collection drum conveying system or the like. If desired the rods can be transported directly to a cigarette making machine. In such a manner in excess of 500 rods each of about 100 mm length can be manufactured per minute.

The filter material can vary and can be any material of the type that can be employed for providing a tobacco smoke filter for cigarettes. Preferably a traditional cigarette filter material is used such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Especially preferred is filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate polyolefins such as polypropylene or the like. One highly preferred filter material that can provide a suitable filter rod is cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 35 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 8 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. For further examples see the types of filter materials set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 424 172 to Neurath U.S. Pat. No. 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al.

Filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate is processed using a conventional filter tow processing unit such as a commercially available E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other types of commercially available tow processing equipment as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may similarly be used. Normally a plasticizer such as triacetin is applied to the filamentary tow in traditional amounts using known techniques. Other suitable materials for construction of the filter element will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette filter design and manufacture.

The continuous length of filter material is pulled through a block by the action of the rod forming unit and the individual objects not shown are inserted at predetermined intervals within the web of filter material. The filter material is further directed into a gathering region of the rod forming unit . The gathering region can have a tongue and horn configuration a gathering funnel configuration stuffer or transport jet configuration or other suitable type of gathering means. The tongue provides for further gathering compaction conversion or formation of the cylindrical composite from block into an essentially cylindrical i.e. rod like shape whereby the continuously extending stands or filaments of the filter material extend essentially along the longitudinal axis of the cylinder so formed.

The filter material which has been compressed into a cylindrical composite is received further into the rod forming unit . The cylindrical composite is fed into wrapping mechanism which includes endless garniture conveyer belt or other garniture means. The garniture conveyer belt is continuously and longitudinally advanced using advancing mechanism such as a ribbon wheel or cooperating drum so as to transport the cylindrical composite through wrapping mechanism . The wrapping mechanism provides a strip of wrapping material e.g. non porous paper plug wrap to the outer surface of the cylindrical composite in order to produce continuous wrapped rod .

The strip or web of wrapping material is provided from rotatable bobbin . The wrapping material is drawn from the bobbin is trained over a series of guide rollers passes under block and enters the wrapping mechanism of the rod forming unit. The endless garniture conveyer belt transports both the strip of wrapping material and the cylindrical composite in a longitudinally extending manner through the wrapping mechanism while draping or enveloping the wrapping material about the cylindrical composite.

The seam formed by an overlapping marginal portion of wrapping material has adhesive e.g. hot melt adhesive applied thereto at applicator region in order that the wrapping material can form a tubular container for the filter material. Alternatively the hot melt adhesive may be applied directly upstream of the wrapping material s entry into the garniture of the wrapping mechanism or block as the case may be. The adhesive can be cooled using chill bar in order to cause rapid setting of the adhesive. It is understood that various other sealing means and other types of adhesives can be employed in providing the continuous wrapped rod.

The continuous wrapped rod passes from the sealing means and is subdivided e.g. severed at regular intervals at the desired predetermined length using cutting assembly which includes as a rotary cutter a highly sharpened knife or other suitable rod cutting or subdividing means. It is particularly desirable that the cutting assembly not flatten or otherwise adversely affect the shape of the rod. The rate at which the cutting assembly severs the continuous rod at the desired points is controlled via an adjustable mechanical gear train not shown or other suitable means. The rate at which the objects are inserted into the continuous web of filter material is in a direct relationship to the speed of operation of rod making machine. The object insertion unit can be geared in a direct drive relationship to the drive assembly of the rod making apparatus. Alternatively the object insertion unit can have a direct drive motor synchronized with the drive assembly of the rod forming unit and feedback controlled by coupling with the object inspection means to adjust the insertion unit drive assembly should the object insertion location shift out of position.

The insertion unit includes a rotatable member having the shape of a wheel which most preferably held in place within a ledger housing . The rotating wheel is positioned so as to rotate in a vertical plane. The insertion unit also includes a hopper assembly and or other transfer means for feeding or otherwise providing transfer of objects to insertion wheel . The insertion wheel can be driven by a pulley and belt coupled with the main drive assembly of the rod making apparatus . Alternatively the wheel can have an independent drive motor synchronized with or controlled by the main drive assembly not shown of the rod forming unit . Alternatively the insertion wheel can be driven using independent drives that are servo controlled for synchronization. In a preferred embodiment the servo system includes a drive and control system available as Indramat EcoDrive 03 FGP 03VRS operated using a motor available as Indramat MKD025B 144 KPO KN from Mannesmann Rexroth Corp. Charlotte N.C. The insertion wheel rotates in a clock wise fashion. As the insertion wheel rotates each object not shown held within each spaced pocket not shown on the peripheral face of the wheel is brought into contact with the filter material within the block where each object then is ejected from the pocket into the gathered filter material .

A typical control system includes control hardware and software. An exemplary control system can incorporate a Siemens 315 2DP Processor a Siemens FM352 5 Booleen Processor and a 16 input bit 16 output bit module. Such a system can utilize a system display such as a Siemens MP370. A typical rod making unit possesses internal controls whereby for a rod of desired length the speed of the knife of the severing unit is timed relative to the speed of continuous rod formation. A first encoder by way of connection with the drive belt of the rod making unit and with the control unit of the insertion unit provides reference of the knife position of the cutting assembly relative to the wheel position of the insertion unit. Thus the first encoder provides a means for allowing control of the speed of rotation of the wheel of the insertion unit relative to the speed at which continuous web of filter tow passes through the rod making unit. An exemplary first encoder is available as Heidenhain Absolute 2048.

An inspection detection system is located near the cutting assembly. The detection system such as an infrared detection system relays information regarding the detection of an object within the filter rod to the control system . Typically the objects within the filter rod are of a contrasting shade or color to be detected by visual detection sensors in the detection system .

Referring to a preferred inspection detection head system includes a frame for containment and support of relevant components and attachment to the appropriate position on the rod making apparatus not shown . The system also includes a sensor component that can include a one pair of fiber optic heads and or an optional second pair of fiber optic heads . An exemplary inspection detection system includes a primary photo electric sensor a Keyence amplifier FS V21RP with fiber optics PIR1X66U and Fiber FU 42TZ. An optional secondary representative sensor Banner Engineering amplifier D10DNFPQ with fiber optics FU 42TZ may be used. The system incorporates a sensor window region that includes for example a high tempered glass insert and O rings to provide isolation of the fiber optic heads from the continuous filter rod not shown that passes through opening . The diameter of the opening typically is sufficient to allow the continuous filter rod not shown to pass readily therethrough. The paired fiber optic heads and and and are appropriately connected to a pair of amplifiers inclusive at positions and and inclusively. Portions of those cables are shown as cut away.

Referring to another alternative design for a detection head system also includes a frame supporting a sensor component that includes a signal sending component and a receiver component . A representative sensor component is a laser signal type sending receiving unit available as Keyence LV H110. The system incorporates a sensor region that allows the continuous filter rod not shown to pass through opening . The sending component and receiver component each are suitably connected at ports of an amplifier such as Keyence LV 51MP using cables respectively. Portions of cables are shown as cut away.

Referring again to a second encoder provides reference of the knife position of the severing unit relative to each rod that is cut from the continuous rod and hence the information regarding the location of each rod is relayed to the Siemens FM352 5 Booleen Processor of the control system . The information provided also provides information so that the location of cut of the continuous filter rod can be timed to the location of objects within the rod. The FM352 5 receives the signals with respect to the positioning of the objects. The signal is supplied via measurement head of the inspection detection system . The FM352 5 operating software compares the received signals and compares the location to the preset desired locations and undesirable locations and if errors are detected individual filters are rejected at a defined delay down stream. When the absence or mislocation of an object in the filter rod is detected a signal is sent from the Siemens FM352 5 Booleen Processor by way of the aforementioned Siemens 315 2DP Processor to the rejection unit of the filter rod making machine e.g. a traditional blow out port of a conventional filter drum . Hence the various filter rods so provided e.g. four up filter rods have the appropriate number of objects e.g. four objects appropriately positioned within those rods. As such the rate of supply of web of filter material and the rate of rotation of the wheel of the object insertion unit can be controlled such that the objects are consistently at the desired predetermined intervals within the filter material of collected filter rods .

The rod making apparatus optionally can be equipped with a system adapted to provide information associated with filter rod production and operation event analysis. For example a rod making apparatus such as a commercially available KDF 2 type of unit can be adapted so as to be equipped with a central processing unit. A representative central processing unit is available as a Siemens 314 C processor. The central processing unit is equipped with input and output modules. As such the operation of the rod making unit can be monitored and data so generated can be transferred to the central processing unit. In addition data received by the central processing unit can be presented on a video touch screen or retrieved by a high level operating system e.g. via an Ethernet . Remote unit such as Siemens IM 153 equipped with inputs outputs and a counter module available as Siemens FM350 2 installed in sending unit collects data provided to the central processing unit using a bus system e.g. Profibus . Depending upon information gathered data that can be generated may relate to number of filter rods manufactured during a particular time frame machine operating speed manufacturing efficiency number of stops filters sent to a making machine and stoppage reasons.

Referring to the insertion unit includes a frame that supports a hopper assembly . The frame also is used to attach and secure the insertion unit to the chassis or frame of the rod making unit not shown . That hopper assembly possesses an upper hopper or reservoir having an inner region for containing and transferring objects not shown . The overall shape of that hopper can vary and the number of objects that the hopper can hold can vary. The manner by which the hopper is loaded with objects can vary. For example the hopper can be filled using tubular feed and an air transport system using a conveyor system manually by pouring objects from a container or the like.

The upper hopper generally has the overall function of a funnel whereby a relatively large number of objects are received aligned in a controlled manner and supplied to a downstream location in a controlled manner. Preferably the upper hopper has a general wedge shape whereby the upper region of that hopper that is adapted to contain and permit passage of objects has a relatively great cross sectional area and the lower region of that hopper is adapted to contain objects so that those objects are arranged in a vertical plane approaching a single layer of objects in thickness i.e. a plurality of objects are contained in the bottom region of upper hopper so as to be aligned in a single line or as a single layer . For example for objects having diameters of about 3.5 mm the width of the lower region of the upper hopper can be about 4 mm.

The front panel not shown of the upper hopper can be provided by a sheet of material positioned so as to form the front wall of the upper hopper assembly and hence can provide for containment of the objects with the hopper in the desired manner. The front panel can be manufactured from a flat sheet of clear polycarbonate or polymethylmethacrylate in order that the movement of objects through the hopper assembly can be visually observed during operation of the rod making unit. The hopper also possesses a back wall left side wall and right side wall . The front panel also can be secured to the hopper assembly using bolts clamps or other suitable connection means in order that the front panel can be readily removed from the hopper assembly for servicing cleaning and the like.

The upper hopper optionally though preferably can be equipped with a vibrating unit or other means for ensuring free flow of objects through the hopper. Preferably the vibrating unit may be located on the back wall of the hopper or anywhere else such as the right side wall as shown. A representative vibrating unit is available as SYNTRON Magnetic Vibrator Serial GPVB00216 from FMC Technologies Corporation Philadelphia Pa. As such gravity feed of the objects is enhanced and there is avoided or prevented blockage of the hopper to a desirable flow of objects. As such there is provided a reliable and consistent feed of objects into the bottom region of the upper hopper. The vibrating unit preferably is positioned on the outside of the upper hopper near the central region of the back panel . The vibration that is provided to the upper hopper and hence to the plurality of objects within that hopper is sufficient to minimize or prevent blockage of objects in the hopper and hence promote free flow of objects to locations further downstream in the rod manufacturing process. The operation of such a vibrating unit can be constant or intermittent. Preferably the operation of the vibrating unit is suitably connected and programmed to commence and continue operation during operation of the object insertion unit of the filter rod making unit.

The hopper assembly also includes a lower hopper . Objects not shown are fed from the upper hopper to the lower hopper . The front panel not shown of the lower hopper can be provided by a sheet of material positioned so as to form the front wall of the lower hopper assembly and hence can provide for containment of the objects with the hopper in the desired manner. The front panel can be manufactured from clear polycarbonate or polymethylmethacrylate in order that the movement of objects through the hopper assembly can be visually observed during operation of the rod making unit. The lower hopper also possesses a back wall left side wall and right side wall . The front panel also can be secured to the hopper assembly using bolts clamps or other suitable connection means in order that the front panel can be readily removed from the hopper assembly for servicing cleaning and the like.

A reciprocating bar is positioned between the upper hopper and the lower hopper and provides for controlled feed of objects into from the upper hopper to the lower hopper. The reciprocating bar provides a type of screening means that facilitates transfer of objects at a desired rate from the upper hopper into the lower hopper. The reciprocating bar is moved back and forth from left to right in order to urge objects not shown from the bottom region of the upper hopper to drop into the lower hopper . The objects not shown pass from the upper hopper into the lower hopper through passageways e.g. a plurality of vertical passageways in the reciprocating bar. In a highly preferred embodiment using spherical objects as the objects to be inserted the only manner that the objects pass from the upper hopper to the lower hopper is through passageways in the reciprocating bar. An exemplary reciprocating bar operates at a stroke of about 5 mm. The reciprocating bar is operated using a plunger arm and the frequency of reciprocation is controlled by an air valve not shown . A lower level detector and an upper level detector in the lower hopper each sense the levels of objects in that hopper. Representative photoelectric detector components for each of those detectors are available as Keyence amplifier FS V21RP and Fiber Optic FU 42TZ.

It is desirable to maintain a minimum number of objects in the lower hopper during operation and hence when the level of objects falls below the region controlled by the lower level detector the plunger arm is activated via the air valve so as to operate at a high frequency. It is desirable to maintain a maximum number of objects in the lower hopper during operation in order to enhance the ability of the objects to move freely for further transport through the filter rod making unit and hence when the level of objects rises above the region controlled by the upper level detector the plunger arm is activated via the air valve so as to operate at a lower frequency or may be turned off. Typical frequencies range from about 0.5 Hz to about 2 Hz.

The object insertion unit includes a rotatable wheel having a series of pockets positioned at predetermined intervals along the periphery thereof. The pockets that are positioned along the peripheral face of the wheel preferably are located at equally spaced intervals. The diameter of the wheel and the number of pockets present in the peripheral face of the wheel generally are dependent upon factors such as the speed of rotation of the wheel and the desired spacing of the individual objects within the continuous filter rod. For example a wheel of about 108 mm diameter can have 32 pockets the centers of which are equally spaced from one another. As another example a wheel of about 158 mm diameter can have 16 pockets the centers of which are equally spaced from one another. The wheel is manufactured from aluminum from pre tempered cold rolled steel or other suitable material.

The width of wheel can be determined by factors such as the circumference of the continuous rod that is manufactured and the diameter of the objects. Generally the width of the wheel is the width of the peripheral face of the wheel. Of particular interest is a wheel having a width of about 6 mm to about 6.5 mm. A wheel with such a width can conveniently be used for the manufacturing of rods having a circumference of about 25 mm. The width of each pocket is less than the width of the peripheral face of the wheel and typically is determined by the diameter of the object such as a capsule that enters the pocket i.e. the width of the pocket is greater than the diameters of the object and the object seat .

The lower hopper is open on its bottom and the bottom of the lower hopper is shaped so as to cooperate with a portion of upper region of a rotating wheel that is positioned so as to rotate in a vertical plane. That is the front plate not shown and the back panel which define the front and back walls of the lower hopper as well as the left wall and the right wall are adapted so as to fit over a portion of the peripheral face of the rotating wheel. Each pocket in the peripheral face of the wheel is of sufficient shape and size to accommodate one object such as shown in Deal U.S. Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2005 0070409 A1. The open bottom of the lower hopper typically can extend over about 5 percent to about 30 percent often about 8 to about 20 and frequently about 10 to about 15 percent of the periphery of the wheel . The spacing between the rotating wheel and the bottom region of the lower hopper is such that the wheel can rotate freely while objects within the hopper are urged against the peripheral face of the wheel and hence are allowed to become positioned in the pockets of that wheel. Thus the lower or feed hopper receives objects from the upper hopper and positions those objects along a portion of the periphery of the insertion wheel . The objects within the bottom region of the lower hopper preferably are in a direct contact with the peripheral face of the insertion wheel and ride over that surface. Thus the objects are feed from the lower hopper in a single line e.g. about 15 to about 20 objects aligned end to end extending along the peripheral face of a rotating wheel. That is the line of objects defined by the stack of objects at a depth of one layer is aligned with a portion of the peripheral face of the rotating wheel. With vacuum assistance applied to the insertion wheel pockets each pocket grabs an object as the pocket rotates inside the open bottom of the feed hopper . The stack of objects not shown of single layer thickness such depth determined by looking inwards into the unit can empty one object into each pocket on the rotating wheel . For example for a situation in which capsules of about 3.5 mm diameter are employed the front and back walls are aligned such that the inner faces of each of those walls are parallel or nearly parallel to one another and those inner walls can be spaced about 4 mm from one another.

Each individual object not shown remains well positioned in each respective pocket of the rotating wheel until the insertion of the object into the web of filter material not shown is desired. Near the bottom region of the wheel the ledger housing does not cover the wheel as a rim and the object then is inserted into the web of filter material with the assistance of air ejection resulting from airflow provided through the bearing housing . The pressurized air flow is received from a source not shown such as a laboratory air supply or other suitable means. In such a manner the action of gravity and pressurized air flow force the object from the pocket into the web of filter material. In particular the rim like nature of the ledger housing and plow relative to each pocket and the relative close spacing of the inner surface of the ledger housing and plow relative to the outer face of the wheel in combination with the supply of vacuum on each pocket e.g. for sucking the object into the pocket in order that the object can be secured within the pocket for transport and a blast of airflow e.g. for blowing or air ejecting the object from the pocket allows each individual object to be maintained within the respective pocket preferably without moving from or wobbling within the pocket until each object is efficiently and effectively deposited within the moving web of filter material. Other techniques for assuring removal of each object from each pocket at the desired location e.g. the use of mechanical or pneumatic plungers may be apparent to the skilled artisan.

A preferred insertion unit includes a servo unit coupled with a suitable gear reducer e.g. having a 10 1 gear reduction ratio . A right angle gear e.g. having a gear ratio of 1 1 provides rotary motion to the wheel via a timing pulley or other suitable mechanical means. Once the drive of the servo unit is given the drive enable signal the objects are inserted into the continuous web at a speed governed by the cutting head speed. That is the servo unit receives information from the processing unit not shown and advances or retards the rotating wheel by speeding up or slowing down that wheel in order to maintain the desired relationship between the positions of the pockets on the peripheral face of the wheel with the position of the knife of the severing unit not shown . As a result the positioning of the objects within each pocket the rate of rotation of the wheel and subsequent positioning of the objects within the resulting filter rod are synchronized with respect to the rate at which the filter material is fed into the rod forming unit.

Referring to the reciprocating bar is manufactured from aluminum or other suitable material. The reciprocating bar possesses a plurality of passageways extending vertically through the bar. A representative reciprocating bar is generally rectangular in cross sectional shape and has a length of about 150 mm a height of 6 mm and a width of about 8 mm. Such a representative reciprocating bar can possess 18 passageways equally spaced each of about 4 mm in diameter and such a reciprocating bar can be used to maintain a continuous supply of objects of about 3.5 mm diameter in the lower hopper.

Referring to the continuous web of filter material is fed into guide or block shown as partially cut away . The block receives the wide band of filter material and gradually forms the web into a composite which generally resembles a cylindrical composite. The plow region of the ledger housing separates or spreads the filter material such that the object is positioned or placed from a pocket in the peripheral face of the wheel at the desired location within the web of filter material. When the tow reaches the endmost portion of the plow the motion of the tow acts to close itself into a cylindrical composite which encloses surrounds or contains each individual object at the desired location within the continuous web. A suitable plow preferably extends to a maximum depth of about 6 mm to about 6.5 mm into the web of filter material. The insertion unit can be raised or lowered in order that the object is inserted at the desired depth within the filter material. In such a manner a series of objects is positioned in the web of filter material at predetermined intervals within the cylindrical composite that exits the block and enters the tongue or other suitable gathering means.

Referring to the guide or block the top portion of which is shown as partially cut away has a relatively wide opening at one end in order that the filter material can be fed therein. A suitable wide opening is about 12 mm high and about 65 mm in width. A suitable block has a length of about 130 mm to about 140 mm. The shape of the hollow inner portion of the block is such that the filter material is formed into a composite which more generally resembles a cylinder. A suitable composite is about 10 mm to about 15 mm in diameter. In particular the inner portion of the block is a hollow region or cavity in order that the filter material can be passed therethrough. The block has a longitudinally extending slot along the top portion thereof in order to allow the rotating wheel and ledger housing not shown to extend into the web of filter material and to insert an object at the desired location therein. A suitable slot is about 90 mm to about 110 mm long for a block having a length of about 130 mm to about 140 mm. In a suitable situation the plow not shown extends into the slot so as to extend about 0.3 mm to about 0.4 mm from the extreme bottom portion of the hollow inner portion of the block. The resulting cylindrical composite is received to further downstream processing regions of the rod forming unit. Similar types of blocks are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al.

Referring now to the rotatable wheel and associated components are depicted in an exploded perspective view. Suitable components of such a type of assembly are set forth in US Pat. Applic. Pub. No. 2005 0070409 A1 to Deal. The insertion wheel includes a series of pockets spaced around the peripheral face of the wheel. The pockets are holes drilled through the wheel extending all the way through and in communication with the center opening of the wheel. Within each pocket an object seat is positioned near the radial end of the pocket. The object seat is generally a hollow ribbed structure that provides a seat or cradle to retain the object as the wheel rotates.

The insertion wheel is mounted onto a mounting flange of the drive shaft . A set of bolts through the outboard surface of the insertion wheel retains the wheel against the mounting flange. The drive shaft is inserted through a set of ball bearings and separated by a bushing and retained by traditional methods within the bearing housing . The bearing housing includes a vacuum port not shown in communication with a vacuum channel that is cut into the outside peripheral surface of the hub . A positive air supply port not shown in the bottom peripheral face of the hub of the bearing housing is channeled through to the bearing housing hub and as the wheel rotates air flows from the port on the hub through each successive channel at a single point on the wheel. That point corresponds to the location where a pocket is positioned to insert into the filter material and as such an object carried in a pocket is blown from that pocket when the appropriate peripherally extending air channel within the wheel is properly aligned in airflow communication with the air supply port on the bottom periphery of the hub. The insertion wheel fits down over the bearing housing hub so that the inside surface of the insertion wheel can rotate around the hub with the insertion wheel pockets riding over the vacuum channel . The drive shaft is centered inside the bearing housing so that it retains the insertion wheel concentrically about the bearing housing hub to maintain a small air gap between the hub and the inside surface and hence no undesirable contact between those parts. In this manner a vacuum seal is provided between the bearing housing and the insertion wheel without the need for bearings bushings or other contacting seals between the two parts. Bolt holes are provided around the perimeter of the bearing housing to allow for adjustable mounting of the bearing housing to a support bracket not shown on the rod making apparatus.

Referring to a back view of the bearing housing described previously with reference to is shown. Vacuum port is in communication with a vacuum channel via a passage not shown drilled out from the backside of the bearing housing. The vacuum can be supplied by a normal laboratory vacuum system and an appropriate hose not shown connected to that port or other suitable means. The vacuum supply is used to apply a vacuum to the various pockets on the peripheral face of the rotatable wheel not shown in order that an individual object not shown can be sucked into and secured in place within an individual pocket. Also a positive air supply port is in communication with a drilled out air supply passage located in the peripheral face of the hub . The air supply can be supplied by a normal laboratory pressurized air supply system and an appropriate hose not shown connected to that port or other suitable means. The air supply through air supply passage is such that residual objects or other residual material is cleaned from each pocket in the peripheral face of the wheel not shown after the object should have been released from the pocket and inserted into the filter tow not shown . Also a positive air supply port is in communication with a drilled out air supply passage not shown located in the bottom peripheral face of the hub . The air supply through air supply passage is such that an individual object is forced from each pocket on the peripheral face of the wheel not shown by a blast of air from in that passage and through an individual peripherally extending air passageway of the wheel. As such as the wheel possessing a pocket carrying an object rotates to a low position that region of the wheel is positioned within the moving filter tow. The vacuum e.g. negative air supply applied to that pocket is blocked and air supply e.g. positive air supply from air supply passage passes through the air passageway extending to that pocket as a result of the alignment of passage of air from the port not shown located on the bottom peripheral face of the hub. The resulting burst of air through that passageway forces the object from the pocket and into the filter tow.

Preferred types of objects and the dimensions thereof are set forth below. The object can vary. The object typically possesses a generally spherical shape and most preferably is highly spherical in nature. The object can be generally solid in nature. The object can be composed of a plastic material and can be for example a solid spherical bead composed of a mixture of polyethylene and flavor or a spherical bead having the form of exchange resin or gel. The object can be composed of an inorganic material and can be for example a spherical alumina bead. The object also can have the form of a spherical bead composed of a carbonaceous material. The object also can have the form of a hollow sphere. Typical hollow objects are liquid containing objects such as breakable capsules which are highly spherical are uniform in size and weight have surface properties that allow the objects to be processed efficiently and effectively using automated filter making equipment and are highly uniform in composition. Typical objects have diameters of about 3 mm to about 4 mm preferably about 3.5 mm and the components of the preferred filter rod making equipment of the present invention is suitably adapted or designed to efficiently and effectively produce filter rods incorporating those types of objects. Preferred hollow objects have sufficient physical integrity to not rupture during conditions of handling experienced during transport to from and within the hopper assembly .

Other types of objects beads capsules and capsule components that can be employed for the production of filter rods using the foregoing filter rod manufacturing techniques and equipment are of the type set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 685 521 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 916 914 to Brooks et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 144 to Tateno et al. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2003 0098033 to MacAdam et al. and 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 03 009711 to Kim which are incorporated herein by reference.

Referring to filter rod generally can be further subdivided into cylindrical shaped filter elements using techniques as are known by the skilled artisan familiar with conventional cigarette manufacturing and as described above. The filter rod includes filter material encased in circumscribing wrapping material such as conventional air permeable or air impermeable paper plug wrap or other suitable wrapping material. As an example four objects and are individually spaced at predetermined intervals within the rod . In particular each of the objects is positioned along the rod in a spaced apart relationship from one another. As shown by lines and respectively the rod can be used as a four up rod to provide four filter elements by cutting the rod along the indicated lines and . Other configurations such as the so called six up rods also can be manufactured. Rod sizes for use in the manufacture of filter elements for cigarettes can vary but typically range in length from about 80 mm to about 140 mm and from about 16 mm to about 27 mm in circumference. For example a typical rod having a 100 mm length and a 24.53 mm circumference exhibits a pressure drop of from about 200 mm to about 400 mm of water as determined at an airflow rate of 17.5 cc sec. using an encapsulated pressure drop tester sold commercially as Model No. FTS 300 by Filtrona Corporation.

Referring to there is shown a smoking article such as a cigarette possessing certain representative components of a smoking article. The cigarette includes a generally cylindrical rod of a charge or roll of smokable filler material contained in a circumscribing wrapping material . The rod is conventionally referred to as a tobacco rod. The ends of the tobacco rod are open to expose the smokable filler material. The cigarette is shown as having one optional band e.g. a printed coating including a film forming agent such as starch ethylcellulose or sodium alginate applied to the wrapping material and that band circumscribes the cigarette rod in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. That is the band provides a cross directional region relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The band can be printed on the inner surface of the wrapping material i.e. facing the smokable filler material as shown or less preferably on the outer surface of the wrapping material. Although the cigarette can possess a wrapping material having one optional band the cigarette also can possess wrapping material having further optional spaced bands numbering two three or more.

The wrapping material of the tobacco rod can have a wide range of compositions and properties. The selection of a particular wrapping material will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. Tobacco rods can have one layer of wrapping material or tobacco rods can have more than one layer of circumscribing wrapping material such as is the case for the so called double wrap tobacco rods. Exemplary types of wrapping materials wrapping material components and treated wrapping materials are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2004 0129281 to Hancock et al. and 2005 0039764 to Barnes et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 2004 057986 to Hancock et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 2004 047572 to Ashcraft et al. which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

At one end of the tobacco rod is the lighting end and at the other end is positioned a filter element . The filter element positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod such that the filter element and tobacco rod are axially aligned in an end to end relationship preferably abutting one another. Filter element may have a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof may be essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod. The ends of the filter element permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough. The filter element includes filter material e.g. cellulose acetate tow impregnated with triacetin plasticizer that is over wrapped along the longitudinally extending surface thereof with circumscribing plug wrap material . That is the filter element is circumscribed along its outer circumference or longitudinal periphery by a layer of plug wrap and each end is open to expose the filter material .

Within the filter element is positioned at least one object . The number of objects within each filter element most preferably is a pre determined number and that number can be 1 2 3 or more. Most preferably each filter element contains a single object. Preferably the object is disposed within the filter material of the filter element particularly towards the central region of the filter element. Most preferably the nature of the filter material is such that the object is secured or lodged in place within the filter element . Each object may be hollow such as a breakable capsule that may carry a payload incorporating a compound that is intended to introduce some change to the nature or character of mainstream smoke drawn through that filter element e.g. a flavoring agent . That is the shell of hollow object may be ruptured at the discretion of the smoker to release the object payload. Alternatively the object may be a solid porous material with a high surface area capable of altering the smoke and or air drawn through the filter element. The object may be a solid material such as a polyethylene bead acting as a substrate or matrix support for a flavoring agent. Highly preferred objects are capable of releasing the agent at the command of the user. For example a preferred breakable hollow object containing a liquid payload is resistant to the release of the payload until the time that the smoker applies a purposeful application of physical force sufficient to rupture the hollow object. Typically a filter material such as cellulose acetate tow is generally absorbent of liquid materials of the type that comprise the payload and hence the released payload components are capable of undergoing wicking or otherwise experiencing movement or transfer throughout the filter element.

The filter element is attached to the tobacco rod using tipping material e.g. essentially air impermeable tipping paper that circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod . The inner surface of the tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive and hence the filter element and the tobacco rod are connected to one another.

The tipping material connecting the filter element to the tobacco rod can have indicia not shown printed thereon. For example a band on the filter end of a cigarette not shown can visually indicate to a smoker the general location or position of the object within the filter element . These indicia may help the smoker to locate the object so that it can be more easily ruptured by squeezing the filter element directly outside the position of the object. The indicia on the tipping material may also indicate the nature of the payload carried by the object. For example the indicia may indicate that the particular payload is a spearmint flavoring by having a particular color shape or design. If desired the inner surface i.e. the surface facing the plug wrap of the tipping material can be coated with a material that can act to retard the propensity of ruptured object contents from migration wicking or bleeding from the filter material into the tipping material and hence causing what might be perceived as unsightly visible staining of the tipping material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture .

A ventilated or air diluted smoking article can be provided with an optional air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material and plug wrap. The optional perforations can be made by various techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as laser perforation techniques. As these techniques are carried out after insertion of an object into the filter element care is taken to avoid damaging the objects during the formation of the perforations . One way to avoid damage from air dilution techniques such as those employing laser perforation technologies involves locating the perforations at a position adjacent to the position of the object . In such a manner radiation heat or physical forces acting upon the filter element during perforation processes do not have such a great propensity to damage the object. Alternatively so called off line air dilution techniques can be used e.g. through the use of porous paper plug wrap and pre perforated tipping paper . The perforated region can be positioned upstream of the object as shown or the perforated region can be positioned downstream of the object i.e. towards the extreme mouth end of the filter element .

The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap Plug Wrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 65 M9 95 M9 150 M4 260 M4 and 260 M4T. Preferred plug wrap materials are non porous in nature. Non porous plug wraps exhibit porosities of less than about 10 CORESTA units and preferably less than about 5 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available as Ref. No. 646 Grade from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic Trierendberg Holding . Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the filter material with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA 20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

The use of non porous plug wrap materials is desirable in order to avoid the contents of ruptured objects within filter elements from causing what might be perceived as unsightly visible staining of the tipping material . For example highly non porous plug wrap materials can act to retard or block the propensity of liquid contents of the ruptured object from migration wicking or bleeding from the filter material into the tipping material.

Tobacco materials useful for carrying out the present invention can vary. Tobacco materials can be derived from various types of tobacco such as flue cured tobacco burley tobacco Oriental tobacco or Maryland tobacco dark tobacco dark fired tobacco and Rustica tobaccos as well as other rare or specialty tobaccos or blends thereof. Descriptions of various types of tobaccos growing practices harvesting practices and curing practices are set for in Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . Most preferably the tobaccos are those that have been appropriately cured and aged.

Typically tobacco materials for cigarette manufacture are used in a so called blended form. For example certain popular tobacco blends commonly referred to as American blends comprise mixtures of flue cured tobacco burley tobacco and Oriental tobacco. Such blends in many cases contain tobacco materials that have a processed form such as processed tobacco stems e.g. cut rolled or cut puffed stems volume expanded tobacco e.g. puffed tobacco such as dry ice expanded tobacco DIET preferably in cut filler form . Tobacco materials also can have the form of reconstituted tobaccos e.g. reconstituted tobaccos manufactured using paper making type or cast sheet type processes . The precise amount of each type of tobacco within a tobacco blend used for the manufacture of a particular cigarette brand varies from brand to brand. See for example Voges Ed. p. 44 45 1984 Browne 3Ed. p. 43 1990 and Davis et al. Eds. p. 346 1999 . Other representative tobacco types and types of tobacco blends also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 836 224 to Lawson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 924 888 to Perfetti et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 056 537 to Brown et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2002 0000235 to Shafer et al. 2004 0084056 to Lawson et al. 2004 0255965 to Perfetti et al and 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. and 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. PCT Application Pub. No. WO 02 37990 and Bombick et al. 39 p. 11 17 1997 .

Tobacco materials typically are used in forms and in manners that are traditional for the manufacture of smoking articles such as cigarettes. The tobacco normally is used in cut filler form e.g. shreds or strands of tobacco filler cut into widths of about 1 10 inch to about 1 60 inch preferably about 1 20 inch to about 1 35 inch and in lengths of about inch to about 3 inches . The amount of tobacco filler normally used within the tobacco rod of a cigarette ranges from about 0.6 g to about 1 g. The tobacco filler normally is employed so as to fill the tobacco rod at a packing density of about 100 mg cmto about 300 mg cm and often about 150 mg cmto about 275 mg cm.

If desired the tobacco materials of the tobacco rod can further include other components. Other components include casing materials e.g. sugars glycerin cocoa and licorice and top dressing materials e.g. flavoring materials such as menthol . The selection of particular casing and top dressing components is dependent upon factors such as the sensory characteristics that are desired and the selection of those components will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. See Gutcho Noyes Data Corp. 1972 and Leffingwell et al. 1972 .

The dimensions of a representative cigarette can vary. Preferred cigarettes are rod shaped and can have diameters of about 7.5 mm e.g. circumferences of about 22.5 mm to about 25 mm and can have total lengths of about 80 mm to about 100 mm. The length of the filter element can vary. Typical filter elements can have lengths of about 20 mm to about 40 mm. In one preferred embodiment the length of the filter element is about 27 mm and the length of the tobacco rod is about 56 mm to about 57 mm. In another embodiment the length of the filter element is about 31 mm and the length of the tobacco rod is about 67 mm to about 68 mm. The tipping paper can circumscribe the entire filter element and about 4 mm of the length of the tobacco rod in the region adjacent to the filter element. A representative object which can have a diameter of about 3 mm to about 4 mm can be positioned in the central region of the filter element.

The filter element typically contains a predetermined number of objects at a predetermined position within the element. For example the filter element preferably contains one spherical object having a diameter of at least about 1 mm typically at least about 2 mm and often at least about 3 mm. Typically the objects have diameters that do not exceed about 6 mm often do not exceed about 5 mm and frequently do not exceed about 4.5 mm. Certain preferred objects have diameters in the range of about 3 mm to about 4 mm in diameter and certain highly preferred objects are approximately 3.5 mm in diameter. Preferably the object is positioned in the center third of the filter element more preferably at the middle of the filter element. For a cigarette having a diameter of about 7 mm to about 8 mm a typical cellulose acetate tow filter material can readily accept and maintain in the desired position within the filter element a single object having a diameter of about 3.5 mm.

Preferred cigarettes made according to the method of the present invention exhibit desirable resistance to draw whether or not the hollow objects within their filter elements are broken. For example an exemplary cigarette exhibits a pressure drop of between about 50 mm and about 200 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Preferred cigarettes exhibit pressure drop values of between about 70 mm and about 180 mm more preferably between about 80 mm to about 150 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Typically pressure drop values of cigarettes are measured using a Filtrona Filter Test Station CTS Series available form Filtrona Instruments and Automation Ltd.

In use the smoker lights the lighting end of the cigarette and draws smoke into his her mouth through the filter element at the opposite end of the cigarette. The smoker can smoke all or a portion of the cigarette with the object intact. During the portion of the smoking experience that the object remains intact smoke generated in the tobacco rod is drawn to the smoker through the filter material of the filter element. Most preferably the overall character or nature of the drawn smoke is virtually unaffected to any significant degree as a result of the presence of the intact object within the filter element. If desired the smoker may rupture the object at any time before during or even after the smoking experience. Breakage of the object acts to release the contents that are contained and sealed therewithin. Release of the contents of the object into the filter element thus enables the smoker to achieve the intended benefit of action of certain of those contents whether that benefit results from flavoring or scenting the smoke cooling or moistening the smoke freshening the scent of the cigarette butt or achieving some other goal associated with modifying the overall composition of the smoke or altering the performance characteristics of the cigarette. That is in highly preferred embodiments the contents of the object are not released into the filter element until the object is purposefully physically broken but when the object is ruptured a portion of component contained within the object e.g. portions of a flavoring agent that is consequently released into the filter element is incorporated into each subsequent puff of mainstream smoke that is received through that filter element.

During use of the cigarette application of physical pressure to the object for example by a squeezing action provided by the fingers of the smoker to the filter element causes relevant regions of the filter element to deform and hence causes the object to rupture and release its payload to the filter material of the filter element. The rupture of the object can be discerned by an audible pop or snap the feel of a crushing or shattering of the object or the sense of a rapid decrease in the resistance to the pressure applied by the smoker. Rupture of the object causes contents of its payload to disperse throughout portions of the filter material and potentially to some extent into the tobacco rod . Most preferably the filter element into which the object is placed and maintained is such that the filter element effectively maintains its overall shape during the manufacture storage and use of the cigarette. Most preferably the filter element is sufficiently flexible such that the overall cylindrical shape of the filter element returns to essentially its original shape after the application of pressure to the filter element is ceased. That is the filter element possesses sufficient flexibility to allow squeezing pressure applied by the fingers of the smoker to break the object and sufficient resilience to allow the deformed filter element to return to its original shape.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette possessing a tobacco rod having a filter element connected at an end thereof using tipping material . The filter element is composed of two longitudinally aligned segments . The first segment which is positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod preferably in an abutting end to end relationship possesses a filter material and a circumscribing plug wrap . The second segment is positioned adjacent the first segment preferably in an abutting end to end relationship at the extreme mouthend of the cigarette. The second segment incorporates filter material having a rupturable object disposed therein. The longitudinal surface of the second filter element is in turn circumscribed by plug wrap . The type of filter element previously described with reference to can be used to provide the second filter segment . Each of those segments are maintained in place relative to one another using plug wrap that circumscribes the outer longitudinally extending surfaces of both of those filter segments. A ventilated or air diluted smoking article can be provided with an optional air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material as well as the plug wrap for the two filter segments and plug wrap of the first segment .

The plug wrap for the region of the second filter segment incorporating the object can be that type of plug wrap material e.g. non porous plug wrap described previously with reference to .

For a typical dual segment filter element the second filter segment possessing the object typically has a length of about 15 mm to about 30 mm and the first filter segment has a length of about 5 mm to about 15 mm most preferably about 10 mm. Preferred dual segment filter elements have overall lengths of about 25 mm to about 35 mm.

The first segment most preferably is a generally cylindrically shaped filter segment. The first segment most preferably is manufactured using a traditional cigarette filter material such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered polypropylene web gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Exemplary cigarette filter segments for multi component cigarette filters are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 920 990 to Lawrence et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker U.S. Pat. No. 5 074 320 to Jones et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 838 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. Carbonaceous material such as activated charcoal particles also can be incorporated into that filter segment.

Other types of cigarettes possessing multi component filters also can be used to incorporate those types of object containing filter segments representative the present invention. That is cigarettes can possess multi component filter elements having other types of formats and configurations. For example a two segment filter element can have one segment possessing a rupturable object and that segment can be positioned between the tobacco rod and the extreme mouth end filter segment. As another example a three segment filter element can have one segment possessing a rupturable object and that segment can be positioned immediately adjacent the tobacco rod at the extreme mouth end of the cigarette or as the middle filter segment between the tobacco end filter segment and the mouth end filter segment. Object containing filter segments made according to the method of the present invention can be incorporated into the multi component filter of cigarettes of the type set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley U.S. Pat. No. 5 396 909 to Gentry et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 718 250 to Banerjee et al US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 03 047836 to Xue et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. See also the representative types of filter elements set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 046 063 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 064 791 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 075 936 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 357 950 to Berger and U.S. Pat. No. 4 508 525 to Berger which are incorporated herein by reference. For example the types of objects set forth as cigarette filter components in US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. and 2005 0070409 to Deal and PCT Application WO 03 009711 to Kim which are incorporated herein by reference can be replaced with the types of objects set forth herein.

If desired the types of filter elements set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 724 997 to Smith et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety can incorporate the aforementioned types of objects.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of the present invention can be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

