---

title: Explosive blast frequency control shield and method
abstract: A composite shield comprises a panel including an outer ballistic fabric strike surface layer and an inner structural armor plate layer. The structural armor plate layer has a multiplicity of traversing ports. The traversing ports have sufficient lateral area to allow deformation of the ballistic fabric through the structural armor plate layer on the occurrence of explosive blast. The composite shield is particularly effective in protecting personnel. Blast frequencies in the damaging 1000 to 3000 Hz range are attenuated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09046325&OS=09046325&RS=09046325
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09046325
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130823
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional application 61 723 896 filed Nov. 8 2012 for the invention of an Explosive Blast Shield for Buildings by Alyssa A. Littlestone and Philip J. Dudt. This application is also a continuation in part of pending application Ser. No. 13 779 973 filed Feb. 28 2013 for the invention of an Explosive Blast Shield for Buildings by Alyssa A. Littlestone and Philip J. Dudt. Ser. No. 13 779 973 claims the benefit of provisional application 61 723 896 filed Nov. 8 2012. Both the provisional application Ser. No. 61 723 896 and the non provisional application Ser. No. 13 779 973 are incorporated herein by reference it their entirety.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates to ordnance such as an explosive blast shield. More particularly the invention relates to a composite panel having explosive blast frequency mitigating components. The invention is a method of mitigating specific blast frequencies that are damaging to human tissue.

Explosive blast attack against people in open areas and in buildings continues to be a challenge in the armor arts. The primary defense against militant blast attack in open areas around buildings is a perimeter vehicle barrier such as a concrete wall. However explosive blast generates a pressure wave that continues past a perimeter barrier. If a large explosive load is detonated the pressure wave can travel with sufficient force to cause traumatic brain injury to people behind concrete walls and inside buildings.

Mechanisms that result in traumatic brain injury have been investigated. Suggested mechanisms include blast compression of body cavities which generate vascular pulses transmitted to the brain skull deflection explosively generated piezoelectric charge formation from loading on the bones of the skull blast induced cerebral spinal fluid cavitation and direct transmission of pressures and accelerations sufficient to induce injury into the brain. G. J. Cooper investigated the connection between blast frequencies and effects on humans. He found that the frequency range of 1000 and 3000 Hz is particularly damaging to lung tissue. This damaging frequency range is identified in the Drawing as the Cooper Injury Range. This work is reported in G. J. Cooper Protection of the Lung from Blast Overpressures by Thoracic Stress Wave Decouplers vol. 40 no. 3 1996 incorporated herein by reference. One method of reducing some of the injury to humans would be to limit exposure to blast frequencies in this range.

Investigations of potential barrier panels have identified blast wave couplers and de couplers. Simple soft foams increased blast damage to the thorax. This was attributed to coupling the blast more effectively with the body. However when high impedance materials such as high Young s modulus and or density materials were used as a facing and backed by a low impedance material such as soft foam a blast wave decoupling was observed. Decoupling resulted in less internal blast damage to the human body.

Investigators have found that textiles exhibit differing behaviors in response to blast pressure loadings. Vests comprising some textile materials altered blast pressure loading on the thorax. One study found that a ballistic fabric vest increased blast associated injury. Another study indicated that blast pressure loading on the body could be reduced if textile fibers were pre compressed instead of being loose.

There is a continuing need in the art of personnel protection for an effective explosive blast shield. To be fully effective in protecting human tissue any shield must protect against the force of an explosive blast pressure wave and particularly limit exposure to the most damaging blast frequencies.

A blast shield comprises a laminar panel having at least two abutting layers. A strike surface layer comprises a woven ballistic fabric. The ballistic fabric has physical properties including 

A structural armor plate layer has traversing ports through it. Each traversing port has sufficient lateral area to allow blast deflection of the ballistic fabric into the traversing ports. Port diameters of 0.25 inches to 2 inches are sufficient to facilitate this deflection.

The ballistic fabric faced panel has blast force dissipating properties. In addition the panel has been found to reduce blast frequencies particularly in the damaging 1000 to 3000 Hz range. The amount of reduction in this frequency range has been found to be sufficient to reduce human tissue injury. The panel is used in a method of shielding humans from traumatic blast including damaging blast frequencies.

The objective of our work was a light weight panel that limited blast pressure exposure in the damaging 1000 to 3000 Hz frequency range. A secondary objective was to limit exposure over a larger spectrum of blast frequencies. We accomplished this by combining selected textile fabrics with Ported ballistic armor plates. To be fully effective in mitigating injury to humans a shield must mitigate the transmission of 1000 to 3000 Hz range frequencies in the pressure wave.

We used ported ballistic armor plates to support selected textile fabrics in planar orientation. We tested five ported plate configurations in combination with single and double ply facings of KEVLAR ballistic fabric. Ballistic fabric textiles were selected for their very high strength and elongation properties under high rate loadings typical of explosive blast. The ballistic fabric we used in our tests was DuPont KEVLAR R KM Plus 28 yarns inch by 28 yarns inch plain weave. Areal density of a single layer ply of this ballistic fabric was 0.025 pounds square foot. Surprisingly none of the ballistic fabric layers in the ported plate ballistic fabric assemblies we tested tore when exposed to direct explosive blast. This is distinguished from metallic foil layers under the same test conditions reported in co pending application Ser. No. 13 779 973 for Explosive Blast Shield for Buildings to Alyssa A. Littlestone and Philip J. Dudt.

The invention is described with reference to the Drawing. The Drawing discloses a preferred embodiment of the invention and is not intended to limit the generally broad scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. The Drawing is schematic and is not drawn to scale.

Reference is made to and . A generally planar blast shield comprises a composite panel . Frame members and hold the composite panel in a generally vertical planar orientation. The composite panel is the assembled combination of a ballistic fabric layer and a structural armor plate layer . Blast shield is mounted on and fixedly attached to a concrete pad . Bolts and are attached to the concrete pad which also includes steel reinforcement bars not shown . Frame member is fixedly attached to concrete pad by means of the steel alloy bolts and and nuts and . Concrete pad may be immobilized with steel reinforcement bars not shown driven into the ground G.

Alternative mountings of the blast shield are contemplated. Often the blast shield is elevated so that a congregation area a building window or other place people may assemble is shielded as much as possible from direct view of a blast pressure wave. A contemplated alternative mounting includes frame member placed atop a Jersey barrier not shown immobilized on the ground G. The positioning of blast shield is selected to protect people diagrammatically indicated in by person P3 behind the shield in the post blast congregation area .

Alternative mountings of the blast shield extend utility. The blast shield may be used to shield portions of buildings. For example the blast shield may be mounted to shield windows and doors. This can be accomplished in several ways. The blast shield may be mounted as a window or door shutter that is opened and closed as desired. The blast shield may be integrally mounted as part of a balcony so that it shields an elevated window or door from direct street view. Architectural panels comprising the shield may be attached to the building frame and positioned as an addition to an exterior surface on portions of static structures. In another mounting the panel is attached to a motor vehicle door or side panel to protect passengers.

Laminar blast shield comprises adjacent layers including a ballistic fabric strike layer and a structural armor plate layer .

Strike layer comprises a single ply or multiple plies of ballistic fabric. The terms ply and layer are used interchangeably herein. It was found experimentally that a ballistic fabric layer having uniform areal density of 0.020 lb ft pounds per square foot or greater reduced the amplitude of blast frequencies in the 1000 to 3000 Hz range. A preferred ballistic fabric areal density range of 0.020 to 0.060 lb ft pounds per square foot was found to produce advantageous amplitude reductions in the critical 1000 to 3000 Hz frequency range.

Areal density is a term used in the ballistic armor arts and defined in MIL STD 662 Department of Defense Test Method Standard Dec. 18 1997 incorporated herein by reference. Areal density is a measure of the weight of armor material per unit area. It is expressed in pounds per square foot or kilograms per square meter of armor surface area. Areal density can be thought of as the amount of armor that a potential penetrator will encounter immediately on contacting the surface. The terms surface density and superficial density are also used for the same areal density measurement. This military standard also specifies the ballistic resistance test for ballistic fabrics.

Fibers used to form ballistic fabrics resistant to penetration and deformation are made of high strength synthetic polymer that is difficult to rupture. These fiber materials have densities in the range of 0.03 lb into 0.06 lb in pounds per cubic inch . Suitable materials include a number of commercially available synthetic fiber materials. Such synthetic fibers include aramid polymers polyaramid polymers e.g. KEVLAR high density polyethylene polymers e.g. SPECTRA and polypropylene polymers e.g. TEGRIS . Natural fibers can be used for ballistic fabric. All of these fibers are used in woven ballistic fabric. Reduction in blast protection is increased with the addition of layers of unidirectional ravings and plies. Also tightly woven cloth with more crossover points causes increased mitigation of the blast wave due to internal reflections.

A preferred material of construction for the ballistic fabric include an aramid polymer particularly para aramid polymer sold under the registered trade name KEVLAR by du Pont de Nemours of Wilmington Del. We selected KEVLAR R KM Plus fabric for use in the Example based on reported physical properties. Those physical properties are reproduced in Table 1.

Ballistic fabrics having resistance to penetration and deformation are made of high strength flexible fibers that are difficult to rupture. Suitable materials include various commercially available synthetic fibrous materials. Such synthetic fibers include aramid polymers polyaramid polymers polyethylene polymers and polypropylene polymers.

Para aramid fibers are sold under the registered trademarks KEVLPR TECHNORA and TWARON . Meta aramid fibers are sold under the registered trademarks NOMEX TEJINCONEX NESTAR and X FIPER . Polypropylene fibers are sold under the registered trade mark TEGRIS . Preferred ballistic fibers are made of super fiber materials such as ultra high molecular weight polyethylene sold under the registered trademarks DYNEEMA and SPECTRA . Natural silk fibers include silk worm silk and spider silk.

A preferred material of construction is an aramid polymer particularly para aramid polymer sold under the registered trade mark KEVLAR by du Pont de Nemours of Wilmington Del. KEVLAR particularly useful for ballistic properties is sold under the name KEVLAR 129 and KEVLAR R KM Plus. Another preferred ballistic fabric is made of synthetic polymer sold under the trade name DYNEEM .

Ballistic fabrics of the invention woven from yarns of natural and synthetic yarns or filaments have physical properties including 

Ballistic fabrics of the invention woven from only synthetic yarns or filaments have physical properties including 

 ii. a Young s modulus of 700 000 lb inor greater. These synthetic based ballistic fabrics are attached to a structural armor plate layer in an amount to provide a uniform areal density of 0.020 lb ftto 0.060 lb ft.

Tensile strength is a measure of the resistance of a material to tearing. It is the measure of the maximum tension that the material can withstand from a stretching load without tearing. Young s modulus is a measure of the stiffness of an elastic material and is particularly used to quantify the stiffness of similar materials relative to each other. Young s modulus is defined as the stress divided by the linear strain applied along the same axis Young s modulus is also known as the modulus of elasticity. Young s modulus is determined experimentally from the slope of a stress strain curve constructed from tensile test measurements.

Structural armor plate layer comprises a ballistic armor plate having a minimum Young s modulus of 300 000 psi and a Poisson s ratio between 0.2 and 0.35. These physical properties are achieved with a 0.25 inch to 5 inch thick layer of a ballistic armor plate of a material such as surface hardened steel titanium armor alumina based ceramic glass reinforced plastic molded nylon and the like. Structural armor plate layer has the physical characteristics of rolled homogeneous armor such as that produced to U.S. Military Specification MIL A 12560 and the like. Examples of steel include high carbon content modified steel such as American Iron and Steel Institute AISI grade 4340 Ni Cr Mo steel or 4130 Cr Mo steel. The steel may also be U.S. Military Specification. MIL A 46100 or MIL A 12560 ballistic armor. Another steel is HY 130 Ni Cr Mn Mo . In the co pending application we used a naval steel plate commercially identified as HY 100 Ni Cr Mo Mn . HY 100 has a Young s modulus of 30 million psi and a Poisson s ratio of 0.280. The thickness of steel plate is 0.25 inches or more preferable 0.25 inches to 5 inches. A steel plate thickness of 0.5 inch to 4 inches has been found to be effective and practical for the intended use. In the Example we used a 0.5 inch thick 6061 T6 aluminum plate. Aluminum armor plate of various thicknesses particularly in thicknesses of 0.25 inches to 5 inches is useful for the invention.

A suitable titanium armor is titanium alloy Ti 6Al 4V. These ballistic armors are commercially available in thicknesses of 0.25 inches to 6 inches.

Attention is drawn to which shows a frontal view of the shield along section 2 2 in . The structural armor plate layer is modified with traversing ports S which pass completely through the armor plate layer . Traversing ports have diameters D providing sufficient lateral area to allow deformation of the ductile strike layer including highly strain rate hardening polymer layer through the structural armor plate layer. Sufficient lateral area is defined by the ballistic fabric strike surface layer material. It has been found experimentally that traversing port diameters of 0.25 inches to 2 inches are sufficient to allow deformation of the ballistic fabric strike surface into structural armor plate layer . In general one ply of ballistic fabric having an areal density of 0.020 to 0.060 pounds per square foot lb ft performed well in ports having diameters in the range of 0.25 to 1 inch. Two plies i.e. layers of ballistic fabric providing two times the area density performed well in ports having diameters in the range of 1 inch to 2 inches. That is relatively thicker ballistic fabric layers having relatively greater areal density should be combined with relatively larger diameter traversing ports to provide for deformation of the ballistic fabric layer into the ports to dissipate blast energy and filter the most damaging blast frequencies.

Relatively thinner ballistic fabric layers having relatively lesser areal density should be combined with relatively smaller diameter traversing ports. Excluded from the invention are ports that do not have sufficient diameter to allow deflection of explosively deformed ballistic fabric strike surface layer into them. For example a plurality of small diameter perforations may provide considerable free area but not allow extension of explosively deformed ballistic fabric strike surface layer there through. That is smaller diameter perforations do not allow the mechanism of the invention to function. The mechanism of the invention provides for a multiplicity of ballistic fabric diaphragms to dissipate blast force by stretching and then recovering to the original laminar sheet shape. The extent of fabric stretching was defined by the force of the blast and physical characteristics of the fabric.

Ports are formed by drilling grinding chemical machining and the like. Precision is not necessary for the diameters D of the traversing ports. Depending on the anticipated threat it may be desirable to provide a number of different diameters i.e. variation in diameters over the inventive range in the structural armor plate layer . Multiple diameters of different magnitude i.e. variation in diameter D provide further variation in partitioning the blast pressure wave. Radii shown in are by definition equal to one half the port diameter. The ports in combination with the underlying structural armor plate layer modify the blast pressure wave and dampen peak blast wave pressure impacting the target populated area . The ported structural armor plate layer provides additional dividing and mitigation of the explosive blast wave.

In armor plate layer and ports correspond with armor plate layer and ports in and . shows a side view of the shield along section 3 3 in . shows that the structural armor plate layer is modified with traversing ports which pass completely through the plate.

In addition to showing section 3 3 in . shows post explosion blast shield following the occurrence of explosive blast schematically shown as explosive blast EXP3 directed against person P3. In corresponding bolts nuts frame members and pad remain undamaged that is the same as shown in .

Blast shield is blast shield following deformation by explosive blast EXP3. Post blast structural armor plate layer corresponds with structural armor plate layer in . Following explosive blast EXP3 post blast ballistic fabric layer has been stretched as shown schematically in . The ballistic fabric remained intact in all of our tests.

Laminar blast shield is assembled by stretching ballistic fabric layer over the structural armor plate layer and holding it in position with frame members and . This allows for distension of the ballistic fabric in the ports and transmission of blast forces through the fabric. As a result transmission of the most damaging 1000 to 3000 Hz frequencies to person P3 is reduced. That is the most damaging blast frequencies from the explosive blast. EXP3 are mitigated for any person P3 in post blast area .

Inventors were inspired by their observations of explosive blast pressure measurements on diaphragm gauges. An ordinary diaphragm gauge includes a metallic pressure sensing element that elastically deforms under the effect of a pressure difference across the element. A ductile metallic disk is the pressure sensing element mounted over a circular port and exposed to an explosive blast. The ductile metallic diaphragm responds to excess pressure with a dish shaped deflection alternately referred to as hemispherical or concave deflection. Explosive blast pressure is read by comparison of the amount of diaphragm deflection with a set of blast pressure calibrated diaphragms. It is possible to construct a stress strain curve of a diaphragm material by exposing disks to sequentially increased explosive charges.

There is no simple method for calculating the rupture of a diaphragm gauge exposed to an explosive blast wave. Methods have been developed that rely on theoretical calculations corrected with empirical data. The methods are useful in reverse for estimating a useful measurement range for a diaphragm gauge and the blast wave pressure at which rupture may occur. By way of example at explosive charge weights up to 20 pounds the deformation of steel diaphragms is proportional to the 0.6 power of charge weight and the 1.2 power of charge stand off distance. At explosive charge weights of 100 pounds or more the deformation of steel diaphragms is proportional to the 0.5 power of charge weight and the 1.13 power of charge stand off distance. Larger diameter ports allow for larger diaphragm deformations. It is also possible to measure maximum deformation before rupture for various thicknesses of thin ductile metallic sheet material. The Examples supplemented with routine laboratory optimizations provide the user with a method of selecting ballistic fabric material for use in the invention.

Inventors found that a metallic pressure sensing element could be replaced with a sheet of ballistic fabric that dissipated considerable more explosive blast pressure than metallic pressure sensing elements previously investigated. In addition the amplitude of certain particularly damaging frequencies in the blast frequency spectrum was reduced. Blast pressure dissipation was achieved by selecting circular port diameter and selecting ballistic fabric. The ballistic fabric distended into the ports but did not rupture to form spall during any of the tests.

Thickness of the structural armor plate and circular port diameter are selected in view of the magnitude of the anticipated explosive threat. Armor plate thicknesses at the upper end of the inventive range are paired with more ballistic fabric plies to defeat a larger magnitude explosive threat. Armor plate thicknesses at the lower end of the inventive range are paired with a single ballistic fabric ply to defeat an anticipated smaller magnitude explosive threat. Although any of the combinations of materials is effective for the intended purpose it has been found that two plies of ballistic fabric paired well with 1 inch to 2 inch ports. A single ballistic fabric ply paired well with 0.25 inch to 1 inch ports. Smaller port diameters provide more support for thinner ballistic fabric.

The ballistic fabric ply we used in our tests was DuPont KEVLAR R KM Plus 28 yarns inch by 28 yarns inch plain weave. Areal density of a single ply of this ballistic fabric was 0.025 pounds square foot.

The armor we used was 0.5 inch thick 6061 T6 aluminum plate having traversing ports with port diameters in the range of 0.4 to 2.0 inches. We faced the armor plates with a. DuPont KEVLAR R KM Plus layer 0.025 pounds square foot . The density of aluminum is 0.1 pounds cubic inch. The weight of each 0.5 inch 11 inch 11 inch target armor plate assembly was about 6 pounds. Ports comprising up to 58 percent of the volume reduced the armor plate tested to about 3.5 pounds.

Five ported aluminum plates were fabricated. Three of the plates were fabricated with an array of single port diameters as follows 

We used blockage ratio described with reference to to characterize port area. Blockage ratio is unity minus the ratio of port surface area total blast exposed area. The exposed area on each plate was 11 inch 11 inch. The blockage ratios are shown in Table 1 for the ported plate variations.

Unit blockage ratio is based on a unit cell. It takes into account that the exposed panel size would not be constrained by the 11 inch 11 inch area and the ports would uniformly cover the larger area. Port patterns did not extend to the edge of the test panels and had a border. As seen in Table 2 the 16 25 port panel had the least unit blockage ratio of 0.5. Table 2 reports unit blockage ratios unit BR based on a unit cell. However in actual use panel size would be chosen to shield a specific congregated area. That is panels would be much larger than our 11 inch 11 inch test samples and the border area would be effectively insignificant.

The ported panels with and without ballistic fabric were mounted on test stands. The test stands were large frames for the ported panels. The 12 inch 12 inch ported aluminum panels were clamped into place. Exposed test area was 11 inch 11 inch with a half inch border for attachment. The orthogonal arrangement of test panels around an explosive test charge allowed for testing four panels simultaneously. The ballistic fabric was mounted as a facing on the ported panels and held in place by the frame. The ported plate surface was spaced from the center of an explosive charge. The end detonated explosive charge produced a nominal 24 psi overpressure measured 8 inches behind the panel. This is sufficient overpressure to cause a human casualty. It was found that the explosive charges produced a distinct peak around 1500 Hz. This is the center of the 1000 to 3000 Hz injury region identified by G. J. Cooper.

The scientific literature reports that initiation of lung damage for one time blast exposure is a function of peak pressure and duration impulse . We have not found a definitive determination of the mechanism for traumatic brain injury in the relevant scientific literature. It is reported What blast exposure sufficient to cause brain injury may be less than for lung damage.

A pressure sensor was positioned 8 inches behind each panel i.e. 36 inches from the explosive charge to record the level of pressure transiting the panel. The pressure sensors used were PCB Model 137A23 Quartz ICP pressure pencil probes. Separate pressure probes were positioned at 28 inches distance to the panel surface from charge center and 36 inches distance behind the panel surface to measure the free field pressure. The peak pressure averaged 23 to 24 psi at the 36 inch distance. As stated four test panels were tested simultaneously.

The frame test stand and instrument assembly was designed to capture the primary explosive blast pressure pulse. However analysis of the data showed that a portion of the primary explosive pulse traveled around the frame test stand and was recorded on the pressure sensor. Because of this indirect route of travel this secondary pulse was recorded with a measurable time delay behind the primary pulse.

It must be understood that the secondary pulse was an artifact of the small test panel size. A secondary pulse may not be recorded in a larger full scale installation such as a door or window shield that provides additional cooperative shielding. However in an open field installation such as on a Jersey barrier secondary pulses could impact the populated area behind the panel.

 ii. with a single KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply. Additional transmitted pressure measurements were made with

The pressure time profile measured was the basis for determining the Fourier spectrum. The Fourier spectrum was used to analyze the frequency content of the blast wave. We were interested in finding pressure reduction in the 1000 to 3000 Hz frequency range.

The results obtained from these tests include pressure profiles from gauges placed both behind each panel and at a distance in the free field. We also visually inspected test specimens and took photographs. From the pressure profile we calculated impulse. Fourier spectrum and identified maximum pressure. Fourier spectrum provided a graphical view of the frequency distribution. Impulse was calculated because it has been identified as a blunt impact brain injury mechanism. In addition to peak pressure impulse is a measurement of blast exposure.

We inspected the panels after testing. We noted that none of the KEVLAR ballistic fabric test samples tore during blast extension into the ports. We noticed considerable pull out around the edges of the ports as the ballistic fabric sprang back after extension into the ports. We noted an imprint of the ports was left on each KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply. The individual responses of the panels were recorded as follows.

The 16 port ballistic armor plate was a 4 4 array of 2 inch diameter ports. The panel was tested as described above.

This panel had the lowest blockage ratio of 0.58. shows the pressure time profiles for the tests without a panel a bare 16 port plate without fabric a 16 port panel with one KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply and a 16 port panel with two KEVLAR ballistic fabric plies.

The pressure pulses were digitally separated in for easier interpretation. As seen in the ported plate without ballistic fabric decreased transmitted pressure from about 24 psi to about 20 psi about 17 reduction . Addition of one KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply reduced the pressure to about 2 3 psi about 90 reduction . Two plies of KEVLAR ballistic fabric reduced the pressure to about 1 psi 96 reduction . This was significant pressure reduction for the relatively small added weight of a second ply.

The Fourier spectrum for the recorded pressure pulse is shown in . The 1000 to 3000 Hz injury region is identified as the cooper Injury Range. The blast frequency content in the 1000 to 3000 Hz range was decreased with a single ply of KEVLAR ballistic fabric. A large reduction in frequency content began at about 1000 Hz. There was more reduction in the 1000 to 3000 Hz range with addition of a second KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply. Two KEVLAR ballistic fabric plies also reduced the transmitted pressure at frequencies above 3000 Hz.

The panel was a 4 4 array of ports with 1.6 inch diameters. An additional 25 ports of 0.8 inch diameter were added between the larger ports. The panel was tested as described.

The 0.50 unit blockage ratio of this panel was the lowest of all the panels tested. However within the 11 inch 11 inch exposed specimen area the blockage ratio was 0.54 slightly greater than the 16 port panel.

Transmitted pressures for the 16 25 port panel are shown in . Results for the tests without a panel a bare 16 25 port plate without fabric a 16 25 port panel with one KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply and a 16 25 port panel with two KEVLAR ballistic fabric plies are shown. The pressure drop from the ported plate alone was from about 24 to 20 psi the same as for the 16 port panel. One KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply reduced pressure from about 24 psi to about 2.5 psi about 90 reduction. A second KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply provided additional though lesser reduction.

The 64 port plate was an 8 8 array of 0.8 inch diameter ports. The panel was tested as described above.

Unit blockage ratio was 0.69. Panel blockage ratio was 0.73. This 64 port panel without a KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply decreased the transmitted pressure to about 18 psi. . This is a pressure drop to 25 . Adding a single KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply resulted in a drop to nominally 2 psi in transmitted pressure a 90 reduction. Adding a second ply provided lesser additional reduction in pressure.

Fourier spectrum is shown in for each case. There was a major drop in the critical 1000 to 3000 Hz frequency range. The 1000 to 3000 Hz injury region is identified as the Cooper Injury Range.

The 64 49 port plate was an 8 8 array of 0.4 inch diameter ports and a 7 7 array of larger 0.8 inch diameter ports. The unit blockage ratio for this panel was 0.62. Panel blockage ratio was 0.73. The panel was tested as described.

Test results for the pressure time characteristics are shown in . A second KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply was not evaluated. The pressure drop with the ported plate alone was about 17 psi a 30 reduction in pressure.

The pressure transmitted through the ported plate with a single layer of ballistic fabric was quite low. The impulse was also low as reported . The peak diffracted pressure with a single KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply was close to 10 psi.

The 225 port plate was a 15 15 array of 0.4 inch diameter ports. This panel had the highest blockage ratio of 0.77. Unit blockage ratio was 0.69. The panel was tested as described.

The transmitted pressure was about 19 psi . However the 64 49 port panel with a blockage ratio of 0.73 had a lower transmitted value of 17 psi. Addition of a single KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply was effective in limiting transmitted pressure and impulse as seen in and . Incident pressure was 24 psi and the transmitted pressure after contact with the panel was about 4 psi an 83 reduction.

A comparison of all the Fourier spectra for the ported plates with a single KEVLAR ballistic fabric ply is shown in . Overall the KEVLAR ballistic fabrics and the different ported plate panels produced a significant drop in the 1000 to 3000 Hz frequency range associated with lung injury. The 1000 to 3000 Hz injury region is identified as the Cooper Injury Range. We did not consider increased areal density with addition of a second KEVLAR layer significant for practical applications. Frequencies over 3000 Hz were also reduced.

Ported plates with blockage ratios between 0.58 and 0.77 were fabricated. We found that the transmitted blast pressure could be reduced by as much as 30 percent. A single ply of ballistic fabric reduced transmitted pressure by up to 90 percent of the initial pulse magnitude. There was also an equivalent reduction in transmitted impulse. When ballistic fabric was added reductions were substantially independent of blockage ratio. Lowering blockage ratio reduces the weight of the ballistic armor panel. A single ply of KEVLAR ballistic fabric resulted in a major reduction in blast frequency amplitude in the critical 1000 to 3000 Hz range as well as a reduction in higher frequencies.

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes embodiments of the invention by way of example. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from this discussion that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

