---

title: Heart monitoring system usable with a smartphone or computer
abstract: A personal monitoring device has a sensor assembly configured to sense physiological signals upon contact with a user's skin. The sensor assembly produces electrical signals representing the sensed physiological signals. A converter assembly, integrated with, and electrically connected to the sensor assembly, converts the electrical signals generated by the sensor assembly to a frequency modulated physiological audio signal having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09649042&OS=09649042&RS=09649042
owner: ALIVECOR, INC.
number: 09649042
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130812
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 796 188 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 509 882 filed Jun. 8 2010 titled HEART MONITORING SYSTEM USABLE WITH A SMARTPHONE OR COMPUTER Publication No. US 2011 0301435 A1 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

The presently claimed and disclosed inventive concept s relates generally to personal physiology monitoring devices and methods and more particularly but not by way of limitation to devices systems and software for providing ECG heart rate and cardiac arrhythmia monitoring utilizing a computing device such as a smartphone.

The prior art includes numerous systems wherein ECG data or the like is monitored and or transmitted from a patient to a particular doctor s office or health service center. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 735 285 discloses use of a handheld device that converts a patient s ECG signal into a frequency modulated audio signal that may then be analyzed by audio inputting via a telephone system to a selected handheld computer device or to a designated doctor s office. Similarly U.S. Pat. No. 6 264 614 discloses a heart monitor which is manipulated by the patient to sense a biological function such as a heart beat and outputs an audible signal to a computer microphone. The computer processes the audible signal and sends resulting data signals over a network or Internet. U.S. Pat. No. 6 685 633 discloses a heart monitor that a patient can hold against his or her chest. The device outputs an audible signal responsive to the function or condition such as the beating of the heart to a microphone connected to a computer.

U.S. Pat. App. Publication No. 20100113950 discloses an electronic device having a heart sensor including several leads for detecting a user s cardiac signals. The leads are coupled to interior surfaces of the electronic device housing to hide the sensor from view. Using the detected signals the electronic device can then identify or authenticate the user.

Limitations of the prior art utilizing acoustic signals include a signal to noise ratio that is diminished by talking or any other noisy activity in the vicinity thus potentially jeopardizing the integrity of the heart monitoring data signals. Additionally the audible signals can be heard by anyone in the vicinity of the computer and heart monitor which can be bothersome to the user as well as to others in the vicinity. Other applications fail to provide a reliable inexpensive personal monitoring device that is readily compatible with existing computing devices such as smartphones. It would be advantageous if these issues were addressed in a personal monitoring device transmitting real time physiological data.

Embodiments of the presently claimed and disclosed invention are directed to a personal monitoring device having a sensor assembly configured to sense physiological signals upon contact with a user s skin. The sensor assembly produces electrical signals representing the sensed physiological signals. A converter assembly integrated with and electrically connected to the sensor assembly converts the electrical signals generated by the sensor assembly to a frequency modulated physiological audio signal. In one embodiment the frequency modulated physiological audio signal has a carrier frequency in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz.

In another embodiment the personal monitoring device includes a cable connected to the converter assembly for transmitting the frequency modulated physiological audio signal to a 3.5 mm headphone jack on a smartphone wherein the converter assembly is electrically isolated from the smartphone by an audio isolation transformer. In this case the frequency modulated physiological audio signal has a carrier frequency in the range of from about 1 kHz to about 20 kHz.

In yet another embodiment the personal monitoring device includes a wireless radio transmitter configured to utilize Bluetooth headset technology to transmit the frequency modulated physiological audio signal having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 1 kHz to about 20 kHz to a Bluetooth enabled computing device.

An ECG device of the presently claimed and disclosed inventive concept s includes an electrode assembly configured to sense heart related signals upon contact with a user s skin and to convert the sensed heart related signals to an ECG electric signal. A converter assembly integrated with and electrically connected to the electrode assembly is configured to convert the electric ECG signal generated by electrode assembly to a frequency modulated ECG audio signal having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz.

In one embodiment a smartphone protective case usable as an ECG device is provided. An electrode assembly configured to sense heart related signals upon contact with a user s skin and to convert the sensed heart related signals to an ECG electric signal is provided. A converter assembly integrated with and electrically connected to the electrode assembly is configured to convert the electric ECG signal generated by the electrode assembly to a frequency modulated ECG audio signal having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz and further configured to output the ECG audio signal through an audio transmitter at a signal strength capable of being received by a smartphone positioned within the smartphone protective case.

In a second embodiment an ECG device is provided in a housing having an electrode assembly configured to sense heart related signals upon contact with a user s skin and to convert the sensed heart related signals to an ECG electric signal. A converter assembly integrated with and electrically connected to the electrode assembly is configured to convert the electric ECG signal generated by electrode assembly to a frequency modulated ECG audio signal having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz and further configured to output the ECG audio signal through an audio transmitter at a signal strength capable of being received by a smartphone located near the ECG device.

In another embodiment an ECG device is provided having an electrode assembly configured to sense heart related signals upon contact with a user s skin and to convert the sensed heart related signals to an ECG electric signal. A converter assembly integrated with and electrically connected to the electrode assembly is configured to convert the electric ECG signal generated by electrode assembly to a frequency modulated ECG audio signal. A cable is provided for transmitting the frequency modulated ECG audio signal to a 3.5 mm headphone jack on a smartphone wherein the converter assembly is electrically isolated from the smartphone by an audio isolation transformer.

In yet another embodiment a computer readable storage medium is provided for storing a set of instructions capable of being executed by one or more computing devices causing the one or more computing devices to digitize and demodulate a frequency modulated ECG audio signal having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz to produce real time demodulated digital ECG data and to display on a display screen of the computing device the real time ECG signal represented by the demodulated digital ECG data.

Thus utilizing 1 the technology known in the art 2 the above referenced general description of the presently claimed and disclosed inventive concept s and 3 the detailed description of the invention that follows the advantages and novelties of the presently claimed and disclosed inventive concept s would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction experiments exemplary data and or the arrangement of the components set forth in the following description. The invention is capable of other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the terminology employed herein is for purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

The presently claimed and disclosed inventive concepts provide a personal monitoring device embodiments of which are shown schematically in . The acquisition electronics of the monitoring device includes a sensor assembly configured to sense physiological signals upon contact with a user s skin. The sensor assembly produces electrical signals representing the sensed physiological signals which input to a converter assembly integrated with the sensor assembly . Converter assembly converts the electrical signals generated by the sensor assembly to a frequency modulated physiological audio signal having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 1 kHz to about 20 kHz. In one embodiment the frequency modulated physiological audio signal has a carrier frequency in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz.

The sensor assembly can include any suitable sensor operative to detect a physiological signal that a user desires to monitor. Nonlimiting examples of such physiological signals include but are not limited to respiration heart beat heart rate electrocardiogram ECG electromyogram EMG electrooculogram EOG pulse oximetry photoplethysmogram PPG and electroencephalogram EEG .

A respiration detector can be a conventional microphone assisted stethoscope . Heart beat and heart rate can be detected as well using a conventional microphone assisted stethoscope or by using an electrode assembly to sense electrical signals generated by the heart over time. Such electrodes can also be used to detect the electrical activity of the heart over time for electrocardiography ECG . An ECG is a measurement of the small electrical changes on the skin generated when the heart muscle depolarizes during each heart beat. The output from a pair of electrodes is known as a lead . Small rises and falls in the voltage between two electrodes placed on either side of the heart can be processed to produce a graphical ECG representation such as the example ECG shown in .

Electromyography EMG detects the electrical potential generated by muscle cells when the cells are electrically or neurologically activated. The signals can be analyzed to detect medical abnormalities. Electrooculography EOG is a technique for measuring the resting potential of the retina. Usually pairs of electrodes are placed either above and below the eye or to the left and right of the eye and a potential difference measurement is a measure for the eye position.

The oxygenation of a person s hemoglobin can be monitored indirectly in a noninvasive manner using a pulse oximetry sensor rather than measuring directly from a blood sample. The sensor is placed on a thin part of the person s body such as a fingertip or earlobe and a light containing both red and infrared wavelengths is passed from one side to the other. The change in absorbance of each of the two wavelengths is measured and the difference used to estimate oxygen saturation of a person s blood and changes in blood volume in the skin. A photoplethysmogram PPG can then be obtained using the pulse oximeter sensor or with an optical sensor using a single light source. The PPG can be used to measure blood flow and heart rate. An electroencephelogram EEG can be monitored using electrodes attached to the scalp and measures voltages generated by brain activity.

The converter assembly converts the electrical signals generated by the sensor assembly to a frequency modulated physiological audio signal that can be received by a computing device . In the embodiment shown in the converter assembly includes a converter and an audio transmitter for outputting frequency modulated physiological signals having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz as frequency modulated acoustic signals. Nonlimiting examples of suitable audio transmitters include but are not limited to miniature speakers piezoelectric buzzers and the like. The acoustic signals can be received by for example a microphone in a computing device such as a smartphone personal digital assistant PDA tablet personal computer pocket personal computer notebook computer desktop computer server computer and the like.

Prior art devices have used frequency modulated physiological signals to communicate between acquisition hardware and a computing device. The signals have a carrier frequency within the audible range such as the traditional 1.9 kHz FM frequency used to transmit ECG signals. However it has been discovered that by using high frequency audio frequencies as the carrier such as frequencies in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz the acoustic communication between the acquisition electronics of the personal monitoring device and a computing device such as a smartphone is virtually silent and far more noise immune than the traditional 1.9 kHz FM ECG frequency. In fact measurements of the audio signal power in the 1.5 kHz to 15 kHz range determined that carrier frequencies of 6 kHz and higher provide communication that is immune to ambient and voice noise contamination. Also by using a carrier frequency in the 10 kHz to 15 kHz range we create both a lower noise and a silent communication between the acquisition electronics and the computing device or smartphone. An additional reason for using high carrier frequencies such as in the 6 kHz to 15 kHz range or in the 10 kHz to 15 kHz range is to allow simultaneous recording of voice and physiological signals over a single audio channel where voice and the FM signal are in different frequency bands that can be filtered and separated. The clinical applications of this embodiment can include fast and inexpensive cardiac rhythm diagnosis for physicians as well as personal ECG acquisition for patients.

In another embodiment such as that shown in the converter assembly is configured to convert the electrical signals generated by the sensor assembly to a frequency modulated physiological audio signal which is transmitted by a cable to a 3.5 mm headphone jack on a smartphone . This configuration is totally silent and immune to ambient acoustic noise. In this embodiment the converter assembly is electrically isolated from the smartphone by an audio isolation transformer . The audio isolation transformer preferably conforms to medical safety performance standards such as for example those outlined in IEC 60601 along with national and regional deviations. The cable for transmitting the frequency modulated ECG audio signal to the 3.5 mm headphone jack on the smartphone can include a splitter configured as understood by those skilled in the art to allow the user to listen to music and voice messages while transmitting the frequency modulated ECG audio signal. The splitter can also allow the user to utilize a mic or headset to record spoken voice messages such as comments and notes regarding physical symptoms simultaneously with the ECG audio signal. Using a high carrier frequency of around 10 kHz or in the 6 kHz to 20 kHz range allows simultaneous recording of voice and physiological signals over a single audio channel where the voice and the frequency modulated signal are in different frequency bands that can be readily filtered and separated.

In yet another embodiment shown in the converter assembly includes a wireless radio transmitter configured to convert and transmit the electrical signals generated by the sensor assembly using a headset profile HSP of the Bluetooth wireless communications standard is defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG and available at URL address www.bluetooth.org. The electrical signals generated by the sensor assembly are converted and transmitted using a Bluetooth transceiver and antenna and communicated to the computing device preferably a smartphone according to instructions provided by a headset controller . Economy as well as isolation and convenience are provided by using a commercially available headset controller Bluetooth transceiver and antenna powered by a headset battery wherein the electronics are commercially configured and mass produced for communicating with computing devices such as smartphones .

Computing device electronics typically include a controller a Bluetooth transceiver and antenna for receiving input from a wireless Bluetooth device. Most computing devices and all smartphones include a memory a display screen and a transceiver for transmitting receiving information signals to from a base station or web server via a cellular antenna . Thus the computing device electronics can be used to store information from the personal monitoring device in memory and or transmit the information to the base station or a specific communication address via wireless communication technology well understood by those skilled in the art.

In some cases the personal monitoring device can be considered an ECG device and includes an electrode assembly configured to sense heart related signals upon contact with a user s skin and to convert the sensed heart related signals to an ECG electric signal. As discussed in detail hereinafter the ECG device transmits a frequency modulated ECG audio signal to a smartphone via a wired audio jack connection a wireless headset or acoustically. Software running on the smartphone digitizes and processes the audio in real time where the frequency modulated ECG signal is demodulated. The ECG can be further processed using algorithms to calculate heart rate and identify arrhythmias. The ECG heart rate and rhythm information can be displayed on the smartphone stored locally for later retrieval and or transmitted in real time to a web server via a 2G 3G WiFi or other Internet connection on the smartphone . In addition to the display and local processing of the ECG data the smartphone can transmit in real time the ECG heart rate and rhythm data via a secure web connection for viewing storage and further analysis via a web browser interface using the 2G 3G or WiFi connectivity of the smartphone . Server software provides for storage further processing real time or retrospective display and formulation of a PDF ECG rhythm strip document and or other reports and formats for printing remotely or locally.

In one embodiment the converter assembly of ECG device is integrated with and electrically connected to the electrode assembly and is configured to convert the electric ECG signal generated by electrode assembly to a frequency modulated ECG audio signal having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz. It is sometimes desirable to utilize a carrier frequency in the 10 kHz to 15 kHz range in order to create both a lower noise and a silent communication between the acquisition electronics and the computing device or smartphone .

In one configuration the ECG device is usable as a smartphone protective case as shown in . One example configuration utilizes a slip on protective case for an iPhone or other smartphone the protective case including an integrated ECG electrode assembly and acquisition electronics or electrodes for generating a single lead of ECG data . The ECG electrodes are located on the side of the case opposite of the display screen . The smartphone in its ECG adapted protective case is held in both hands generating a lead one Left Arm minus Right Arm or is placed on a person s chest to generate a modified chest lead. The ECG is measured by the acquisition electronics and converted into a frequency modulated signal with a carrier or center frequency from about 6 kHz to 20 kHz or in some embodiments from 10 kHz to 15 kHz. The frequency modulated signal is output by a miniature speaker or a piezoelectric buzzer .

In another configuration the ECG device as shown schematically in is usable as a standalone real time ECG acquisition device. The ECG device is identical to the case electronics but is present in its own housing rather than being integrated into a protective case for a smartphone . This embodiment allows for use of the device to acquire ECG data and have it communicated acoustically to a PC or other computing device for demodulation processing storage and display via a web application and connection.

In either configuration the smartphone utilizes its built in microphone and CPU to acquire digitize demodulate process and then display the ECG data in real time. Also the smartphone can calculate a real time heart rate measurement and determine a cardiac rhythm diagnosis like atrial fibrillation. The smartphone can utilize its 2G 3G Bluetooth and WiFi connectivity to transmit the ECG and other data to a secure web server for real time distant display storage and analysis. Also the ECG data can be stored locally on the smartphone for later review or transmission.

In another embodiment shown schematically in the ECG device is usable as a chest strap device like a fitness heart rate monitor. The chest strap with integrated ECG electrode assembly and acquisition electronics pod generate the frequency modulated ECG signal and send it by one of two modes to the smartphone . In one mode a cable as described above plugs into the 3.5 mm headphone jack on the iPhone Blackberry or other smartphone which provides an audio input normally used for a headphone mic . This configuration is totally silent and immune to ambient acoustic noise. The ECG data is isolated from the smartphone by an audio isolation transformer . In another mode the frequency modulated audio signal is transmitted by a Bluetooth headset chip as described above and the smartphone receives it and performs the other processing steps. This configuration preferably makes use of mass produced headset electronics and includes a rechargeable battery. This configuration is wireless which provides isolation and convenience.

Software on the smartphone can also combine data and signals from other sensors built into the smartphone such as a GPS and accelerometer. Further processing of this data provides additional information related to the user such as speed location distance steps cadence body position fall detection and energy expenditure. The raw signals from the sensors and derived information can be displayed and stored locally on the smartphone as well as being transmitted to the web server over an Internet connection. Software on the web server provides a web browser interface for real time or retrospective display of the signals and information received from the smartphone and also includes further analysis and reporting.

Referring now to a computer readable storage medium stores a set of instructions wherein the instructions are capable of being executed by one or more computing devices . Nonlimiting examples of suitable computing devices include smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs tablet personal computers pocket personal computers notebook computers desktop computers and server computers. When executed the one or more computing devices is caused to digitize and demodulate a sensor input such as a frequency modulated ECG audio signal having a carrier frequency in the range of from about 6 kHz to about 20 kHz to produce real time demodulated digital ECG data. The instructions can cause the real time demodulated digital ECG data to display on a display screen of the computing device .

Sensor input can also include real time information from additional sensors as well as user input . For example in embodiments wherein the computing device is a smartphone the input can include real time information from a GPS and or accelerometer in the smartphone in addition to the demodulated digital ECG data. User input can also include spoken voice messages entered through a microphone of the computing device . Instructions can cause the sensor and or user input and to be recorded and maintained in a storage memory of the computing device .

In one embodiment the set of instructions when executed by the one or more computing devices can further cause the one or more computing devices to calculate and display in real time a heart rate represented by the frequency modulated ECG audio signal. In addition demodulated digital ECG data can be processed to identify the occurrence of an arrhythmia. In such designs the storage medium can include instructions to cause the computing device to display a warning on a display screen or emit an audible alert through the speaker at the occurrence of an arrhythmia.

Instructions can cause the computing device to store the demodulated digital ECG data in a memory of the one or more computing devices for later retrieval. The set of instructions can further cause the one or more computing devices to retrieve and transmit upon demand the stored demodulated digital ECG data to a web server via an internet connection on the computing device . Recorded spoken voice messages can be stored and transmitted to the web server simultaneously with the demodulated digital ECG data.

In other embodiments the instructions can cause the one or more computing devices to transmit the demodulated digital ECG data and or voice messages to the web server in real time.

A version of the smartphone software is packaged as a software library that can be integrated with other third party software applications. This provides a simplified and standard method for third party applications to use the ECG device to obtain heart rate and other derived information without having to develop their own data acquisition demodulation and signal processing algorithms.

A version of the software also runs on a PC and includes demodulation processing storage and transmission to the web server . The software includes the audio acquisition demodulation ECG analysis and acceleration analysis modules.

The audio acquisition module selects the appropriate audio input and samples the audio. On the iPhone audio is sampled and processed using the audio unit framework which provides low latency audio acquisition and processing. The audio unit framework also allows automatic selection of the appropriate audio source internal mic audio jack connection or Bluetooth headset. The sampling rate will typically be at 44 kHz when the modulation carrier frequency is greater than 10 kHz but for lower carrier frequencies it may use a lower audio sampling rate. On other devices this module will use the most appropriate API s for efficient low latency audio sampling.

The demodulation module demodulates a frequency modulated ECG audio signal using a linear approximation and zero crossings algorithm. The demodulator allows selection of different modulation parameters to match the particular ECG device. Demodulation using zero crossings and linear approximation works well for carrier frequencies 6 kHz and lower and has the advantage that it is simple and fast. Above 10 kHz with 44 kHz sampling the errors from linear approximation become large although the effect is somewhat reduced if applying a 40 Hz filter to the demodulated ECG. Application of sine or other curve fitting methods can be used to reduce the error associated with linear approximation for carrier frequencies above 10 kHz. Audio samples from the audio acquisition module are first passed through a digital band pass filter to remove unwanted frequencies outside the modulation range. The digital band pass filter is most effective when receiving acoustically coupled audio which can be contaminated with noise. When using a center frequency above 6 kHz the band pass filter is able to provide good noise immunity from voice and background ambient noise which is typically below 5 kHz. The band pass filter stage could be eliminated to save processing power when receiving audio via a wired or Bluetooth connection which would not be susceptible to background noise contamination. To demodulate the signal it is necessary to estimate the frequency of the audio waveform. The algorithm looks at the sign of incoming data. When the sign changes it draws a straight line between the two points and interpolates the zero value. It uses this to determine the average frequency over a 3.333 ms interval which provides ECG data at the output sampling rate of 300 Hz.

The ECG analysis module includes algorithms that process the ECG to detect and classify beats and provides a heart rate estimate. Beat to beat heart rate is calculated from the interval between beats and a more robust measurement of heart rate is calculated using median filtering of the RR intervals.

The acceleration analysis module includes algorithms that process signals from the built in 3 axis accelerometer sensor in the smartphone to derive an estimate of a person s energy expenditure steps cadence and body position and to detect falls.

From the above descriptions it is clear that the presently disclosed and claimed inventive concept s are well adapted to carry out the objects and to attain the advantages mentioned herein as well as those inherent in the presently disclosed and claimed inventive concept s . While the presented embodiments have been described for purposes of this disclosure it will be understood that numerous changes may be made which will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and which are accomplished within the spirit of the presently disclosed and claimed inventive concept s .

