---

title: Providing user confidence information to third-party systems
abstract: An online services system includes a mechanism for providing user confidence information to an external data consumer, and for determining user contribution quality. Using stored information about user actions and interactions, user confidence is evaluated for one or more parameters associated with the validity of the user's account and/or quality of the user's contributions to the online services system. Confidence values are assigned to each parameter, and the values are exposed to external data consumers. Using stored information, user actions and interactions are correlated with contribution quality to produce a metric indicative of user contribution quality. Users with low quality parameter metrics may have their contributions shown to a smaller audience or have a lower prominence in a news feed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08943604&OS=08943604&RS=08943604
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 08943604
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130226
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 876 078 filed on Sep. 3 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to online services and in particular to an online services system in which confidence information is generated for users of the system and provided to third parties.

Online services systems such as social networks have become prevalent in recent years because they provide a useful environment in which users can connect to and communicate with other users. Although a variety of different types of online services systems exist these systems commonly provide mechanisms allowing users to define and interact within their social networks. In this context a user may be an individual or any other entity such as a business or other non person entity. Accordingly while enabling social communications among friends an online services system can also be a valuable tool for businesses to engage with potential consumers. Even without a commercial purpose an online services system may allow other types of entities to spread their message. For example a non person entity may set up a page or group that other users can join or become a fan of which enables the non person entity to provide a forum to receive and transmit communications to a group of interested users.

As use of social networking systems increases so does the potential for abuse of the system through machine code written to interact with the systems as if they were a user of the system and users wanting to create multiple accounts to gain advantage in games associated with the online services systems. In addition further problems are presented by compromised user accounts stale or expired accounts or duplicate user identities to name just a few. Thus online services systems have put in place various verification schemes for users accounts within the online services system or social network.

For third parties who share users with the online services system typically independent verification of the users is used to ensure the validity of the user accounts and or sessions with the third party. Thus it is important for these entities to ascertain with a reasonable degree of certainty whether the user accounts are genuine unique and represent real people.

An online services system provides user confidence information to a third party which helps the third party ensure the validity of a user account such that it is a unique account for a real person. The online services system previously has verified the user by various means including associations with other trusted users authenticating the user session issuing challenges such as CAPTCHAs etc. The third party can leverage the confidence information thereby ensuring the legitimacy of the user account without subjecting the user to additional security measures.

The online services system receives a request for user confidence information identifies from the request a user and provides to the external data consumer a determined value of a confidence evaluation parameter for the user. The confidence evaluation parameter value is determined by analyzing a portion of the social data corresponding to interaction between users of the system where the portion is social data related to the user and the result of the analysis is the value. The online services system exposes the value e.g. via an API to a third party system such as a website. The third party then can use the confidence information about the user s account for their own purposes such as to authenticate the user at a system controlled by the third party or otherwise grant access to a computing resource provided by the third party.

In one embodiment a confidence parameter engine is configured to collect the social data present challenges to users e.g. to verify that the user is a human and not a script or machine determine the confidence evaluation parameter values and store the resulting values.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and can transmit and receive data via the network . For example the user device may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDAs or any other device including computing functionality and data communication capabilities. The user device is configured to communicate with the external data consumer and the online services system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems.

An external data consumer may communicate or share data information or services with client devices the online services system via the network responsive to requests by a client device or by the online services system . Applications that may be provided by the external data consumer include applications for online sales online auctions gift giving meetings event management discussion boards or other applications that provide data or other information to a client device through the network .

In one embodiment the online services system is a social networking system including one or more computing devices storing a social network of users and providing the users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In other embodiments the online services system provides other online services and is not a provider of social networking services or provides services not limited to social networking. The online services system is further described below in conjunction with . In use users join the online services system and may be connected to a number of other users of the online services system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the online services system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the online services system .

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the online services system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the online services system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the online services system are usually bilateral or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the online services system and connected to each other Bob and Joe share each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the online services system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the online services system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees or separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the online services system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the online services system . These items may include groups or networks where networks here refer not to physical communication networks but rather social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the online services system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the online services system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the online services system . These are just a few examples of user interactions in an online services system that includes social networking and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the online services system or in an external data consumer separate from the online services system coupled to the online services system via a network . In use stored information about user interactions may be used to determine various metrics corresponding to the users of the online services system and their behavior.

The online services system also is capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the online services system enables users to interact with each other as well as external data consumers or other entities through an API or other communication channels as described further herein.

The online services system also includes user generated content also referred to herein as user contributions which content enhances a user s interactions with the online services system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the online services system . For example a user communicates posts to the online services system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates comments or other text based data location information photos videos links and music and may include actions in response to user contributions such as likes comments and reposts or other similar data and or media posts. Content also may be added to the online services system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream. Content items represent single pieces of content that are represented as objects in the online services system . In this way users of the online services system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels increasing the interaction of users with each other and increasing the frequency with which users interact with the online services system .

As described above in conjunction with the online services system comprises a computing system that allows users to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. The online services system stores user profiles describing the users of online services in the user profile store . The user profiles include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like. In addition information specific to actions of a particular user are stored in the user store . The online services system further stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the online services system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed.

The web server links the online services system to one or more user devices and or one or more data consumers via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the online services system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The web server includes in one embodiment a news feed generator for a user comprising one or more stories based on the content of the user stores associated with a particular user. A story is a message that summarizes condenses or abstracts one or more of actions of the user from the user s stores . The generated news feed stories can then be transmitted to one or more related users e.g. the user s friends allowing the user s actions to be shared with such related users. The news feed generator applies an affinity algorithm to the contents of the user profile store accounting for a user s relationships with other users or groups as specified in the connection store . By accounting for the user relationships with other users and or groups the news feed generator determines data from the user store most relevant to other related users.

In one embodiment the news feed generator gathers user actions occurring over a selected past interval and generates a story based upon the actions. In another embodiment the news feed generator can adjust the number depth and breadth of stories created by the user in response to an event. For example if the user is suspected of having a duplicate account or is otherwise untrusted by the online services system e.g. because the user has a low confidence evaluation parameter metric the user can be flagged and their stories and actions displayed less prominently or to a smaller audience. In this respect the news feed generator may work in conjunction with the confidence parameter engine to determine the appropriate prominence of a story for a given user as described in greater detail below in conjunction with confidence parameter engine .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the online services system . The action logger populates the action log with information about user actions allowing the online services system to track various actions taken by its users within the online services system and outside of the online services system . Any interaction that a particular user takes with respect to another user is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in the action log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the online services system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user commenting on or liking a user s post or any other actions involving interacting with another user or the user s content.

When a user takes an action within the online services system the action is recorded in an action log . In one embodiment the online services system maintains the action log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the online services system an entry for the action is added to the action log .

Additionally user actions may be associated with an entity outside of the online services system such as external data consumer that is separate from the online services system . For example the action logger receives data describing a user s interaction with an external data consumer from the web server . Examples of actions where a user interacts with an external data consumer include a user expressing an interest in an external data consumer or another entity a user posting a comment to the online services system that discusses an external data consumer a user posting to the online services system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external data consumer a user attending an event associated with an external data consumer or any other action by a user that is related to an external data consumer . Thus the action log may include actions describing interactions between an online services system user and an external data consumer that is separate from the online services system .

The Application Programming Interface API request server allows one or more external data consumers to access information from the online services system by calling one or more APIs. For example the API request server may receive requests from an external data consumer regarding profile and or confidence information for users of the online services system . The API request server also may allow data consumers e.g. in some embodiments external websites to send information to the online services system by calling APIs. For example an external data consumer sends an API request to the online services system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external website via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user and communicates the collected data to the external data consumer . An example of use of the API request server in this manner is detailed in conjunction with .

The online services system further includes a confidence parameter engine configured to determine values various confidence evaluation parameters for users . For example the values may represent measures of validity of a user account such as whether a user account is believed to be a unique account for a real person whether a current user session is trusted whether a user account has ever been compromised e.g. via a stolen password by an online attacker and or whether the user has been issued and overcome a challenge. In addition the values may represent measures of the quality of the user s contributions to the system e.g. based on feedback by other users of the online services system . The confidence parameter engine retrieves social data collected from user interactions between users of the online services system e.g. from the action log user stores and connection store for determining a value for a confidence evaluation parameter for a user based on an analysis of a portion of the social data related to the individual user. The confidence parameter engine analyzes the user data e.g. using a machine learning algorithm or a rules based model and can initiate actions to create additional user data such as presenting challenges to users e.g. to verify that the user is a human and not a script or machine. The confidence parameter engine assigns values the parameters and stores the results of the analyses and the values in the confidence values store . According to one embodiment the confidence parameter engine contains logic for determining user confidence information according to the method of the present invention and is one means for so doing. According to another embodiment the confidence parameter engine contains logic working in conjunction with quality engine for determining the quality of a user s contributions in an online service information according to the method of the present invention and is one means of so doing.

In one embodiment the confidence parameter engine includes a validity engine and a quality engine for determining confidence evaluation parameters for measurable aspects of user accounts and activities pertaining to the validity of an account and or the quality of a user s contributions. For example confidence evaluation parameters associated with a measure of validity of a user account may include whether a user is trusted or is of an approved status validity of specific user sessions whether the user account has been compromised in the past whether the user has overcome challenges length of time since the account was used resemblance to other account and other aspects relating to whether the user is a valid user of the online services system . For example a measure of validity for a user account is whether the account is indicative of a unique account for a real person according to one embodiment i.e. as opposed to an account for a fictitious name or one of multiple accounts for a single user set up for the purpose of games and the like associated with the online services system . The validity engine may measure these parameters and store result values to the confidence values store . Quality contribution parameters may include the frequency of user postings likes and or comments on others posts how often the users posts or comments are liked or commented on frequency at which the user s posts are shared or reposted whether comments are positive or negative in nature and or associated with an affinity group percentages of user content that is liked or commented on percentage of other users associated with the user who comment on the user s posts or comments and any other means for ascertaining whether the content contributed by the user is quality content. The quality engine may measure these parameters and store result values to the confidence values store .

The validity engine analyzes user accounts and activities pertaining to the validity of an account according to one embodiment based on interactions between approved users and non approved users within the online services system e.g. receiving accepting an invitations between the non approved user and approved users tagging a photo confirming a photo tag of the non approved user posting a message or poking the non approved user etc. .

The validity engine is configured to determine trust values and or flags for users which may be used for example to determine if the user is an approved user or a non approved user to determine a trust level for a non approved user and to determine whether to promote the non approved user to the status of approved user. For example the validity engine may assign different trust values to different interaction types and may increment or decrement the values based on the number of interactions with approved users the interactions themselves etc. The validity engine then can assign a trust level based on the trust values and may base approved user status on the trust level according to one embodiment e.g. for trust levels above a given threshold.

The validity engine also may issue challenges to users and may determine whether a challenge should be presented e.g. to confirm that the user is a human and the session is valid rather than a script or program running based on the user s response to the challenge. Whether to issue a challenge also may be based on the trust values or level. One form of challenge is a Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart CAPTCHA . A common type of CAPTCHA requires that the user respond to the challenge by typing the letters of a distorted image sometimes with the addition of an obscured sequence of letters or digits that appears on the screen. These CAPTCHAs are known to be easy to answer for a human and difficult to answer for a computer. An alternative form of CAPTCHA is a social CAPTCHA in which a security question is based on information about the user s connections or interactions in the online services system . For example a social CAPTCHA may be generated by ascertaining user connection information from the user connection store and asking the user to identify an image of one of the user s connections or friends in the online services system. The difficulty level of the social CAPTCHA may be adjusted based on a degree of suspicion associated with the session increasing the difficulty of the social CAPTCHA generally increases the difficulty for unauthorized people and not for the user.

According to one embodiment the validity engine also may verify the user via personal information. For example using a telephone number of a non approved user a message containing text audio images video etc. is sent to a device coupled to the telephone number. The validity engine receives a response from the non approved user and determines whether the response meets one or more predetermined criteria. Other forms of personal information may be received by the validity engine e.g. physical mailing address a trusted email address and so forth. In other embodiments the validity engine may use additional fewer or different account validity verification methods for various applications.

The quality engine analyzes user accounts and activities pertaining to the quality of a user s contributions in the online services system . The quality engine is used to predict future contribution quality by any given user according to one embodiment. The quality engine analyses operate on the assumption that certain actions are more or less indicative of quality contributions. For example a user for whom a very high percentage of status updates receive comments from at least five people is likely a user who contributes high quality content. A non exhaustive list of user activities and interactions that can be assessed to determine user contribution quality include the users direct contributions e.g. status updates comments on other user content pokes likes posted items re posting of other user s contributions etc. indirect assessment of user contributions based on other users behavior e.g. number of likes and or comments on user s contributions frequency of sharing re posting user s content number of messages sent related to the user contribution positive negative slant of other user comments etc. and qualitative assessment of user contributions e.g. percentage of user s posts that get at least one like or comment percent of user s contacts that like comment on user s posts frequency length type of user contributions levels of contributions e.g. comment like on a comment whether contribution are tied to an affinity group etc. .

The quality engine can determine the likely future quality of contributions by a user based on analysis of the past contributions by the user. The past contributions can be analyzed and various calculations can be made from the analysis.

In some embodiments a machine learning algorithm can be used. Various social data are input as signals and analyzed by the machine learning algorithm. The machine learning algorithm can be trained on a set of signals associated with social data from a user who has already been verified as contributing quality content. Once the machine learning algorithm has been trained on a known data set the algorithm can be used for determining whether other users are likely to contribute quality content. For example the machine learning algorithm can receive signals indicating implicit feedback from other users of the online services system . Implicit feedback as used herein is implicit in the sense that it is distinguished from explicit feedback e.g. where a user would provide explicit information about their perception of user quality e.g. in response to a survey regarding a user.

According to various embodiments the user contributions comprise text based contributions e.g. status updates and comments photographic materials e.g. images and videos links etc. and the interactions by other users of the online service include actions in response to the text based contributions photographic materials links etc. comments likes and reposts of the text based contributions viewing the photographic materials tagging a user in the photographic materials commenting on the photographic materials liking the photographic materials and reposting the photographic materials viewing the links commenting on the links liking the links and reposting the links. In addition the quality engine also may take into account known quality of other users interacting with the user s contributions.

From the analyzed actions the quality engine predicts the likelihood of future quality contributions by the user and determines confidence values based on individual quality parameters. Users having higher quality values are considered to be more valuable contributors of the online services system . In another embodiment the quality engine analyses are rules based.

The confidence parameter engine uses the confidence values provided by the validity engine and quality engine or from other sources to provide user confidence information to third parties such as data consumers via web server or API request server .

The confidence parameter engine may e.g. in conjunction with the API request server provide the confidence values to third parties such as data consumer for various uses by the same. This confidence information may be provided as the result of a request from the third party alone or in conjunction with other information about the user e.g. from the user profile store . In one embodiment the online services system may allow users to control whether the confidence information can be shared with third parties. In other embodiments users cannot control whether the confidence information is shared as the confidence information need not include any personal information about the user.

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the online services system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external data consumers or any entity that potentially can access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user profile information like profile photo phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like as stored in the various user stores . In one embodiment the information for potential sharing includes confidence information stored in the confidence values store as generated by the confidence parameter engine .

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users. For example the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all connections with other users friends of the user all friends of friends all applications all data consumers or all external systems. In one embodiment the specification of the set of entries comprises an enumeration of entities for example the user may provide a list of data consumers that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all data consumers to access the user s work information but specify a list of data consumers that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list. External systems such as data consumers belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Note that the various combinations of granularity of specification of information and the granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible i.e. all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends data consumers and or other applications and entities. For example an external data consumer that attempts to access a user s comment about a URL associated with the external data consumer must get authorization from the authorization server to access the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user an external data consumer an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user. For example the authorization server uses a users privacy setting to determine if the user s comment about a URL associated with the external data consumer can be accessed by the external data consumer . This enables a user s privacy setting to specify which other users or other entities are allowed to receive data about the user s actions or other data associated with the user.

Additionally the online services system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact using the online services system . To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the online services system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s profile. When a new object of a particular type is created the online services system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the online services system the online services system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user profile and begins to populate the fields of the user profile with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to data consumers or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting as described above to regulate access to information about the user.

The user action store stores information for each user based on actions extracted from the action log . The user action store includes data from the action log describing user actions and can include additional data from the user profile store and or connection store that is associated with or affected by the action to further annotate or tag the action data. The user action store can organize the action and related data chronologically allowing the user action store to record the sequence in which actions were performed by the user and allowing easier access to more recent user actions.

The confidence values store stores confidence evaluation parameter values received from the confidence measure engine validity engine and quality engine . The confidence values store may be accessed by external data consumers or other third parties commensurate with user s individual privacy policies.

The web server is connected to the authorization server to assure that data transmitted from the online services system to the network complies with user privacy settings when relevant to the provided data. The web server is connected to the user stores for providing user information for use in story generation by the news feed generator of the web server . The web server is connected to the action logger for providing communications about user actions on and or off the online services system . The web server is connected to the connection store for receiving user connection information for use in generation of news feeds or by external parties. Finally the web server is connected to the confidence parameter engine for receiving confidence information.

The API request server is connected to the authorization server to assure that any personal information transmitted from the online services system to the network complies with user privacy settings. The API request server is connected to the user profile store and confidence values store for receiving user profile and confidence information for use by external parties.

The confidence parameter engine is connected to the action log user profile store connection store and user action store for retrieval of social data for determining confidence values and is connected to the confidence values store for storing the confidence values. The social data received from the action log are received from the action logger . Finally the confidence parameter engine is connected to the authorization server to assure that any personal data to be transmitted from the online services system complies with user privacy settings.

The online services system provides user confidence information to a third party e.g. by way of an application programming interface. The confidence information helps the third party determine the legitimacy of the user without directly subjecting the user to security verification. The online services system receives a request for user information including confidence information e.g. from an external data consumer identifies from the request a user and provides to the external data consumer determined value of a confidence evaluation parameter for the user. Since the user has been verified by the online services system the external data consumer can use the verification in lieu of other security measures such as presenting CAPTCHAs or using email verification.

When a user initially becomes a user of the online services system the online services system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user profile and begins to populate the fields of the user profile with information provided by the user. As users such as the user via user device interact with the online services system social data such as use data contribution information and other information about interactions between users of the online services system is collected by the online services system . Interactions of users with each other s contributions in the online services system from the user also are received by the online services system. Only one user device is shown in for simplicity of illustration but the online services system tracks the interactions of multiple users of the system . The social data is stored by the online services system as described in greater detail herein.

Next the online services system determines one or more confidence evaluation parameter values from the social data. As described elsewhere herein confidence evaluation parameters may include measures of validity and of quality contributions. Confidence evaluation parameters associated with a measure of validity of a user account may include whether a user is trusted or is of an approved status validity of specific user sessions whether the user account has been compromised in the past whether the user has overcome challenges length of time since the account was used resemblance to other accounts and other aspects relating to whether the user is a valid user of the online services system . For example a measure of validity for a user account is whether the account is indicative of a unique account for a real person according to one embodiment i.e. as opposed to an account for a fictitious name or one of multiple accounts for a single user set up for the purpose of games and the like associated with the online services system . Confidence evaluation parameters also may be associated with a measure of quality of a user s contribution as described further in conjunction with

The online services system may determine the value of the confidence evaluation parameter in various ways according to different embodiments. For example a machine learning algorithm may be used in this example a machine learning algorithm is trained using historical data for the users of the online services system and the collected social data in input into the trained machine learning algorithm to obtain the confidence evaluation parameter value. Alternatively a rules based engine may be used that compares the social data for a user to a predetermined condition associated with the confidence evaluation parameter and the determined value is based upon whether the condition is satisfied. For example for the confidence evaluation parameter of whether the account have been verified via a challenge the condition may be correctly inputting the challenge CAPTCHA and the value for doing so may be yes or 1. In another embodiment the social data for the user is compared to established values of the confidence evaluation parameter and the determined value is selected from one of the established values. For example for the confidence evaluation parameter of whether the account has a history of being compromised the established values may be never once and multiple times and the determined value selected accordingly for zero times one time or greater than one time being compromised. In yet another embodiment social data for the user is compared to typical user data for the confidence evaluation parameter and the determined value for the user is based upon a degree of similarity to the typical user data. For example for the confidence evaluation parameter of whether the user provides quality status updates relative to other users the typical user data may show that one to five other users comment on most status updates by the user and the user value may be classified as low quality average less than one comment per status update average quality average 1 5 comments or high quality average over five comments .

The value of the confidence evaluation parameter for the user is stored by the online services system . The online services system includes a confidence parameter engine configured to determine the confidence evaluation parameters values for users of the system . As part of the determining process the confidence parameter engine can initiate actions to create additional user data such as presenting challenges to users e.g. to verify that the user is a human and not a script or machine. In one embodiment a validity engine and a quality engine determine confidence evaluation parameters for measurable aspects of user accounts and activities pertaining to the validity of an account and or the quality of a user s contributions respectively.

According to one embodiment a user connects to the external data consumer . For example the external data consumer may be a third party website and the user may be accessing the website and or requesting information from the website. The user connection may trigger the external data consumer to identify the user.

Next the external data consumer requests from the online services system confidence information associated with the user . The confidence information may be requested alone or in conjunction with a request for other information about the user such as user profile information or a list of the user s connections in the online services system . The external data consumer may or may not have information regarding whether the user is a user of the online services system . In case the external data consumer does not have information about whether the user is a user of the online services system the external data consumer may also request the status of the user in the online services system . If the external data consumer has the information that the user is a user of the online services system the external data consumer may request further information related to user from the online services system . According to one embodiment the external data consumer accesses the user information via an API request server e.g. of of the online services system which allows third parties to call one or more APIs and may also allow external data consumers e.g. in some embodiments external websites to send information to the online services system by calling the APIs. For example an external data consumer sends an API request to the online services system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external data consumer via the network .

As part of the request the external data consumer may present information associated with the user that helps the online services system identify the user as a user of the online services system . The information presented by the external data consumer for identifying the user may depend on previous communications between the external data consumer and the online services system regarding the user . For example if the external data consumer has previously communicated with the online services system regarding user the external data consumer may have a unique identifier associated with the user s profile which may then be used to uniquely identify the user. If this is the first request sent by the external data consumer to the online services system regarding the user the external data consumer may send information useful for identifying the user . In one embodiment the external data consumer may uniquely identify the user by sending information that it maintains for the user such as the user s full name email address home phone number date of birth or any other identifying information alone or in combination. In certain embodiments the external data consumer may compute a hash value based on information useful for identifying the user and send the hash value to the online services system . Use of a hash function on the user s unique information beneficially protects the user s privacy and generally enhances the security of the communications between the external data consumer and the online services system . In one embodiment the API server of the online services system may require inputs that identify the user as a user of the online services system e.g. using a user ID.

Based on the identification information provided with the request the online services system retrieves the confidence evaluation parameter value for the user . In one embodiment the steps including and leading up to the request take place at some time after the online services system has determined the confidence evaluation parameter value as indicated by a dashed wavy line between steps and . In another embodiment the determining step may occur as a result of the request and may replace the retrieval step .

Before transmitting the confidence value to the external data consumer a privacy policy for the user may be consulted if private user information is requested to determine whether the personal information can be shared. In some embodiments the privacy policy is not consulted e.g. if none of the requested data includes personal information for which privacy settings are used. The value for the confidence evaluation parameter then is provided to the external data consumer alone or in conjunction with other user information. The confidence information aids the external data consumer to determine the legitimacy of the user without directly subjecting the user to security verification. Since the user has been verified by the online services system the external data consumer can treat the user as verified without independent verification.

Turning now to using the online services system to determine the quality of a user s contributions to the online services system is a data flow diagram showing the flow of data between the internal elements of the online service system according to one embodiment.

As shown in a quality engine of the online services system orchestrates the data flow . The quality engine communicates with users via a web server across the network for receiving user contributions to the online services system publishing those contributions to the other users of the service and for recording interactions of user s with other user s contributions as implicit feedback about the contributing user. The quality engine gathers the implicit feedback from the user action store which feedback originated from users of the online services system . The user action store stores information for each user based on actions extracted from the action log . The user action store includes data from the action log describing user actions and can include additional data from the user profile store and or connection store that is associated with or affected by the action to further annotate or tag the action data.

The quality engine also determines a metric indicative of perceived contribution quality of a user s contributions based on the implicit feedback from other users of the online services system and stores the metric to the confidence values store . The implicit feedback may be based various factors as described herein including but not limited to According to various embodiments the user contributions comprise text based contributions e.g. status updates and comments photographic materials e.g. images and videos links etc. and the interactions by other users of the online service comprise actions in response to the text based contributions photographic materials links etc. comments likes and reposts of the text based contributions viewing the photographic materials tagging a user in the photographic materials commenting on the photographic materials liking the photographic materials and reposting the photographic materials viewing the links commenting on the links liking the links and reposting the links.

In one embodiment an optional additional metric may be determined. The additional metric is indicative of contribution quality based on attributes of the contributions themselves and may be added to calculation of the metric. Example attributes of the user s contributions that may serve as the basis for the third metric include average contributions per unit time e.g. day week average word count per contribution and the percentage of contributions that are text entries e.g. comments or other direct indicators of probable user contribution quality.

In use the primary metric may affect various aspects of the user s interactions with the online services system . For example if the metric indicative of perceived contribution quality is low e.g. below a predetermined threshold the quality engine may communicate to the authorization server to alter the user s desired privacy settings. For example if the user s privacy policy settings as set by the user indicate that the user s contributions e.g. status updates comments etc. are viewable by everyone the alteration of the privacy settings may include instead making the user s contributions viewable only to users interacting or otherwise connected to the user friends or keeping them private instead of exposing to everyone per the user s stated settings.

If the metric indicating confidence in the quality of the user s contributions is low or high e.g. below or above a predetermined threshold the quality engine may communicate to the web server news feed to alter the placement of contributions by the user in news feeds. The news feed generator for a user comprises one or more stories based on the content of the user stores associated with a particular user. The generated news feed stories can then be transmitted to one or more related users e.g. the user s friends allowing the user s actions to be shared with such related users. If the quality metric for a user is below a given threshold it can be assumed that the user does not provide quality contributions and the user s contributions can be displayed less prominently e.g. via position on the news feed page . On the contrary if the quality metric is high the user s contributions could take a higher prominence on the news feed page.

In one embodiment any alteration to the user s privacy settings and or prominence in news feeds may be communicated to the user e.g. via the web server across the network . In other embodiments the user is not notified of such changes.

The online services system uses past contribution quality data to predict future social network user contribution quality. User interactions with a user s contributions are monitored and logged and the actions are correlated with a contribution quality metric. The interactions may include the frequency of user postings likes and or comments on others posts how often the users posts or comments are liked or commented on frequency at which the user s posts are shared or reposted whether comments are positive or negative in nature and or associated with an affinity group percentages of user content that is liked or commented on percentage of other users associated with the user who comment on the user s posts or comments and any other means for ascertaining whether the content contributed by the user is quality content. In addition negative interactions also may be included in the quality determination e.g. a content item deleted by the context owner e.g. deleted wall post by another user mark as spam actions etc. The quality engine of the online services system determines the metric from other user interactions with user contributions thus providing implicit feedback about the quality of the user s contributions.

As part of the user s use of the online services system user contributions are received by the online services system and may be stored e.g. stored in a user action store . Contributions may include text based contributions such as status updates and comments either independent or related to other contributions e.g. a comment on a comment photographic materials such as videos and still photos and links to name a few. This list is meant to be exemplary but not limiting and any other types of user contributions to an online services system are within the scope of the invention. The user s contributions are published to other users of the online services system e.g. in the form of news feeds etc. as described herein.

Interactions of users with the contributions of other users are recorded by the online services system . Interactions may include e.g. actions in response to the text based contributions photographic materials links etc. comments likes and reposts of the text based contributions viewing the photographic materials tagging a user in the photographic materials commenting on the photographic materials liking the photographic materials and reposting the photographic materials viewing the links commenting on the links liking the links and reposting the links. The interactions by other users provide implicit feedback about the quality of the contributions.

The online services system determines from the interactions a metric indicative of perceived contribution quality of the user s contributions which is stored in the confidence values store . As part of this determination quality metrics for the other users from whom the implicit feedback is obtained is taken into account according to one embodiment. According to another embodiment an additional metric is determined indicative of quality of the user s contributions themselves based on an analysis of attributes of the user s contributions. For example the attributes considered may include average number of contributions by the user per unit time average word count of the contributions by the user average ratio of alphanumeric to non alphanumeric characters and percentage of the contributions by the user that are text based contributions.

The metric may be determined in a number of different ways. According to one embodiment a machine learning algorithm is used in which the algorithm is trained using historical data for users of the online services system and the recorded interactions are input into the trained machine learning algorithm to obtain the metric. In another embodiment a rules based model is used in which the recorded interactions with the user s contributions are compared to a set of rules indicative of perceived contribution quality to determine the metric. In another embodiment once the metric is determined it is compared to a known average perceived contribution quality value for the other users of the online services system.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

