---

title: Multi-bandgap semiconductor structures and methods for using them
abstract: Described herein are multi-segmented nanowires, nanosheets and nanobelts, and devices and methods using them for the generation of multicolor and white light.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09267076&OS=09267076&RS=09267076
owner: ARIZONA BOARD OF REGENTS, A BODY CORPORATE OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA ACTING FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY
number: 09267076
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase of International Application No. PCT US2013 031313 filed Mar. 14 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 636 942 filed Apr. 23 2012 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The invention was made with government support under W911NF 08 1 0471 awarded by the Army Research Office. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates generally to multi bandgap semiconductor structures and their use in light emitting devices such as multicolor and white lasers. The invention relates more particularly to nanowires nanobelts and nanosheets having multiple semiconductor compositions along one or more directions thereof and their use in the emission of light.

Alloying two semiconductors of different bandgaps generally results in a semiconductor of bandgap different from that of either original constituent. Varying the relative compositions of the two constituents will lead to the corresponding change in bandgap. This has long been one of the standard methods of achieving a bandgap and thus the operating wavelength of an optical device that is not provided by naturally occurring semiconductors. Unfortunately this method of achieving wavelength variability is severely limited by existing methods of growing planar epitaxial heterostructures of semiconductor thin films on a crystalline substrate. Such methods invariably require a close match of lattice constants of the substrate and the materials to be grown or a means of relieving the strain due to lattice mismatch . The very limited lattice constant mismatch required for growing high quality wafers has been the main obstacle of making semiconductor based optoelectronic devices such as lasers detectors multicolor detectors and solar cells with controllable and widely variable or tunable operating wavelengths. With the advent of nanowire based technology such restrictions are removed or are very much relaxed depending on the method of growth. For epitaxial growth of nanowires the relaxed requirement of lattice matching has led to the growth of materials with a mismatch as large as 8 . InP GaAs and other III V nanowires have been epitaxially grown on Si see Martensson et al. 4 1987 1990 2004 and InAs and InP nanowires have been grown into nanowire heterostructures see Bjork et al. 2 87 89 2002 despite large lattice mismatches. In addition nanowires can also be grown using an amorphous substrate as simply a mechanical support allowing alloy nanowire growth with a much larger range of composition variation than is possible with planar growth technologies.

Multicolor lasing and dynamic color tuning in a wide spectrum range are critically important in many areas of technology and daily life such as general lighting display multicolor detection and multi band communication. Multicolor laser sources have an extremely wide range of applications including color display general lighting biological detection holographic imaging and 3 D projection. Color display itself is important in many aspects of technology and daily life. One important advantage of multicolor lasers for color display is the more widely available color range or color gamut compared to the currently existing display technologies based on incoherent sources such as cathode ray tube CRT and organic light emitting diode OLED . The large spectral linewidth of incoherent light sources degrades the color purity and leads to a small color gamut. As coherent light sources multicolor lasers render high purity monochromic colors and thus can extend the color range significantly if proper wavelengths are chosen. For lighting and illumination applications the combination of four separate lasers with specifically selected wavelengths can achieve the large chromaticity range and similar color rendering ability as state of the art LEDs or phosphors even though lasers contain only a series of narrow emission lines. For many of the above applications that require high power output multicolor lasers offer great advantages due to the much higher wall plug efficiency than incoherent LED sources thus leading to greater energy efficiency. While the importance of multicolor lasers and dynamical color control has been well recognized for a long time the realization of such sources has been challenging due to several technology barriers.

Multicolor lasers that are necessary for all these critical applications mentioned above require color ranges with widely separated wavelengths or even across the entire visible spectrum. Such multicolor lasers are fundamentally different from multimode lasers. A multimode laser is conventionally made of a single semiconductor and relies on cavity structure to generate multiple lasing wavelengths corresponding to various cavity modes. Since these multiple modes are all supported by the same gain material their separation is limited within the gain bandwidth of a semiconductor typically in the range of 1 30 nm. Such a wavelength range is smaller than usually desired for display or lighting applications. Thus multicolor lasers require integration or monolithic growth of multiple gain materials or semiconductor alloys of different alloy compositions. This requirement poses a formidable challenge for traditional planar epitaxial technology due to the large degree of lattice mismatch typically involved. In addition to material challenges cavity design is also a crucial issue when multiple gain materials are involved in a single integrated structure. This is because the light emitted by the wide gap materials will be absorbed by the narrow gap materials. Thus lasing is typically achieved only in the longest wavelength of the structures.

Although various semiconductor alloy nanowires of different compositions have been achieved under separate growth conditions it is both challenging and important to achieve a full range composition variation within a single substrate in a single run of growth. To achieve fully tunable lasing within the entire composition range on a single substrate would be even more appealing and challenging.

Therefore there exists a need in the art to provide semiconductor compositions and structural assemblies which enable continuously tunable bandgap on a single substrate. Further methods for preparing the same which enable straightforward preparation of such semiconductor structures in a single step are needed in the art.

In one aspect the invention provides a semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet having a length the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet being formed from a II VI semiconductor material system a III V semiconductor material system or a IV VI semiconductor material system the composition of the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet varying along its length. In one embodiment the invention provides a semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet as described above that includes a plurality of linearly situated segments disposed along its length each segment having a different composition each segment having a different band gap the segments being arranged in order along the length of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet from smallest to largest band gap along the length of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of generating radiation the method including directing energy e.g. through optical pumping or electrical injection at a semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet as described herein at a first position thereof the energy being adapted to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position thereof. In certain embodiments the method further includes substantially simultaneously directing energy at the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet as described herein at a second position thereof the energy being adapted to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position thereof the second position being different than the first position the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the second position being different than the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position.

In another aspect the invention provides a light emitting device comprising a semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet as described herein. In certain embodiments the light emitting device includes a first energy source configured to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at a first position of the nanowire. In certain embodiments the light emitting device further includes a second energy source configured to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at a second position of the nanowire the second position being different than the first the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the second position being different than the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of generating radiation comprising directing energy as a pumping source e.g. through optical pumping or electrical injection at a semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet being formed from a II VI semiconductor material system a III V semiconductor material system or a IV VI semiconductor material system the composition of the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet varying along a dimension thereof the energy being directed at a first position of the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet the energy being adapted to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position thereof. In some embodiments the method further includes substantially simultaneously directing energy at the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at a second position thereof the energy being adapted to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position thereof the second position being different than the first position the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the second position being different than the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position.

In another aspect the invention provides a light emitting device comprising a semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet being formed from a II VI semiconductor material system a III V semiconductor material system or a IV VI semiconductor material system the composition of the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet varying along a dimension thereof. The light emitting device can further include a first energy source configured to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at a first position of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet and in some embodiments a second energy source configured to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at a second position of the nanowire the second position being different than the first the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the second position being different than the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position.

In another aspect a semiconductor nanowire or nanobelt formed from a II VI semiconductor material system a III V semiconductor material system or a IV VI semiconductor material system the composition of the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet varying along a dimension thereof wherein the bandgap emission wavelength of the semiconductor material at the first position is longer than the bandgap emission wavelength of the semiconductor material at the second position and wherein the second position is disposed in a loop.

One aspect of the invention relates to a semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet having a length the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet being formed from a II VI semiconductor material system a III V semiconductor material system or a IV VI semiconductor material system the composition of the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet varying along a dimension thereof e.g. length or in the case of nanobelt or a nanosheet width .

In one embodiment the invention provides a semiconductor nanowire having a length the semiconductor nanowire formed from a II VI semiconductor material system a III V semiconductor material system or a IV VI semiconductor material system the composition of the semiconductor nanowire varying along its length. The term nanowire as used herein means structures that have a lateral size of less than about 1000 nm e.g. about 1 100 nm or about 200 1000 nm and an unconstrained length. In certain embodiments the length is in the range of about 10 m to about 3000 m e.g. about 100 m to about 1500 m . For example nanowires can have an aspect ratio of 1000 or more.

In another embodiment the invention provides a semiconductor nanobelt the semiconductor nanobelt being formed from a II VI semiconductor material system a III V semiconductor material system or a IV VI semiconductor material system the composition of the semiconductor nanobelt varying along its length or across its width. The term nanobelt as used herein means structures that have a lateral size width in the range of 1 to 20 m the thickness less than 1000 nm and an unconstrained length. In certain embodiments the length is in the range of about 10 m to about 3000 m e.g. about 100 m to about 1500 m .

In another embodiment the invention provides a semiconductor nanosheet having a length the semiconductor nanosheet being formed from a II VI semiconductor material system a III V semiconductor material system or a IV VI semiconductor material system the composition of the semiconductor nanosheet varying along its length or across its width. The term nanosheet as used herein means structures that have a width in the range of about 20 m to about 3000 m e.g. 20 m to about 1500 m thickness less than 1000 nm and an unconstrained length. In certain embodiments the length is in the range of about 10 m to about 3000 m e.g. about 100 m to about 1500 m .

Herein a notation is used to refer to semiconductor material systems having the form of two sets of elements each within its own set of parenthesis for example ABCDEFGH. This notation means that the material system comprises at least one element selected from A B C and D and at least one element selected from E F G and H. Various compositions within the material system can have varying proportions of the elements of each set. When this notation is used in combination with the modifiers such as binary ternary quaternary quinary or senary among others it means that the semiconductor composition contains a total of 2 3 4 5 or even 6 elements respectively provided that at least one element selected from A B C and D and at least one element selected from E F G and H. Compositions having more than one element from a given set are known as alloys. For example both CdSSeand CdHgS among others are ternary alloys of the CdZnHgSSeTe material system.

In certain embodiments the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet is formed from a II VI semiconductor material system. Constituent elements of II VI semiconductor systems are selected from Groups IIA and IIB e.g Cd Zn Hg Mn and VIA e.g. S Se Te of the periodic table wherein at least one constituent element is selected from Groups IIA and or JIB of the periodic table and at least one constituent element is selected from Group VIA of the periodic table. Examples of suitably material systems include for example MnZnCdSSe ZnCdSSeTe ZnCdSSe and HgCdZnSSeTe. Examples of II VI compounds and alloys include but are not limited to a binary II VI compounds i.e. II VI compounds such as but not limited to cadmium selenide CdSe cadmium sulfide CdS cadmium telluride CdTe zinc oxide ZnO zinc selenide ZnSe zinc sulfide ZnS and zinc telluride ZnTe b ternary alloy such as but not limited to cadmium zinc telluride CdZnTe CZT mercury cadmium telluride HgCdTe mercury zinc telluride HgZnTe and mercury zinc selenide HgZnSe and c quaternary alloys such as but not limited to cadmium mercury selenide telluride CdHgSeTe and cadmium zinc selenide telluride CdZnSeTe . For example each segment can comprise an MnZnCdSSe compound or an ZnCdSSe compound such as CdS CdSe CdSSe CdZnTe ZnCdSSe or ZnMnSSe.

In other embodiments the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet is formed from a III V semiconductor material system. Constituent elements of III V semiconductor systems are selected from Groups IIIA e.g Al B Ga In and VA e.g. N P As Sb of the periodic table wherein at least one constituent element is selected from Group IIIA of the periodic table and at least one constituent element is selected from Group VA of the periodic table. Examples of suitable material systems include for example AlGaInAsP. Examples of III V compounds and alloys include but are not limited to a binary alloys such as but not limited to Aluminum antimonide AlSb Aluminum arsenide AlAs Aluminum nitride AlN Aluminum phosphide AlP Boron nitride BN Boron phosphide BP Boron arsenide BAs Gallium antimonide GaSb Gallium arsenide GaAs Gallium nitride GaN Gallium phosphide GaP Indium antimonide InSb Indium arsenide InAs Indium nitride InN and Indium phosphide InP b ternary alloys but not limited to Aluminum gallium arsenide AlGaAs Indium gallium arsenide InGaAs Aluminum indium arsenide AlInAs Aluminum indium antimonide AlInSb Gallium arsenide nitride GaAsN Gallium arsenide phosphide GaAsP Aluminum gallium nitride AlGaN Aluminum gallium phosphide AlGaP Indium gallium nitride InGaN Indium arsenide antimonide InAsSb and Indium gallium antimonide InGaSb c quaternary alloys such as but not limited to Aluminum gallium indium phosphide AlGaInP also InAlGaP InGaAlP AlInGaP Aluminum gallium arsenide phosphide AlGaAsP Indium gallium arsenide phosphide InGaAsP Aluminum indium arsenide phosphide AlInAsP Aluminum gallium arsenide nitride AlGaAsN Indium gallium arsenide nitride InGaAsN and Indium aluminum arsenide nitride InAlAsN and d quinary alloys such as but not limited to Gallium indium nitride arsenide antimonide GaInNAsSb . Higher order alloys include for example the senary alloy Indium gallium aluminum arsenide antimonide phosphide InGaAlAsSbP.

In other embodiments the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet is formed from a IV VI semiconductor material system. Constituent elements of IV VI semiconductor systems are selected from Groups IVA e.g Ge Sn Pb Tl and VIA e.g. S Se Te of the periodic table wherein at least one constituent element is selected from Group IVA of the periodic table and at least one constituent element is selected from Group VIA of the periodic table. Examples of suitably material systems include for example GeSnPbSSeTe. Examples of IV VI compounds and alloys include but are not limited to lead selenide lead telluride tin sulfide tin telluride lead tin telluride thallium tin telluride and thallium germanium telluride.

In certain embodiments the semiconductor materials are chosen such that the bandgaps of the various compositions of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet fall in the range of about 1.5 eV to about 4.5 eV. For example in one embodiment so that they can be useful in providing visible radiation the semiconductor materials are chosen such that the bandgaps of the various compositions of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet fall in the range of about 1.77 eV corresponding to 700 nm to about 3.1 eV corresponding to 400 nm . For example for a III V semiconductor material system InGaN can be selected to have a bandgap between about 2.0 and about 3.4 eV. In another example for a II VI semiconductor material system ZnCdSSecan be selected to have a bandgap between about 1.74 eV and about 3.54 eV. In another example of a II VI semiconductor material system CdZnTe can be selected to have a bandgap between about 1.4 eV and about 2.2 eV. The person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a variety of other materials can provide bandgaps in the range of about 1.77 eV to about 3.1 eV. In certain embodiments the difference in bandgap between at least two of the various compositions of the nanowire e.g. of adjacent segments is at least about 0.1 eV at least about 0.3 eV or even at least about 0.5 eV.

In certain aspects the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet is formed from a ZnCdSSe semiconductor material system. For example the various compositions of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet can have the formula ZnCdSSewherein x and y are each greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 1. In certain embodiments both x and y are greater than 0 and less than 1. In certain such embodiments x is about 0.001 to about 0.97. In certain embodiments x is about 0.005 to about 0.97. In certain such embodiments y is about 0.10 to about 0.95. In certain embodiments y is about 0.12 to about 0.95. In certain such embodiments y is about 0.14 to about 0.95. In certain embodiments y is about 0.10 to about 0.92. In certain such embodiments y is about 0.12 to about 0.92. In certain such embodiments y is about 0.14 to about 0.92. For example in certain embodiments x is about 0.001 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.10 to about 0.95. In other embodiments x is about 0.001 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.12 to about 0.95. In other embodiments x is about 0.001 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.14 to about 0.95. In other embodiments x is about 0.001 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.10 to about 0.92. In other embodiments x is about 0.001 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.12 to about 0.92. In other embodiments x is about 0.001 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.14 to about 0.92. In other embodiments x is about 0.005 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.10 to about 0.95. In other embodiments x is about 0.005 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.12 to about 0.95. In other embodiments x is about 0.005 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.14 to about 0.95. In other embodiments x is about 0.005 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.10 to about 0.92. In other embodiments x is about 0.005 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.12 to about 0.92. In other embodiments x is about 0.005 to about 0.97 and y is about 0.14 to about 0.92.

In another aspect the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet is formed from a CdSSe semiconductor material system. For example the various compositions of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet can have the formula CdSSewherein y is greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 1. In certain such embodiments y is about 0.10 to about 0.95. In certain embodiments y is about 0.12 to about 0.95. In certain such embodiments y is about 0.14 to about 0.95. In certain embodiments y is about 0.10 to about 0.92. In certain such embodiments y is about 0.12 to about 0.92. In certain such embodiments y is about 0.14 to about 0.92.

As described herein semiconductor nanowires nanobelts and nanosheets can be constructed with varying semiconductor compositions so that the bandgaps of the various materials are different as desired such that each semiconductor composition emits a different desired color upon absorption of energy corresponding to an absorption band of the semiconductor composition. The energy can be provided for example as optical radiation having a wavelength corresponding to an absorption band of the semiconductor composition or can be provided through electrical injection as is conventional in the art. Emitted light intensity corresponding to each semiconductor composition can be determined by for example the linear distance along the appropriate dimension of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet having the composition e.g. length or width and the pumping strength.

In certain aspects the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet is of a form comprising a plurality of linearly situated segments disposed along a dimension thereof each segment having a different composition each segment having a different band gap the segments being arranged in order along the dimension of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet from smallest to largest band gap. For example the semiconductor nanowire can include at least two linearly situated segments or even at least three linearly situated segments. In certain embodiments the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet can include 2 10 segments or 2 5 segments or two segments or three segments. In certain embodiments the multiple segments of different compositions can be situated across the width direction of a nanobelt or nanosheet rather than along the length direction.

Although in these embodiments the nanowires nanobelts and nanosheets are described as segmented the person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a transition region may exist between the segments in which the semiconductor composition varies from the composition of one segment to the composition of the next segment. Such transition regions are allowable. Such transition regions can in certain embodiments be atomically sharp within a nanometer or in other embodiments can be smooth over several microns. In certain embodiments any transition region of the nanowires nanosheet or nanobelts between segments is smaller in length than the wavelengths used in pumping and the wavelengths emitted by the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet. In other embodiments any transition region between the segments of the nanowire nanosheet or nanobelt is less than about 20 m less than about 10 m less than about 5 m less than about 2 m or less than about 1 m in length. In certain such embodiments any transition region is at least about 100 nm in length at least about 200 nm in length at least about 500 nm in length or even at least about 1 m in length. In certain embodiments a transition region is desirable in that the continuous change in material composition in the transition from one segment to the next enables high quality semiconductor materials to be grown due to the gradual composition change.

In certain embodiments as described herein each segment of the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet has a different linear measurement along the dimension e.g. a different length or in the case of a nanobelt or nanosheet a different width . Each segment can have in certain embodiments a linear measurement of about 10 m to about 500 m. For example for a nanowire having three segments a first segment can have a length between about 10 m and about 20 m a second segment can have a length between about 50 100 m and a third segment can have a length between about 200 500 m. Overall the nanowires nanobelts and nanosheets as described herein in certain embodiments can have a total linear measurement along the dimension i.e. accounting for all segments of the nanowire and any other part of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet not within the described segments between about 300 m and about 3000 m.

In certain embodiments of segmented semiconductor nanowires nanobelts or nanosheets as described herein each segment can be formed from an II VI semiconductor. For example each segment can be formed from the MnZnCdSSe semiconductor material system or the ZnCdSSeTe semiconductor material system or the ZnCdSSe semiconductor material system e.g. from compounds such as CdS CdSe CdSSe CdZnTe ZnCdSSe or ZnMnSSe. In another embodiment of any of the preceding each segment can be formed from a III V semiconductor. For example each segment can be formed from the AlInGaN semiconductor material system e.g. from compounds such as AlInGaN or InGaN. In another embodiment of any of the preceding each segment can be formed from a IV VI semiconductor. In certain embodiments of segmented semiconductor nanowires nanobelts or nanosheets as described herein each segment is of substantially uniform composition. However in other embodiments the composition of each segment can change somewhat over the length and or width of the segment. In certain embodiments the bandgap varies in each segment by less than about 0.1 eV at least about 0.3 eV or even at least about 0.5 eV. The person of ordinary skill in the art will determine pumping conditions and looping configurations for nanowires in which the segments have varying compositions.

In certain embodiments of segmented semiconductor nanowires nanobelts or nanosheets as described herein the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet can include two or three segments wherein each segment is formed from the ZnCdSSe material system. For example in one certain embodiment the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet can comprise two segments wherein the first segment is formed from CdS and the second segment is formed from CdSe. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire can comprise two segments wherein the first segment is formed from a compound of the formula CdSSeand the second segment is formed from a compound of the formula CdSSe wherein y and y are each greater than 0 and less than 1 and y and y are not the same. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet can include three segments wherein each segment is formed from a compound of the formula ZnCdSSe wherein x and y are each greater than equal to 0 and less than or equal to 1 and wherein the x value the y value or both the x and y value is different for each segment. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire can comprise two segments wherein the first segment has a band gap emission wavelength greater than or equal to 380 nm and less than or equal to 470 nm and the second segment has a band gap emission wavelength greater than or equal to 570 nm and less than or equal to 575 nm. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire can comprise three segments wherein the first segment has a band gap emission wavelength of about 470 nm and the second segment has a band gap emission wavelength of about 540 nm and the third segment has a band gap emission wavelength of about 640 nm. Of course the person of ordinary skill in the art

Materials as described herein can be made using the methods described below herein and variations of such methods. The person of skill in the art will also devise methods for making the materials described herein based on the current state of the art.

Another aspect of the invention is a semiconductor nanowire or nanobelt as described herein disposed such that a first sublength of the nanowire or nanobelt is configured in a loop and a second sublength of the nanowire or nanobelt is not looped. For example a first segment of the nanobelt or nanowire can be within the looped sublength of the nanowire or nanobelt and a different segment e.g. a second segment or a third segment of the nanowire or nanobelt can be within the straight sublength of the nanowire or nanobelt. For example in one embodiment at least one segment of the nanowire or nanobelt is disposed in a loop and at least one segment of the nanowire or nanobelt is not looped. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire or nanobelt has two segments wherein each segment of the nanowire or nanobelt is not looped. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire or nanobelt has three segments wherein each segment of the nanowire or nanobelt is not looped. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire or nanobelt has two segments wherein one segment of the nanowire or nanobelt is disposed in a loop and one segment of the nanowire or nanobelt is not looped. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire or nanobelt has three segments wherein two segments of the nanowire or nanobelt are disposed in a loop i.e. each in a separate loop and one segment of the nanowire or nanobelt is not looped. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire or nanobelt has three segments wherein two segments of the nanowire or nanobelt are disposed in a loop i.e. each in a separate loop and one segment of the nanowire or nanobelt is not looped wherein the two looped segments are adjacent segments.

For example is a schematic view of a nanowire having two segments R and R each having a different semiconductor composition. Each segment can be formed from for example a II VI semiconductor compound or a III V semiconductor compound. In one particular embodiment segments R and R are respectively formed from CdSe and CdS. As will be described in further detail below a two segment nanowire can be used to generate emitted radiation at two different wavelengths

Segmented nanowire nanosheet and nanobelt structures as described herein can provide access to a variety of wavelength ranges and combinations. Moreover for use in generation of emission as described herein the nanowire nanobelt and nanosheet structures are advantaged in that they not only act as gain absorbing materials but they also provide channels for electrical conductance and waveguiding structures for optical waveguiding. Thus the segments of the nanowires nanobelts and nanosheets described herein can themselves form laser cavities.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for generating radiation using the nanowires nanobelts and nanosheets as described herein. The method includes directing energy at a semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet as described herein at a first position thereof for example in a first segment thereof the energy being adapted to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position thereof. As the person of skill in the art will appreciate to pump a semiconductor material is to direct energy at it so that the semiconductor material absorbs the energy and luminesces. As will be familiar to the person of skill in the art pumping can be performed optically by illuminating the material with optical radiation at a pump wavelength for the material or electrically by electrical injection. As such techniques are well known to the person of skill in the art they are not described in detail here.

Accordingly another aspect of the invention relates to a light emitting device including a semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet as described herein. For example one embodiment of a light emitting device includes a semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet as described herein and a first energy source configured to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at a first position for example in a first segment thereof of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet.

In certain embodiments the method includes substantially simultaneously directing energy at the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet as described herein at a second position thereof for example in a second segment thereof the energy being adapted to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the second position thereof the second position being different than the first position the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the second position being different than the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position thereof. Thus in certain embodiments a light emitting device includes a second energy source configured to pump the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at a second position of the nanowire the second position being different than the first the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the second position being different than the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at the first position.

In the methods and devices as described herein energy can be for example provided in the form of optical radiation having a wavelength corresponding to an absorption band of a semiconductor material of the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet. Optical radiation can be provided for example by one or more light sources each configured to provide optical radiation having a wavelength corresponding to an absorption band of a semiconductor material of the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet. The optical source can be for example a diode laser. In certain embodiments optical elements such as lenses and mirrors can be used to direct the light e.g. with focusing onto the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet. The person of skill in the art will understand how to configure optical sources to illuminate the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet.

In other embodiments energy can be provided in the form of electrical energy as is commonly done in semiconductor lasers. For example the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet can be configured as part of a diode structure for use in a laser and pumped electrically. While various configurations for electrical pumping are described herein the person of skill in the art will arrive at other configurations based on the particular materials used.

In certain embodiments of the methods and devices described herein the bandgap emission wavelength of the first segment is longer than the bandgap emission wavelength of the second segment. In certain such embodiments the second segment is looped. As will be described in further detail below a looped segment design can help to reduce the loss of the short wavelength segment increasing the chance of lasing of short wavelength radiation.

One embodiment of a light emitting device according to the invention is shown in partial schematic view in . Optical device includes a nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet as described herein indicated by reference numeral . The device further includes one or more energy sources configured to pump the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet. In this example the device includes a first energy source in this embodiment a light source such as a laser configured to pump the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet with energy corresponding to an absorption band of the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at a first position of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet here in the first segment R . Device also includes a second energy source in this embodiment a light source such as a laser configured to pump the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet with energy corresponding to an absorption band of the semiconductor material of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet at a second position of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet here in the second segment R . Here the second position is different than the first position.

While shows the two light sources and as illuminating spatially separate positions on the nanosheet the person of skill in the art will appreciate that other optical pumping schemes can be used. For example multiple optical sources or a single tunable optical source can be configured to illuminate multiple segments of a segmented nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet since each segment will be pumped only by certain wavelengths segments can be pumped individually or in combination by selecting the wavelength s of pump radiation individually or in combination.

In certain embodiments the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet is disposed on a substrate. The substrate can be of a size and composition suitable for the intended purpose. In certain examples the substrate comprises Si SiOor other materials including but not limited to compound semiconductors. Such substrates can be n or p doped as is familiar to those skilled in the art and can be selected in view of the overall architecture of the device the pumping scheme used and the particular semiconductor materials of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet. In one embodiment the substrate comprises SiO. Desirably the substrate is of lower refractive index than the materials of the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet. The nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet can be disposed on the substrate in any convenient fashion. For example in the embodiment shown in schematic view in the nanosheet is disposed horizontally on a substrate . In the embodiment shown in partial schematic view in the looped nanowire can be disposed horizontally on a substrate or vertically on a substrate supported by other materials such as a polymer e.g. polyimide with laser sources and configured to pump segments R and R respectively.

Another embodiment of a light emitting device is shown in partial schematic view in . In this embodiment the light emitting device is configured to be electrically pumped. Nanosheet is disposed horizontally on a p doped substrate such that each segment R R of the nanosheet is in contact with the substrate. Individual n doped contacts are in electrical contact with the respective segments R R of the nanosheet. Accordingly each segment can be pumped independently of the other. The person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other semiconductor diode designs can be used with the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet as an active material.

Another embodiment of a light emitting device is shown in partial schematic view in . The device includes a nanowires nanobelts or nanosheets with each segment thereof including a p i n multilayered structure. The layers at the junctions between two adjacent segments have the same doping type i.e. each is n doped or each is p doped . The term p doped as used herein means atoms have been added to the material to increase the number of free positive charge carriers. The term n doped as used herein means atoms have been added to the material to increase the number of free negative charge carriers. The i portion of the p i n structure refers to an intrinsic semiconductor which as used herein means a semiconductor material in which the concentration of charge carriers is characteristic of the material itself rather than the content of impurities or dopants . In the embodiment shown in the nanowire is disposed vertically. In such embodiments doping can be realized by adding different dopants at different stages of the material growth process as would be understood by the person of ordinary skill in the art. Such light emitting devices can be pumped by electrical injection using methods familiar to the person of ordinary skill in the art.

While the embodiments above have been described with respect to a single nanowire nanosheet or nanobelt the person of skill in the art will appreciate that a device or method as described herein can include a plurality of semiconductor nanowires nanosheets or nanobelts each configured as described herein. In certain embodiments the plurality of semiconductor nanowires nanosheets or nanobelts do not contact one another. Of course in other embodiments the plurality of semiconductor nanowires nanosheets or nanobelts can be in contact with one another. In certain embodiments the device or method as described herein uses at least three at least ten or even at least 50 individual nanowires nanosheets or nanobelts. As an example device with 100 semiconductor nanowires nanosheets or nanobelts can be configured to deliver laser output of multiple mW and even on the order of 10 mW. Multi element structures can be made using manual placement and looping procedures as appropriate. In certain embodiments template assisted placement techniques can be used to produce multi element structures.

As the nanowires nanobelts and nanosheets described herein include a plurality of different segments each having a different bandgap the different segments can be individually pumped to give different combinations of emission wavelengths. Thus dynamic control of the color s of light emitted by the devices and methods described herein can be obtained through selection of pumping energies and powers. For example in optical pumping schemes a light source can be selected to selectively excite e.g. optically pump one of the segments of the nanowires. Where more than two light sources are present each light source can be selected to independently and selectively excite e.g. optically pump separate segments of the nanowires. In other embodiments dynamic control of colors emitted by the light emitting devices can be obtained through individually addressed electrical injection of each segment.

As described in more detail below the orientation of the nanowire can also be used to control the output of the light emitting devices. In one embodiment at least one segment of the nanowire is looped and at least one segment of the nanowire is not looped. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire has two segments wherein each segment of the nanowire is not looped. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire has three segments wherein each segment of the nanowire is not looped. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire has two segments wherein one segment of the nanowire is looped and one segment of the nanowire is not looped. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire has three segments wherein two segments of the nanowire are looped and one segment of the nanowire is not looped. In another embodiment the semiconductor nanowire has three segments wherein two segments of the nanowire are looped and one segment of the nanowire is not looped wherein the two looped segments are adjacent segments.

Accordingly in one embodiment a method as described herein includes directing energy at one or more segments of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet to provide a first emission profile i.e. the relative wavelength characteristics of the emitted radiation then directing energy at one or more segments of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet to provide a second emission profile different from the first. In another embodiment a method as described herein includes selecting a desired emission profile then directing energy at one or more segments of semiconductor nanowires nanosheets or nanobelts to provide the selected emission profile. Thus a single nanowire can provide for a tunable emission profile which depends on the relative amounts of energy directed at different segments of the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet.

For example multicolor light emission can be obtained from three segment nanowires nanobelts or nanosheets by selection of the bandgap of each segment. In certain examples three segment straight nanowire can be used in LED operation. The three segments can be for example formed from ZnCdSSe with x and or y being different for each segment. As the person of skill in the art will appreciate the desired semiconductor compositions of the segments e.g. values of x and y for the three segments described above can be determined experimentally. The desired compositions e.g. values of x and y may also depend on other factors such as the length of each of the three segments. In certain embodiments nanowires nanobelts or nanosheets can include three straight segments e.g. each forming a laser cavity in a single nanowire nanosheet or nanobelt. In another embodiment nanowires or nanobelts can include two segments each configured in a loop e.g. each providing a laser cavity and one straight segment e.g. forming a laser cavity . Notably the person of skill can adapt the three segment structures to provide white light e.g. by selecting appropriate semiconductor materials and relative pumping powers among the three segments.

In another example multicolor lasers can be obtained from two segment nanowires nanobelts or nanosheets. In one embodiment a nanowire or nanobelt can include one segment in a loop e.g. to form one laser cavity and one straight segment e.g. to form another laser cavity interconnected through the nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet. As described in more detail below this configuration can have certain advantages with respect to dual color lasing. In another embodiment a nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet can include two straight segment configured as coupled cavities within a single nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet.

One exemplary design for a light emitting device is shown in schematic view in . The nanowire nanosheet or nanobelt has three segments R R and R each having a different composition e.g. of the composition ZnCdSSe each of the different compositions having a bandgap emission wavelength in a different visible color range e.g. blue green yellow red . For example in one embodiment segment R has a bandgap emission wavelength of 700 nm segment R has a bandgap emission wavelength of 540 nm and segment R has a bandgap emission wavelength of 470 nm. Light sources are configured to pump the individual segments R R R as described above. In the embodiment of the semiconductor structure extends vertically from the substrate which has a lower refractive index than the semiconductor material and therefore can act as a reflector. In other embodiments one or more reflectors e.g. in multilayer thin film form are disposed on the ends of the semiconductor nanowire nanosheet or nanobelt to provide the reflectance desired to form a laser cavity. Of course in certain embodiments the index contrast between the semiconductor nanowire nanobelt or nanosheet and the surrounding materials e.g. substrate environment can provide sufficient reflectance.

In one particular aspect of the invention a novel combination of gain materials and cavity design can be used to provide room temperature lasing of two visible colors here red and green from a single CdSSe nanowire. The wavelength separation of 107 nm between the two emitted colors is much larger than the gain spectra bandwidth limitation of typical semiconductor materials. Moreover as described above the overall color of the device output can be controlled dynamically between the two fundamental colors by changing the relative pumping strength of the two segments. This can allow the laser generation of any color between the two fundamental colors according to the color map of International Commission on Illumination CIE . The composition along the nanowire varies with the bandgaps of the terminal segments varying enough from one to generate the two distinct colors. Moreover the gradual composition change in the transition region between the two terminal segments helps to assure acceptable quality of the crystal structure of the semiconductor materials.

By looping the larger bandgap end of the nanowire two relatively isolated or weakly coupled cavities are created reducing the absorption of the short wavelength light in the smaller bandgap section and allowing both segments cavities to lase simultaneously. This way two of the fundamental challenges i.e. material and cavity structure encountered in multicolor lasing are addressed simultaneously.

One embodiment is shown schematically in . is a schematic view of a straight CdSSe nanowire with first segment R and second segment R separated by a transition zone T. The nanowire can be made for example as described in Gu et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 133 2037 39 2011 . The person of skill in the art will appreciate that there may not be a sharp transition between the composition of segment R and the transition zone T in the neighborhood of segment R and that there may not be a sharp transition between the composition of segment R and the transition zone T in the neighborhood of segment R. The variation in shading along the nanowire represents the continuously changing composition. The sulfur composition x of a CdSSecomposition can be changed from 1 at one end to 0 at the other end resulting in a color variation of bandgap emission from green to red along the nanowire as shown in . Accordingly the bandgap of segment R corresponds to red light and the bandgap of segment R corresponds to green light. In certain embodiments such a nanowire may lase at different colors simultaneously since it contains different gain materials for different colors in one cavity. However in certain configurations the straight nanowire can only support red lasing due to the strong absorption of green light by the red segment. Because the wide gap CdS rich segment is transparent to the red light emitted by the CdSe rich part red light can easily reach the threshold and start lasing. However the shorter wavelength emission from the CdS rich section will experience a strong absorption in the narrower gap CdSe rich section thus green lasing becomes nearly impossible without an extremely long segment.

In order to achieve simultaneous lasing at both long and short wavelengths it can be advantageous to well confine light emitted from the wide gap semiconductor material within its own segment. One convenient and preferred way to create distinct cavities in a single nanowire or nanobelt structure is to loop the wide gap section to form a relatively isolated cavity for the longer wavelength light. is a schematic view of a looped nanowire. The junction coupling efficiency of such a ring cavity is very high providing strong feedback for the longer wavelength emission and reducing the strong absorption in the narrower gap segment here R . As a result the longer wavelength mode can oscillate in the ring cavity with sufficiently high gain and sufficiently low loss to achieve lasing. At the same time the red emission from the narrow gap segment can still propagate in the entire nanowire with a cavity defined by the two end facets of the nanowire.

The use of a looped cavity design as described herein can enable the active tuning of the output color as the shorter wavelength light is not completely absorbed by the narrow gap segment of the nanowire. Thus as described above the looped segment can be pumped independently from the straight segment e.g. by illuminating them with different optical power allowing for the control of the emission profile by controlling relative intensities of emission between the two segments. Accordingly the overall output can be continuously varied from the shorter wavelength emission e.g. green in this example to the longer wavelength emission e.g. red in this example corresponding to the relative pumping powers of the two segments as shown schematically in .

The confocal PL measurement in demonstrates the output position of the two color lasing. By inserting a pinhole into the image plane emission spectra only from an area less than 5 m were collected at both the loop junction and the CdSe rich end facet positions a and b in respectively . The spectrum at the junction shows both green and red lasing peaks while the spectrum at CdSe rich end only exhibits longer wavelength lasing consistent with the previous discussions. Because of the spatial filtering effect of the confocal system the relative intensity of the green peaks is stronger than that obtained with a large collection area in . The linewidth of a single lasing peak at 526 nm is 0.9 nm limited by the resolution of the spectrometer. The longitudinal mode spacing is 1.1 nm. Using the approximate expression of the wavelength separation for a ring cavity Ln where L 47 m is the length of the loop a group index nof 5.4 for the green mode was obtained.

As noted above for the two color lasing experiment performed individual nanowires were first picked up from the substrate on which they were grown and then transferred to a new clean glass substrate using a custom pulled tapered fiber. In such an operation it is possible that multiple nanowires are transferred or debris is transferred along with the nanowire. Due to the relative large size of the excitation spot of the pumping laser it is sometimes possible that multiple nanowires are excited or that debris is excited along with the nanowire. When the other nanowire s or debris has a different composition than the nanowire under test multiple lasing peaks might be observed due to the different materials present. Moreover even a single long nanowire could be broken into pieces of different compositions at high enough optical pumping. Different pieces could form laser cavities thus lasing at different wavelengths. In the experiments described herein the looped nanowire was examined by SEM imaging after the lasing experiment to ensure only one nanowire was within the laser spot the wire has not been broken into segments and the contact junction of the loop remained intact. shows the SEM image of the looped wire after the lasing experiment that produced two color lasing shown in . The inset on the top left is a zoom in of the loop part which forms the cavity for the green color lasing. The inset on the bottom right is a zoom in showing a small particle attached to the nanowire causing scattering seen in . As is evident one end of the nanowire remained as a closed loop with 15 m in diameter similar to the initial looped structure before the lasing experiment. The contact angle of this loop is somewhat large but still provides enough feedback into the loop cavity. The total length of this nanowire is about 200 m and its diameter is 450 nm. The entire nanowire remains intact after looping and lasing experiment and no breaking point was observed. Such SEM examination together with mode analysis allows to conclude that our dual color lasing is from a single looped nanowire structure. Moreover the red emission point in is due to the scattering of the red lasing mode by a small defect on the straight part of the nanowire.

Regarding the gain spectra of the composition graded nanowire and nanowire loop Typically only single color lasing has been achieved in both single composition nanowire and heterostructure nanowires. As described above with respect to the straight composition graded nanowire can only achieve single color lasing due to the absorption of the short wavelengths by the narrow gap segments. In order to understand this more quantitatively the analysis of the optical gain spectra is necessary. The total optical gain of the composition graded NW can be given by the following equation 

The calculated optical gain spectra are shown in in which the dashed line is for a pure CdS nanowire the dotted line is for a pure CdSe nanowire the solid line is for a composition graded CdSSe nanowire and the dot dashed line is for a CdS rich nanowire loop. The dash line and the dotted curves represent the gain spectra of a pure CdS and CdSe nanowire with the same length of 200 m respectively. The gain spectrum of the composition graded nanowire is shown in the solid curve. Such a gain curve can be understood as follows First although the peak gain of CdS at the green wavelength can be over 5000 cmwhen excitation is high enough the optical loss of CdSe at the green wavelength is even larger typically over 10000 cm . Such a large absorption would deplete the gain completely in the green wavelength. On the other hand due to the red shift of the gain curve as Se composition increases the total gain curve is flattened so that the gain spectra of the composition graded nanowire is much broader with a smaller peak value than that of a nanowire with a single composition. When the CdS rich end of the composition graded nanowire is looped the optical gain spectrum of the loop has contributions only from the segment that forms the loop if the weak leakage from the loop junction into the straight part of the nanowire is ignored. Depending on the size of the loop the peak position of the gain spectrum can vary. shows the peak wavelength of the gain spectra as a function of the emission wavelength at the point where the wide gap end touches the nanowire. For example if the nanowire is looped to where the emission wavelength is 546 nm corresponding to the length of 50 microns from the wide gap end the gain spectrum of the loop has a peak gain at 519 nm as shown in the green curve in . In this case the looped cavity and the entire nanowire cavity reach maximum gain at 519 nm and 642 nm respectively. The wavelength separation is 123 nm close to the wavelength separation of 107 nm in our measurement of the two color nanowire laser where the total length and the length of the loop are also around 200 m and 50 m respectively .

In fact a nanowire consisting of two segments with different but constant composition in each is better for achieving dual color lasing if the shorter wavelength end is looped. In theory lasing wavelength separation of 200 nm is achievable if a pure CdS segment and a CdSe segment can be grown together to form a single nanowire. The nanowire of can be configured with three segments R pure CdSe T continuously graded CdSeS from pure CdSe to pure CdS and R pure CdS. The short T segment allows a gradual lattice mismatch relief and can act as a buffer layer between the two single composition CdS and CdSe segment allowing high quality growth of all materials. In the configuration of there are can be two weakly coupled cavities the looped one with pure CdS as gain material and a straight cavity with mostly CdSe as gain material and a small segment of ternary alloy as transparent material . The gain spectrum for this looped CdS cavity is shown by the dashed line in . Here the length of both R and R are taken as 50 m and T is 1 m. The solid curve represents the average gain of the entire nanowire. The optical gain for the straight part of the CdSe is shown as the dotted line. In this case a single nanowire looped structure can support a dual wavelength lasing simultaneously at 500 nm and 700 nm providing with about 200 nm wavelength separation. This would allow a dynamic color variation within a 200 nm range. Besides that the average gain curve of the entire nanowire at the red color wavelength range does not change much with varying the length of T. shows average gain of the entire nanowire for different buffer segment length of 1 3 5 and 10 m demonstrating that the optical gain only decrease slightly when the length of T is increased from 1 m to 10 m. This is because that T is much shorter than the total length of the nanowire 100 m and it does not contribute too much into the gain curve in the red color range. Thus the red color lasing wavelength would be independent on the length of the transition segment. Such flexibility in the transition segment length would further help us to realize two color lasing with large wavelength separation from the nanowire of .

One advantageous property of the looped nanowire nanobelt laser design described herein is the common output position for two color lasing. Unlike RGB lasers and many other multicolor lasers the dual color light emitting devices described herein do not require external guiding to mix the multicolor lasing beams. More importantly this feature allows color tunable output via pumping the straight and looped segments separately as described above and as indicated in . For example a beam splitter can be used to split the excitation laser into two beams for pumping the CdSe rich straight part and CdS rich loop separately. Neutral density filters can be applied after the beam splitter to precisely control the incident power of two excitation beams. Of course the person of skill in the art will appreciate that there are other ways to provide different intensities of pump radiation to the different segments.

In another embodiment green red dual color lasing with maximum wavelength separation of 110 nm 0.42 eV can be achieved in a single spatial bandgap engineered CdSSealloy nanowire. The alloy composition changes spatially along the growth direction of the single nanowire resulting in a bandgap changing from 2.44 eV to 1.72 eV within one single nanowire. Such a nanowire can supply optical gain for both green and red lasing. By looping the segment with the large bandgap CdS dominated which emits green color light of the nanowire two individual cavities are formed within one nanowire a looped circle cavity for confining the green CdS dominated the original wire cavity for confining the red CdSe dominated emission. Dual color lasing was observed at the end face of the wire loop when the entire nanowire was optically pumped by a laser beam. Dynamic color control of the output lasing can be achieved by adjusting the relative intensity of two lasing modes through two pumping laser beams which independently pump each individual cavity. The continuous tunability of lasing color from green to yellow to red in a single nanowire device was observed. The approach has great potential in lasing display and white lasing lighting.

In another embodiment a CdSSe nanosheet is used as the gain medium. An example of such a nanosheet is shown in side cross sectional view in as described above. In one example the CdSSe laterally segmented nanosheets i.e. heterostructure nanosheets were grown through a chemical vapor deposition CVD approach using CdS and CdSe powders Alfa Aesar 99.99 purity as source materials. A Si substrate with 10 nm Au film as catalyst was used for the growth. The reactor was first evacuated to a pressure below 0.2 Torr by a mechanical pump. 150 sccm Nwas then introduced into the system and flow was maintained for 30 min prior to growth. In the first step of the growth only CdS powder was thermally evaporated at 880 C. for 1 hour. Subsequently CdSe source was introduced into the furnace while the temperature was gradually lowered to 840 C. and held for 40 min to grow the CdSe rich sections. The growth processes are similar to that Kim Y. L. et al. CdS CdSe lateral heterostructure nanobelts by a two step physical vapor transport method Nanotechnology 2010 21 145602 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety the presently described process reverses the growth sequence from CdSe CdS to CdS CdSe. Such sequential growth ensures a wide CdS rich center section surrounded by CdSe rich edges see . The large width of CdS rich sections is especially significant as it needs to be wide enough to achieve sufficient optical confinement for the shorter wavelength lasing modes. shows the transmission electron microscopy TEM image of a CdSSe laterally segmented nanosheet. The image was collected with a JEOL JEM 2010 High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscope at 200 kV equipped with a Link energy dispersive X ray spectroscopy EDS detector. The nanosheet of has width of 11.2 m and length of 41.4 m. shows the real color photoluminescence PL image of the heterostructure nanosheet under 405 nm continuous wave CW laser excitation. The scale bars in are 10 m. As seen in the image the nanosheet consists of three stripes with green in color emission in the center grown initially with CdS rich composition and red orange in color emission on both edges grown subsequently with CdSe rich composition . The green stripe and the wider red orange stripe on the right side of form two rectangular coupled cavities in a side by side arrangement. With proper end facets the three stripes can form three coupled cavities capable of supporting various propagating modes along the length direction. Of particular interest are the two wider stripes the green one in the center and the red orange one on the right side which form two rectangular coupled cavities in a side by side arrangement as also schematically shown in . Detailed characterization of the composition and interface of the nanosheet was achieved by an EDS line scan across the nanosheet as indicated by the white dashed line in .

Micro PL scan measurements were performed on the same nanosheet. The 405 nm excitation laser beam was focused down to a spot size less than 2 m and was scanned across the width of the nanosheet to excite light emission from different points along the sample. The photoluminescence peak positions vary abruptly from green emission at 559 nm to orange emission at 602 nm at the location corresponding to the interface between stripes as identified by EDS i.e. at a position of about 9.2 m in . Moreover the sulfur molar fraction of the CdSSecomposition can also be extracted from the wavelength of the PL peaks by band gap interpolation between the two binary endpoints CdS and CdSe CdSSe CdS 1 CdSe Because of the relaxations of the effective strain resulting from the single crystallinity of the nanosheet the calculation neglects any the bowing effects. The filled squares plotted in show the sulfur molar fraction calculated from the micro PL scan measurement as described. The composition values are consistent between EDS and micro PL scans.

From the simulation the first three modes with high gain are selected for each wavelength and are displayed in . shows the cross section of a nanosheet in the thickness width plane. The propagation direction is perpendicular to the paper plane. A is the schematic plot of the nanosheet cross section. The green left and red right rectangles represent the CdS rich 14.8 m width and CdSe rich segments 2.6 m width respectively. The thickness is 200 nm. B D are the first three modes at 534 nm. E G are the first three modes at 592 nm. The amplitude of the electric fields of high gain modes at 534 nm and 592 nm are shown in and respectively. For both wavelengths the high gain modes are well confined in their respective active regions CdS rich segment for 534 nm left in and CdSe rich segment for 592 nm right in . It can be useful to determine the confinement factor defined as the ration of the modal gain to the material gain it can be significantly large in nanowires and nanobelts. The confinement factors for all of these modes are slightly larger than unity at 1.03. In general modes of both wavelengths can be confined in either the CdS rich or CdSe rich segment due to the contrast between the refractive indices. However only the modes in appropriate gain medium with wavelength inside the gain bandwidth have the possibility to lase. As a result high gain modes at 534 nm or 592 nm can only lase in the CdS rich or CdSe rich active regions. The refractive index contrast and the gain selection ensure that the modes of both wavelengths are confined within their respective gain media without much leakage to the lossy regions. This is especially important for the green modes so that they will not be subject to strong absorption by the narrow gap material of the CdSe rich side. The simulation provides further evidence that the CdSSe heterostructure nanosheet provides an appropriate structure to support dual wavelength lasing in a single structure.

The light in light out relations are presented in on both linear and log log scales to corroborate the spectral features and to further establish the lasing behavior at two distinct wavelengths. shows output intensities of the two lasing colors versus pumping power density at 77 K. The inset also shows the saturation of spontaneous emission triangles . Shown in the inset of the lasing intensity of both colors increase linearly with pump power after threshold 260 kW cmfor the green modes and 230 kW cmfor the orange modes . The total spontaneous emission output increases much more slowly than the lasing modes in the high excitation region demonstrating the typical behavior associated with the lasing threshold. The log log scale of the lasing output as a function of the excitation power features the well known S like behavior with three significantly different regions. At low pumping the spontaneous emission is dominant so the mode intensities increase linearly with a slope of 1.1 for orange and 1.3 for green. Around the thresholds the output intensities of both lasing modes show superlinear increases with slopes of 5.1 for orange and 4.7 for green. With further increase of the excitation power the slopes of both curves return to 1.1 indicating the above threshold lasing operation of both colors. The dependence of total intensity on pumping displays a typical threshold behavior of multimode lasing.

In another embodiment room temperature RT lasing has also been achieved on a larger nanosheet 66.5 m in length 33.0 m in width and 200 nm in thickness . is a real color PL image of the nanosheet at RT under low pumping power density. The scale bar is 10 m. As shown in the widths of the green gr and the wider orange o stripes are around 30 m and 3 m respectively. The real color lasing image under 667 kW cmillumination and PL spectra evolution at increasing power densities of 114 184 257 310 and 546 kW cmfrom bottom to top are shown in respectively. The lasing wavelengths of the orange and green peaks are 613 nm and 562 nm respectively with a wavelength separation of 51 nm. The estimated threshold is 300 kW cmfor the green modes and 227 kW cmfor the orange modes. The lasing sequence for the two colors at RT is consistent with the result at 77K both exhibiting higher thresholds for the green modes than for the orange modes. Other features are also similar.

As described herein by mixing shorter and longer wavelength colors such as green and red intermediate colors such as yellow green yellow and orange etc. can be produced. shows the CIE 1931 color space and shows how color mixing works. Generally speaking mixing any two points in this color map provides a color between the two points i.e. as observed by an observer .

While certain previously described embodiments were discussed with respect to two colors the person of skill in the art will appreciate that similar techniques can be used to provide for example devices emitting in three colors. Such devices can for example be configured to emit light that appears white.

To achieve white color using two color mixing the requirement for the two colors are 380 nm 470 nm 570 nm 575 nm The calculation is based on the CIE xyz color space. The white color is defined as x y z . Here x y and z refer to the color space not the composition. A white color laser can be based on a ZnCdSSematerial. A possible composition is shown by the graph in . This figure illustrates all the possible range of x and y to achieve white light with two segments of a ZnCdSSe nanowires. For if

As an example of three color mixing according to the CIE xyz color space the possible colors by mixing three single wavelength lasing are shown in for the three single wavelengths 470 nm 540 nm and 640 nm. The colors in the black triangle can be achieved by a three segment laser. An example of a three segment laser is based on the ZnCdSSesemiconductor compositions as shown in . If

The person of skill in the art will be able to determine the gain requirements of the devices and methods described herein. For example for certain material systems the refractive index of all materials can be assumed to be about 2.6 the average refractive index of ZnS CdS and CdSe at 630 nm . If the gain material length is assumed to be 50 m the loss from two mirrors is assumed to be 650 cmand the confinement factor is more than 95 then the minimum gain requirement for the whole wire cavity straight part can be about 680 cm. If the junction coupling is assumed to be 0.2 i.e. between looped and straight portions and the length of the looped circle is assumed to be 50 m and the confinement factor is 95 then the minimum gain requirement for the looped cavity is 340 cm.

Accordingly the semiconductor nanostructures devices and methods described herein can provide a number of advantages including small device size flexible lasing colors and active color tunability in an extremely wide range compared to the gain bandwidth of a single semiconductor. Moreover the semiconductor nanostructures devices and methods described herein can simultaneously overcome two fundamental challenges of multicolor lasing material growth and cavity design. Accordingly semiconductor nanostructures devices and methods described herein can be useful in various applications including photonic integrated circuits small size white color lasers on chip laser display white lasers for lighting and illumination display applications and any other situations where dynamic color control is desired.

The present invention is illustrated by way of the foregoing description and examples. The foregoing description is intended as a non limiting illustration since many variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art in view thereof. It is intended that all such variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims be embraced thereby. Each referenced document herein is incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Changes can be made in the composition operation and arrangement of the method of the present invention described herein without departing from the concept and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

