---

title: Net moderator
abstract: A method and an apparatus for moderating an inappropriate relationship between two parties by analyzing a dialog between the two parties. The method and apparatus creates an alert depending upon the nature of the dialog between the two parties. The alert is sent to a third party who can moderate the relationship between the two parties. The third party can ban or block the dialog between the two parties based upon the inappropriate relationship between the two parties. A banning or block of the dialog between the two parties can also be automated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223778&OS=09223778&RS=09223778
owner: CRISP THINKING GROUP LTD.
number: 09223778
owner_city: Leeds
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20130518
---
This application is a continuation under 35 USC 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 901 516 filed Oct. 9 2010 which in turn claims benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 250 259 filed Oct. 9 2009. The disclosures of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 901 516 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 250 259 are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties for all purposes.

The field of the present disclosure relates to an apparatus and a method for monitoring a relationship between two parties by analyzing a dialog between the two parties.

A number of virtual chat networks are known to exist such as those provided by social networks e.g. Facebook Myspace massively media online games MMOG online instant messaging applications e.g. Yahoo Messenger MSN Messenger ICQ applications and SMS based applications.

Virtual chat networks allow a first party and a second party to be involved in a dialog with each other without the two parties needing to be physically present at the same location. The dialog between the two parties using the virtual chat network is an ubiquitous form of communication in the modern society. Millions of parties communicate with each other through the virtual chat networks while at school home or at work. The virtual chat networks have advantages in that they provide a network that enables ease of dialog between the two parties. Continual advances in the technology and ease of use of the virtual chat networks have made the virtual chat networks a common platform for dialog communication between two parties.

The use of the virtual chat network for the dialog between the first party and the second party has known disadvantages. For example the identity of parties to the dialog can not be reliably confirmed. The parties engaged in the dialog might be involved in inappropriate and illegal dialog which cannot be easily monitored or mediated. The honesty of the parties cannot be readily determined. A particular area where the anonymity of the parties engaged in the dialog is a particular problem where one of the parties is grooming the other party for a paedophilic relationship.

The use of the virtual chat network for the dialog between the first party and the second party has further issues. For example the dialog between the two parties can be related to illegal activities such as spamming bullying child grooming espionage industrial espionage terrorism security and legal compliance.

Many of the known methods and apparatus currently available to analyze the dialog between the two parties are ineffective and cumbersome to administer. The known methods and apparatus require an enormous amount of administration by a moderator e.g. a trained supervisor . The moderator may be required to study the dialog in its entirety over weeks and months in order to ascertain if a potentially inappropriate relationship between the first party and the second party is developing. Furthermore the moderator will need to act upon instinct to moderate the dialog and to take action depending upon the nature of the relationship as indicated by the dialog. Furthermore an invasion of privacy may also hinder the ability of the moderator to monitor the dialog between the two parties.

Hence it would be advantageous to have a method and an apparatus to moderate a relationship between two parties by analyzing the dialog between the two parties.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0013692 A1 discloses an e mail system that identifies if an e mail conforms to a specific language type. A scoring engine compares text of the e mail to a known language model. A user interface assigns a language indicator to the e mail based upon a score provided by a scoring engine. The U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0013692 discloses a graphical flagging of the e mail according to a language content of the e email. The U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0013692 A1 does not disclose a method or an apparatus for analyzing a dialog between two parties to moderate a relationship between the two parties.

A U.S. Pat. No. 6 438 632 B1 discloses an electronic bulletin board system that identifies inappropriate and unwanted bulletin postings by users using an unwanted words list. If an unwanted bulletin posting is identified then the unwanted bulletin posting is withdrawn from the electronic bulletin board and a moderator of the electronic bulletin board and a user is informed that the bulletin posting is inappropriate for the electronic bulletin board. The U.S. Pat. No. 6 438 632 B1 does not disclose a method or an apparatus for analyzing a dialog between two parties to moderate a relationship between the two parties.

Finally an article by L. Penna et al Challenges of Automating the Detection of Paedophile Activity on the Internet Proc 1International Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering SADFE 05 outlines the need for research into the process of automating the detection of inappropriate activities on the internet and identifies the associated challenges within the research area. The article by L. Penna overviews and analyses technologies associated with the use of the internet by paedophiles in terms of event information that each technology potentially provides. The article by L. Penna also reviews the anonymity challenges presented by these technologies. The article by L. Penna presents methods for currently uncharted research that would aid in the process of automating the detection of paedophile activities on the internet. The article by L. Penna includes a short discussion of methods involved in automatically detecting paedophile activities. The article by L. Penna does not disclose a method or an apparatus for analyzing a dialog between two parties to moderate a relationship between the two parties.

A method for monitoring a relationship between two parties based on capturing and analyzing a textual dialog between the two or more parties is disclosed. The dialog is captured from a virtual chat network and analyzed with a word and phrase filter engine. The captured dialog is then analyzed with a concept filter engine to determine a concept of the dialog. The dialog which is analyzed with the word and phrase filter engine and the concept filter engine is moderated to determine an existence of an inappropriate relationship between the two parties.

In a further aspect the captured dialog between the two parties is further analyzed with a relationship status analysis engine.

In a further aspect a result of an analysis of the dialog is sent to a third party who can review and moderate the dialog between the two parties. The third party can moderate the dialog for an inappropriate relationship between the two parties. The third party can be for example a moderator of virtual chat network a parent of any one of the two parties or can be a police officer.

The dialog between the two parties can be analyzed in real time or in delayed time. In a further aspect a dynamic behavior profile of each one of the two parties can be created by comparing a known dialog pattern of each one of the two parties with the captured dialog between the two parties.

The method allows the determination of the existence of the inappropriate relationship between the two parties based upon the analysis of the captured dialog from the virtual chat network. The method can prevent the dialog between two parties continuing based upon the analysis of the captured dialog.

The method allows a prioritization of alerts relating to results of the analysis of the captured dialog. The alerts can be used by the third party or any other person to ascertain the existence of the inappropriate dialog and relationship between the two parties.

Furthermore the method provides a plurality of engines which have editable parameters. The plurality of engines is used to analyze the captured dialog. The editable parameters allow for the method and a system disclosed herein to be dynamically updatable and allows for the analysis of the dialog which comprises changes in dialog the two parties.

An apparatus is also disclosed for monitoring the relationship between the two parties based on analyzing a captured dialog between two or more parties. The dialog is in the form of a textual based dialog which is captured from a virtual chat network. The apparatus comprises a relationship moderator engine to capture the dialog. The apparatus further comprises a word and filter phrase engine to analyze the dialog based on at least one keyword present in the dialog.

The apparatus further comprises a concept filter engine to determine a concept of the dialog that is evolving between the two parties. Furthermore the apparatus comprises a transmitter which sends information regarding a dialog to a third party.

The apparatus according to a further aspect comprises a relationship moderator alert interface which is adapted to prioritize inappropriate captured dialog alerts between the two parties. The prioritization of inappropriate captured dialog alerts allows the third party to act upon any one of the two parties by for example by banning the one or more of the parties from being involved in a dialog.

In a further aspect the apparatus comprises a storage device to store any of the captured dialog between any of the parties. The storage of the captured dialog allows the captured dialog to be used as evidence when one of inappropriate dialog or an inappropriate relationship exists between the two parties.

The apparatus is operable in the virtual chat network. The virtual chat network can be but is not limited to an online social network a multimedia online gaming network an online instant messaging application or a SMS based application.

For a complete understanding of the present disclosure and the advantages thereof reference is made to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying Figures.

It should be appreciated that the various aspects and embodiments of the disclosure as disclosed herein are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the features of the disclosure and do not therefore limit the scope of disclosure when taken into consideration with the appended claims and the following detailed description and the accompanying Figures.

It should be realized that features from one aspect and embodiment of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the specification or practice of the disclosure disclosed herein and these features can be combined with features from other aspects and embodiments of the disclosure.

The relationship between the first party and the second party is analyzed to ascertain if the relationship between the two parties may be an illegal relationship or an inappropriate relationship. In one example of the present disclosure the first party comprises a child and the second party comprises an adult. The teachings of the present disclosure may therefore be used to detect a relationship that may be of a paedophilic nature. In a further example the first party and the second party can both comprise an adult. In a further example first party and the second party can both comprise a child.

The dialog between the two parties occurs through a virtual chat network . The virtual chat network can be for example by a social online network such as Facebook or MySpace. The virtual chat network can be for example a massively media online game network MMOG . The virtual chat network can be for example an online instant messaging application such as Yahoo Messenger or MSN Messenger. The virtual chat network can be an ICQ based application. The virtual chat network can also for example be a SMS based application of a mobile telephone.

The first user and the second user can enter into the dialog by the use of an internet enabled computer not shown or by a SMS enabled mobile telephone. The virtual chat network enables the first user and the second user to engage in the dialog . The dialog between the two users is in the form of a textual dialog .

The dialog between the two parties is analyzed by a relationship moderator engine . The relationship moderator engine comprises a word and phrase filter engine a concept filter engine and a relationship status analysis engine . The relationship moderator engine further comprises a transmitter a storage device and a processor .

The word and phrase filter engine provides short range dialog analysis. The word and phrase filter engine analyses the captured dialog between the two parties and based upon specific word and phrase content of the dialog in real time. The word and phrase filter engine comprises a word and phrase filter rules engine . The captured dialog is analyzed using a white list and a black list of word and phrases provided for by the word and phrase filter rules engine . Should a specific word or phrase which is present in the black list of the word and phrase filter rules engine be present in the captured dialog then the specific word or phrase which is present in the black list between the two parties will be blocked and a censored dialog alert will be created. Conversely should a specific word or phrase which is present on the white list of the word and phrase filter rules engine be present in the captured dialog then the dialog between the two parties will be allowed to continue and again the censored dialog alert will be created.

Parameters of the word and phrase filter rules engine are editable. The edit ability of the word and phrase filter rules engine ensure that the word and phrase filter engine can be updated regularly to account for changes in the language used by either of the first party and the second party in the dialog . Changes in the language of the dialog may take into account new slang terms and acronyms that may be used between the two parties engaged in the dialog . Example of acronyms used in the dialog that can be analyzed by word and phrase filter engine include

The word and phrase filter engine is able to analyze word and phrases of the captured dialog that may not be written in the conventional form. The word and phrase filter engine handles short range dialog analysis between the two parties by analyzing the captured dialog to uncover low level inappropriate dialog between the two parties .

The word and phrase filter engine blocks any inappropriate dialog before the inappropriate dialog reaches the intended party based upon the word and phrase filter rules engine black list.

If the word and phrase filter engine blocks any inappropriate dialog before the inappropriate dialog reaches the intended party based upon the black list then the virtual chat network is provided with the censored dialog alert . The censored dialog alert comprises information relating to the dialog and the words and phrases analyzed from the dialog with the word and phrase filter rules engine . The virtual chat network can act upon the censored dialog alert and can for example ban or silence the one of the two parties who used the inappropriate dialog that was on the black list .

The words and phrases that are present in the black list of word and phrase filter rules engine have a profanity score. The profanity score determines what action to take against one of the two parties in the virtual chat network. For example should the second party use the word fuck you which has a high profanity score then the second party may be banned form the virtual chat network. Furthermore the word fuck you will not be part of the dialog between the two parties the word fuck you will be filtered out of the dialog . The profanity score and the action to be taken can by edited a third party . In a further aspect of the present disclosure the word and phrase filter rules engine will allow the dialog to contain words and phrases that are present in the black list to be repeated to a predetermined number of occurrences. Once the predetermined number of occurrences has been reached then the action against one of the two parties will be taken. The action could include but is not limited to blocking the further use of the system or warning the user that it might be barred from the system in the future.

The censored dialog alert is also saved to the storage device and it may be sent to the third party who can further moderate the dialog between the first party and the second party .

In one aspect of the present disclosure the captured dialog between the first party and the second party can be analyzed by the word and phrase filter engine in real time as the dialog occurs.

In a further aspect of the present disclosure the captured dialog between the first party and the second party can be analyzed by the word and phrase filter engine in delayed time. Analysis of the captured dialog in delayed time will be because the one of the two parties is engaged in the dialog with the other party whilst the other party is not actually engaged in the dialog at the same time. For analysis of the captured dialog in delayed time the dialog saved to the storage device and analyzed once both of the two parties are engaged in the dialog .

The censored dialog alert which is created by the word and phrase filter engine is transmitted to the third party by the transmitter present in relationship moderator engine . The third party can for example be a parent or guardian of either of the two parties . The third party can for example be an officer of the law. The third party can for example be a moderating team of the virtual chat network . The third party can also offer an application programming interface to the virtual chat network . The application programming interface offers an interface to further monitoring software.

The word and phrase filter engine allows the third party such as a parent or a moderating team of the virtual chat network to focus their energy on more serious and more sinister inappropriate dialog because the word and phrase filter rules engine allows dialog which is not present on the black list of the word and phrase filter rules engine .

The word and phrase filter engine conducts a basic analysis of the captured dialog . Suppose for example the captured dialog occurs via a virtual chat network which is provided for by a multimedia online game. The word and phrase filter engine which is operating on the multimedia online game will be able to block out inappropriate dialog which is on the black list of words and phrases between the two parties . The multimedia online game will then be able to perhaps ban any one or both of the two parties from the multimedia online game depending upon the inappropriate dialog . The banning or silencing of anyone of the two parties is an automated procedure. Should the inappropriate dialog not warrant a banning of any one of the two parties then the multimedia online game will allow the two parties to possibly continue in their dialog via the multimedia online game.

The word and phrase filter engine will also analyze the captured dialog to determine whether the captured dialog includes an e mail addresses that is the conventional form for example me me.com. The word and phrase filter engine may not analyze the captured dialog for the e mail addresses that are not in the conventional form for example me AT me dot com or variations of the e mail addresses that may not be in the conventional form . It will however be appreciated that later modifications may allow such analysis of the e mail addresses not in the conventional form. Should the word and phrase filter engine analyze captured dialog that contains the e mail address in the conventional form the e mail address will be blocked from the dialog between the two parties and not be displayed during the dialog to either one of the two parties .

Where the captured dialog is not totally blocked between the two parties following analysis by the word and phrase filter engine the dialog is then sent to a moderator stack. The moderator stack stores the dialog for analysis of the dialog by the concept filter engine and the relationship status engine .

The concept filter engine undertakes a more detailed analysis of the captured dialog which was analyzed by the word and phrase filter engine .

The concept filter engine analyses the captured dialog by medium range dialog analysis. The concept filter engine detects not only inappropriate content of the dialog but also detects the first warning signs of an inappropriate relationship developing e.g. cyber bullying relationship or predatory behavior between the two parties .

The concept filter engine analyses each line of the captured dialog . The concept filter engine analyses the captured dialog for any indication that the two parties are attempting to make direct contact. The direct contact would be an indication that two parties are attempting to make contact without the virtual chat network . The concept filter engine analyses the dialog for the presence of personal information relating to either of the two parties . The personal information can for example include a home address a telephone number an email address or specific rendezvous information relating to either of the two parties . The divulgence of the personal information by either of the two parties in the dialog would allow the two parties to make direct contact.

The concept filter engine gauges a level of threat that the captured dialog represents. Instead of raising an alarm every time a word or phrase is matched the concept filter engine analyses the captured dialog to create a concept behind the captured dialog.

The captured dialog is analyzed using a white list and a black list of personal information provided for by a concept filter rules engine . Should specific personal information present in the black list of the concept filter rules engine be present in the captured dialog then a concept dialog alert will be created. The concept dialog alert is saved on the storage means and is then sent to the third party who can further moderate the dialog between the first party and the second party .

Parameters of the concept filter rules engine are editable. The edit ability of the concept filter rules engine ensures that the concept filter rules engine can be updated regularly to account for changes in language and personal information by either of the two parties. Changes in the language of the dialog may take into account new slang terms and acronyms that may be used between the two parties engaged in the dialog .

The concept dialog alert which is created by the concept filter engine is transmitted to the third party by the transmitter present in relationship moderator engine . The third party can for example be a parent or guardian of either of the two parties . The third party can for example be an officer of the law. The third party can for example be a moderating team of the virtual chat network .

The third party can assess the relationship between the two parties based upon the concept dialog alert . The concept dialog alert comprises information regarding the captured dialog specific words or phrases and personal information present in the captured dialog following analysis of the captured dialog by the concept filter engine .

The relationship status engine analyses the captured dialog by long range dialog analysis. The relationship status engine is described in pending International Patent Application No. PCT US2007 080008. The relationship status engine identifies the most suspicious relationships between two parties based upon analysis of the captured dialog by the relationship status engine . The relationship status engine identifies the most suspicious relationship and trends by analysis of the captured dialog between the two users before they become damaging. Sexual predatory behavior is purposefully more subtle and longer term in style than bullying behavior. A predators such as a first user will use methods which avoid arousing the suspicion of their victim such as the second user and even the third parties by sidestepping emotional usage of language and focusing instead on areas that can help them to establish rapport and trust over weeks and months before revealing their true intentions. Due to the nature of long range threats keyword matching using the word and phrase filter engine and the content filter engine alone cannot always identify both parties of such dialog.

The relationship status engine analyses over two hundred elements of each relationship between two parties based on the captured dialog in order to determine underlying patterns used in the relationship between two parties . The relationship status engine is used to identify grooming and predatory behavior.

The relationship status engine analyses the captured dialog over successive dialogs and monitors the development of the relationship between the two parties . By assessing and ranking any risks that exist within the relationship the relationship status engine provides the third party with information needed to predict when an undesirable relationship and behavior is developing between the two parties .

The relationship status engine comprises a vulnerable user database holding analysis of millions of lines of a child s virtual chat network dialog . The relationship status engine comprises a predator user database holding analysis of millions of lines of a predators virtual chat network dialog . The predator user database comprises of extensive records taken from convicted groomer cases. From the vulnerable user database and predator user database the relationship status engine creates a dynamic detailed behavioral profile of real life groomers i.e. second party and real children first user .

The relationship status engine analyses the captured dialog received from the content filter engine . The relationship status engine analyses the dialog between the first user and the second user and analyses what both users are saying and how they say it. The relationship status engine understand the way in which the two parties direct the dialog . The relationship status engine analyses over two hundred factors in each captured dialog . Some aspects of the analysis are simple others are more technical.

For example the relationship status engine examines typing speed syntax and use of punctuation as well as aggression levels sexual content and pattern recognition techniques used by either of the first party or the second party .

As the relationship status engine analyses more and more of the captured dialog the relationship status engine refines the vulnerable user database and the predator user database as well as the relationship status engines ability to assess relationships and uncover negative or unhealthy trends in the relationship.

A relationship status alert which is created by the relationship status engine is transmitted to the third party by the transmitter present in relationship moderator engine . The relationship status alert comprises information regarding the captured dialog following analysis of the captured dialog from the relationship status engine . The third party can for example be a parent or guardian of either of the two parties .

The third party can for example be an officer of the law. The third party can for example be a moderating team of the virtual chat network .

The third party can moderate the relationship between the two parties based upon the relationship status alert . The relationship status alert comprises information regarding the captured dialog .

The censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert all relate to an incident occurring during the captured dialog . The censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert are all dynamic due to changes in the profanity score of any of the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert . If one of the two users uses inappropriate dialog any of the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert will receive an increased profanity score. The increased profanity score results in any of the profanity score the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert being prioritized. As a result of the prioritization of any of the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert the incident occurring during the captured dialog can be swiftly dealt with by the third party . Conversely if one of the two users uses dialog which is appropriate then the profanity score is reduced which results in a reduction in the priority of any of any of the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert .

Each one of the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert produce an input for the incident based on the profanity score of the incident.

The censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert are sent from the relationship moderator engine to the third party by the transmitter of the relationship moderator engine .

In an aspect of the present disclosure the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert may be sent to the third party via a costumer relationship management interface . The costumer relationship manager interface is a well known and commercial costumer relationship manager interface such as that provided by Parature Microsoft Dynamics and Sales Force.

In a further aspect of the present disclosure the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert is sent to the third party via a relationship moderator alert interface . The relationship moderator alert interface organizes the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert into a readily actionable format for the third party . The readily actionable format provided by the relationship moderator alert interface enables the third party for example to prioritize any of the censored dialog alert the concept dialog and the relationship status alert or to take an overview of an inappropriate relationship occurring within the virtual chat network by the two parties .

The relationship moderator alert interface is tailored specifically to the virtual chat network and delivers the following functions. The relationship moderator alert interface displays the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert . The relationship moderator alert interface allows the third party to rapidly view the relationship and behavior patterns of the parties of the dialog of the virtual chat network . The relationship moderator alert interface allows the third party to prioritize any of the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert . The relationship moderator alert interface allows the third party to compile a list of users of the virtual chat network that are periodically involved in inappropriate dialog . The relationship moderator alert interface allows the moderator to view each individual dialog the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert. The relationship moderator alert interface also allows the third party to view each individual dialog between the two parties . The dialog between the first party and the second party can be viewed by the third party via the relationship moderator alert interface in real time or in delayed time the moderator can also recall a saved dialog from the relationship moderator engine . The saved dialog will be recalled from the storage device of the relationship moderator engine .

The relationship moderator alert interface allows the third party to provide a certain response based on the moderation of the dialog between the two parties . For example the third party may ban either of the first party or the second party from being involved in a dialog using the virtual chat network . The relationship moderator alert interface may also be automated to notify a legal entity such as the police for example in circumstances where the dialog between the first user and the second user is deemed to be illegal.

In step the captured dialog is analyzed by the word and phrase filter engine . The captured dialog is analyzed using the white list and the black list of the word and phrase filter rules engine .

In step the word and phrase filter engine is able to block any inappropriate dialog before the inappropriate dialog reaches any one of the two parties .

In step the censored dialog alert is provided by the word and phrase filter engine . The censored dialog alert comprises information relating to the dialog and includes words and phrases that have been analyzed from the dialog by the word and phrase filter rules engine .

In step the virtual chat network can act upon the censored dialog alert and can for example ban or silence one of the two parties . This achieved based upon the profanity score of the analyzed dialog as discussed above.

In step the captured dialog that has been analyzed by the word and phrase filter engine is then analyzed by the concept filter engine . The content filter engine detects not only inappropriate content of the dialog but also detects the first warning signs of the inappropriate relationship developing between the two parties . The concept filter engine analyses each line of the captured dialog for any indication that the two parties are attempting to make direct contact.

In step the concept dialog alert is made which comprises information regarding the analysis of the dialog by the concept filter engine .

Following the analysis of the captured dialog by the concept filter engine the captured dialog is analyzed by the relationship status engine in step . The relationship status engine identifies the most suspicious relationships between the two parties based upon analysis of the captured dialog . The relationship status engine analyses the captured dialog over successive dialogs and monitors the development of the relationship between the two parties .

In step the relationship status alert is created by the relationship status engine . The relationship status alert comprises information regarding the captured dialog that has been analyzed by the relationship status engine .

In step each one of the censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert are transmitted to the third party . The censored dialog alert the concept dialog alert and the relationship status alert are transmitted to third party by the transmitter . The third party is then able to take action against any of the two parties and based upon the analysis of the captured dialog .

Having thus described the present disclosure in detail it is to be understood that the foregoing detailed description of the disclosure is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure thereof. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize other variants modifications and alternatives in light of the foregoing discussion.

Set out below is a listing of reference numerals for ease of reference with respect to the drawings hereof and the appertaining description.

