---

title: Compact magnetics assembly
abstract: A magnetic assembly to receive current having a high current and high frequency includes a transformer, at least one resonant inductor, and at least one auxiliary inductor. The resonant inductor is in electrical communication with the transformer, and the auxiliary inductor is in electrical communication with the resonant inductor. The magnetic assembly further includes at least one conductor having a first end coupled to the auxiliary inductor and a second end coupled to the transformer. The conductor extends continuously between the first and second ends without terminating to form an auxiliary winding of the auxiliary inductor, a resonant winding of the resonant inductor, and at least one primary winding of the transformer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09349523&OS=09349523&RS=09349523
owner: RAYTHEON COMPANY
number: 09349523
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130715
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N00014 09 D 0726 awarded by United States Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates to magnetic assemblies and more specifically to a compact magnetic assembly that efficiently interconnects high frequency and high current magnetic devices.

High density and low loss assembly and interconnection of magnetic devices present various concerns when operating in a power range of tens of kilowatts a current range of hundreds of amperes and a frequency range of tens of kilohertz. The various concerns include the number of winding terminations electromagnetic interference EMI . High density and low loss assembly and interconnection of magnetic devices also invite an interest in solving issues related to interconnecting one or more subassemblies and cooling the magnetic devices. Skin effect losses in high current conductors and leakage inductance can increase the overall power dissipation and lead to high EMI. Therefore shielding and interconnect methods for reducing EMI are required which add significant volume and weight to the conventional magnetic assembly. These issues are exacerbated for power converters comprising assemblies with multiple magnetics.

Typically high frequency magnetic assemblies utilize one or more multi stranded Litz wires for creating electrical connections to high frequency high current magnetic devices. However leakage inductance occurs when high frequency high current flows through the Litz wire connection point thereby increasing the radiated magnetic field and associated EMI. Consequently additional shielding is required at the connection points. As a result a magnetic assembly having a large number of Litz wire connection points requires an increased amount of EMI shielding thereby preventing fabrication of a compact magnetic assembly.

According to one embodiment a magnetic assembly to receive current having a high current and high frequency comprises a transformer at least one first inductor and at least one second inductor. The first inductor is in electrical communication with the transformer and the second inductor is in electrical communication with the first inductor. The magnetic assembly further includes at least one conductor having a first end coupled to the second inductor and a second end coupled to the transformer. The conductor extends continuously between the first and second ends without terminating to form an auxiliary winding of the second inductor a resonant winding of the first inductor and at least one primary winding of the transformer.

According to another embodiment a method of forming a magnetic assembly to receive current having a high current and high frequency comprises disposing a first end of a conductor at a first contact point of a first inductor and disposing a second end of the conductor at a second contact point of a transformer. The method further includes extending the conductor continuously between the first and second contact points without terminating the conductor therebetween. The method further includes forming an auxiliary winding of a first inductor using a first portion of the conductor forming a resonant winding of a second inductor using a second portion of the conductor and forming at least one primary winding of the transformer using a third portion of the conductor.

According to yet another embodiment a method of electrically connecting an interconnect conductor to a continuously extending conductor that forms at least one winding of a magnetic assembly comprises determining cross section area size of single bonds for bonding the interconnect conductor. The method further includes determining a target impedance and a total contact area of the interconnect conductor. The method further includes determining a bonding pattern to electrically connect the interconnect conductor to the conductor of the magnetic assembly. The method further includes bonding the interconnect conductor to the conductor of the magnetic assembly according to the bonding pattern thereby forming an electrically conductive contact point without terminating the conductor.

Additional features are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with the features refer to the description and to the drawings.

To mitigate skin effect losses and leakage inductance in high current conductors at least one embodiment of the disclosure provides a magnetic assembly included with one or more conductors that extend continuously without terminating to form a winding of one or more independent magnetic devices. The magnetic assembly according to at least one embodiment described herein may be utilized to construct various magnetic hardware devices. Referring to for example an electrical schematic illustrates a SRC module including a magnetic assembly according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. By constructing the SRC module to include the magnetic assembly having one or more conductors that form a winding of a respective independent magnetic device without being terminated between the conductor ends skin effect losses and leakage inductance of the magnetic assembly may be reduced.

According to at least one exemplary embodiment the SRC module may be switched at 100 kHz to generate a galvanically isolated output of 500 VDC at 62 500 W. The SRC module includes a primary bridge unit and a secondary bridge unit . The primary bridge unit includes the magnetic assembly . The magnetic assembly includes for example five independent magnetic devices a transformer T two first inductors e.g. resonant inductors Lr and Lr and two second inductors e.g. auxiliary inductors La and La. It can be appreciated that a resonant inductor may be referred to as a second inductor and an auxiliary inductor may be referred to as a first inductor.

Each resonant inductor Lr Lr includes respective resonant windings and each auxiliary inductor La La includes respective auxiliary windings. The transformer T includes two primary windings T T . The secondary bridge unit may include a secondary winding T that electrically communicates with the primary windings T T via an electromagnetic field. The full load and high input line correspond to the highest continuous currents of the independent magnetic devices. In the exemplary embodiment shown in the resonant inductor Lr carries a root means square RMS current of approximately 263 amperes A and the inductor Lr carries a RMS current of approximately 192 A while the auxiliary inductors La and La carry relatively low currents of approximately 41 A RMS each.

Based on the current parameters described above a conventional SRC module would require excessively large terminals to connect each individual magnetic device thereby increasing the overall size of the SRC module. Further the large terminals would increase the gap between the two conductors forming the transformer windings which carry current in opposite directions thereby increasing leakage inductance. However the magnetic assembly according to at least one exemplary embodiment provides at least one conductor that continuously extends between the first and second ends thereof without terminating and forms the auxiliary winding of at least one auxiliary inductor the resonant winding of at least one resonant inductor and at least one primary winding of the transformer. The conductor may be formed as a electrically conductive Litz wire for example 

A magnetic assembly according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure is illustrated in . As discussed above the magnetic assembly includes a transformer T two resonant inductors Lr and Lr and two auxiliary inductors La and La. The transformer T includes two primary windings T and T . The resonant inductors Lr Lr each include a respective resonant winding and the auxiliary inductors La La each include a respective auxiliary winding. In at least one exemplary embodiment illustrated in the windings may be formed in pairs to withstand the flow of excessively high current. For example the primary winding T may include a pair of windings T . and T .. The primary winding T may include a pair of windings T . and T .. The resonant windings and the auxiliary windings may also be formed in pairs. As illustrated in the resonant inductor Lr may include windings Lr and Lr . The resonant inductor Lr may include the windings Lr and Lr . The auxiliary inductor La may include windings La and La . Finally the auxiliary inductor La may include windings La and La .

The first and second resonant inductors Lr LR may be connected to the transformer T in various manners. For example the first and second resonant inductors Lr Lr may each be connected in parallel with the transformer T as illustrated in . Alternatively the first and second resonant inductors may each be connected in series with the transformer as illustrated in . The series connection divides the current output from the first resonant inductor Lr equally with respect to the first portion T . and the second portion T . of the transformer T.

Each of the windings corresponding to the transformer T the resonant inductors Tr Tr and the auxiliary inductors Ta Ta are formed by a continuous conductor. Referring to for example the magnetic assembly includes a first conductor a second conductor a third conductor and fourth conductor . The first conductor has a first end coupled to the first auxiliary inductor La and a second end coupled to a first node of the transformer T. The first conductor extends continuously between the first and second ends without terminating to form a first auxiliary winding portion i.e. winding La of the first auxiliary inductor La a first resonant winding portion i.e. winding Lr of the first resonant inductor Lr and a first portion of the first primary winding i.e. winding T . of the transformer T.

The second conductor has a first end coupled to the first auxiliary inductor and a second end coupled to the first node of the transformer T. The second conductor extends continuously between the first and second ends without terminating to form a second auxiliary winding portion i.e. winding La of the first auxiliary inductor La a second resonant winding portion i.e. winding Lr of the first resonant inductor Lr and a second portion of a first primary winding i.e. winding T . of the transformer T.

The third conductor has a first end coupled to the second auxiliary inductor La and a second end coupled to a second node of the transformer T. The third conductor extends continuously between the first and second ends without terminating to form a first auxiliary winding portion i.e. winding La of the second auxiliary inductor La a first resonant winding portion i.e. winding Lr of the second resonant inductor Lr and a first portion of a second primary winding i.e. T . of the transformer T.

The fourth conductor has a first end coupled to the second auxiliary inductor La and a second end coupled to the second node of the transformer T. The fourth conductor extends continuously between the first and second ends without terminating to form a second auxiliary winding portion i.e. winding La of the second auxiliary inductor La a second resonant winding portion i.e. winding Lr of the second resonant inductor Lr and a second portion of a second primary winding i.e. winding T . of the transformer T.

The magnetic assembly according to at least one exemplary embodiment further includes one or more contact points A F located on one or more of the conductors . The first end of the first conductor and the first end of the second conductor may be coupled to one another at a contact point A. The second end of the first conductor and the second end of the second conductor may be coupled to one another at a contact point C. The first end of the third conductor and the first end of the fourth conductor may be coupled to one another at a contact point F. The second end of the third conductor and the second end of the fourth conductor may be coupled to one another at a contact point D. Accordingly at least one embodiment of the disclosure described above provides a magnetic assembly including one or more conductors that extend continuously without terminating to form windings of one or more independent magnetic devices. The magnetic assembly therefore may operate under high current and high frequency conditions while mitigating skin effect losses and leakage inductance in the conductors.

At least one interconnect conductor may also be coupled to at least one of the conductors at a respective contact point A F without terminating the conductor between the respective first and second ends as discussed in greater detail below. According to at least one embodiment the at least one conductor and the at least one interconnect conductor are formed from Litz wires comprising a plurality of electrically conductive strands. The strands may be braided according to various patterns to reduce the impact of both skin effect and proximity effect.

Referring to an interconnect conductor is shown bonded against an exterior surface of a continuous conductor included in the magnetic assembly to form an electrically conductive contact point. The continuous conductor ultimately forms one or more windings of an independent magnetic device as described in detail above. In at least one embodiment the interconnect conductor extends perpendicular to the continuous conductor . Accordingly an initial current i flowing through the continuous conductor will be divided at the contact point between the interconnect conductor and the continuous conductor . As a result a first divided current i flows through the continuous conductor downstream from the contact point while a second divided current i flows through the interconnect conductor downstream from the contact point.

The interconnect conductor and the continuous conductor are formed from Litz wires comprising a plurality of electrically conductive strands and are bonded to one another using for example a laser welding process. Although a laser welding process will described going forward other bonding methods may be used including but not limited to resistance welding spot welding ultrasonic welding and wire fusion.

Still referring to a plurality of individual laser welds are formed at a contact point e.g. A F shared by the interconnect conductor and the continuous conductor . The laser welds are formed by applying a laser welding tool to the exposed exterior surface of the interconnect conductor . Each laser weld may have a diameter ranging from 0.002 inches to 0.01 inches. The plurality of laser welds are formed according to a randomized bonding pattern to preserve the individual conducting pattern of the braided strands corresponding to the interconnect conductor and the continuous conductor . Further the determined bonding pattern ensures that individual strands of the Litz wires are not bonded to one another. According to at least one embodiment the bonding pattern is ascertained by determining a cross section area size of single bonds formed by the laser welds . Then a maximum single bond cross section area that is less a cross section area of an individual interconnect conductor is determined. Accordingly individual strands of the interconnect conductor and the continuous conductor are not fused together.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates a method of electrically connecting an interconnect conductor to a conductor that forms at least one winding of a magnetic assembly. The method begins at operation and at operation a cross section area size of single bonds for bonding the interconnect conductor to a continuous conductor forming one or more windings of an independent magnetic device is determined. The determination of the cross section area size of single bonds may further include determining a maximum single bond cross section area that is less a cross section area of an individual interconnect conductor such that individual strands are not fused together. At operation a target impedance and a total contact area of the interconnect conductor is determined. Target impedance of the interconnect area should not increase the aggregate impedance of the two conductors by more than few percent. By controlling the target impedance the overall efficiency may be maintained and the overstress of the contact area due to thermal cycling may be prevented. To satisfy this requirement at least one embodiment determines a target contact area that covers at least 95 of Litz conductor cross section area. At operation a bonding pattern is determined for electrically connecting the interconnect conductor to the continuous conductor of the magnetic assembly. The determination of the bonding pattern may include determining an arrangement of a plurality of conductive strands that form the interconnect conductor and bonding the interconnect conductor to the conductor without bonding individual conductive strands to one another. At operation the interconnect conductor is bonded to the continuous conductor of the magnetic assembly according to the bonding pattern and the method ends at operation . Accordingly an electrically conductive contact point is formed between the interconnect conductor and the conductor without terminating the conductor.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates a method of forming a magnetic assembly to receive current having a high current and high frequency according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. The method begins at operation and at operation a first end of a conductor is disposed at a first contact point corresponding to an auxiliary inductor and a second end of the conductor is disposed at a second contact point corresponding to a transformer. At operation the conductor is extended continuously between the first and second contact points without terminating the conductor between the first and second ends. At operation an auxiliary winding of the auxiliary inductor is formed using a first portion of the conductor. At operation a resonant winding of a resonant inductor is formed using a second portion of the conductor. At operation at least one primary winding of the transformer is formed using a third portion of the conductor. At operation an interconnect conductor is bonded to a contact of the conductor without terminating the conductor to electrically conductive contact point between interconnect conductor and conductor and the method ends at operation .

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the preferred embodiments to the invention have been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the invention first described.

