---

title: Location ranking using social graph information
abstract: In one embodiment, a user of a social networking system requests to check in a place near the user's current location. The social networking system generates a list of places near the user's current location, ranks the places in the list of places near the user's current location by a distance between each place and the user's current location, as well as activity of the user and the user's social contacts for each place, and returns the ranked list to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549031&OS=09549031&RS=09549031
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09549031
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130124
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 436 453 filed Mar. 30 2012 entitled Location Ranking Using Social Graph Information which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 858 718 filed Aug. 18 2010 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 150 844 entitled Location Ranking Using Social Graph Information .

The present disclosure relates generally to location based networks services and more particularly to a location based network service that provides a list of relevant places near the user s location by using geographic and social graph information.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interest. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing or instant messaging to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. A geo social networking system is a social networking system in which geographic services and capabilities are used to enable additional social interactions. User submitted location data or geo location techniques e.g. mobile phone position tracking can allow a geo social network to connect and coordinate users with local people or events that match their interests.

Particular embodiments relate to a geo social networking systems that provides a ranked list of places to users to facilitate various operations such as selecting a place in connection with checking in to a given location or for finding locations nearest a user s current geographic location. In one implementation the geo social networking system creates a list of relevant places near a user s location by using geographic and social network information. The list of places may be created by ranking a list of one or more places in the vicinity of the user by a distance between each place and the user and by check in activity of the user and the user s social contacts for each place. These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The invention is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user first registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can be generally defined by the relationships among groups of individuals or entities and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a user or entity of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171 filed Apr. 19 2010 which is incorporated by reference herein describes example social graph structures that may be used in various embodiments of the present invention.

Social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to places. Places correspond to various physical locations such as restaurants bars train stations airports and the like. Some places may correspond to larger regions that themselves contain places such as a restaurant or a gate location in an airport. In one implementation each place can be maintained as a hub node in a social graph or other data structure maintained by the social networking system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171. Social networking system may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application e.g. a browser hosted by a wired or wireless station such as a laptop desktop or mobile device. For example social networking system may serve web pages or other structured documents to users that request information about a place. In addition to user profile and place information the social networking system may track or maintain other information about the user. For example the social networking system may support geo social networking system functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile device of the user or a web or network based application using a browser client . The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile device and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. As described in more detail below check in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and using a mobile device access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence at the place. As described below a user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user s current location or create a new place. The user may also provide comments in a text string when checking in to a given place. The user may also identify one or more other users in connection with a check in such as friends of a user and associate them with the check in as well. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 574 614 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes describes a system that allows a first user to check in other users at a given place. An entry including the comment and a time stamp corresponding to the time the user checked in may be displayed to other users. For example a record of the user s check in activity may be stored in a database. Social networking system may select one or more records associated with check in activities of users at a given place and include such check in activity in web pages or other structured documents that correspond to a given place. For example social networking system may select the check in activity associated with the friends or other social contacts of a user that requests a page corresponding to a place. The user may also add delete or update events that the user is associated with. For example a user may update a social event associated with a time and date that the user is planning to attend or make comments in his wall posts about a past event he attended.

A user may or may not wish to share his information with other users or third party applications or a user may wish to share his information only with specific users or third party applications. A user may control whether his information when checking into a place is shared with other users or third party applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user. The privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user friends of friends or third party application that may have access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users predefined groups of the user s connections a particular type of connections all of the user s connections all first degree connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item index able and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.

In particular embodiments location database may store geo location data identifying a real world geographic location of an object such as a mobile device. For example a geographic location of an Internet connected computer can be identified by the computer s IP address. For example a geographic location of a cell phone equipped with Wi Fi and GPS capabilities can be identified by cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning and or GPS positioning. In particular embodiments a location database may store a geographic location and additional information for a plurality of places. For example a place can be a local business a point of interest e.g. Union Square in San Francisco Calif. a college a city or a national park. A place may also be more particular to a user or group of users such as a person s desk in an office building a bedroom in a house a traffic jam at a street corner and the like. A geographic location of a place e.g. a local coffee shop can be an address a set of geographic coordinates latitude and longitude or a reference to another place e.g. the coffee shop next to the train station or within a radius or relative distance of another place . For example a geographic location of a place with a large area e.g. Yosemite National Park can be a shape e.g. a circle or a polygon approximating the boundary of the place and or a centroid of the shape. In other embodiments a place can be located within another place forming a hierarchical relationship. For example an airport is place that has multiple terminals. These terminals may also be places that may or may not be associated with a larger encompassing place i.e. the airport. Location database may also maintain additional information of a place such as descriptions thumbnail map parameters business hours contact information web address web links photos icons badges points or user reviews or ratings of the place. A place object maintained by location database may also include one or more tags associated with the place e.g. coffee shop cross streets etc. and one or more category identifiers that facilitate searches for places. In particular embodiments location database may store a user s location data.

Places in location database may be system created or defined and or user created. For example location database may store information relating to places created by users such as in connection with a user s check in activities. For example a user can create a place e.g. a new restaurant or coffee shop and places service stores the user created place in location database . As discussed above social networking system may create one or more data structures relating to the place such as a data object corresponding to the place and a data object corresponding to the user s check in. In some implementations social networking system may also create a check in edge relationship between the node associated with the user in a social graph and a hub node associated with the place if the social networking system maintains a hybrid social graph structure disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171. A check in data object may include a user identifier associated with the user a place identifier or a pointer to a place object or hub node a time stamp and other meta information such as geographic location coordinates of a mobile device of the user comments of the user etc. .

In particular embodiments places service may be operably connected to database and . In connection with a check in or a general search of nearby places a user can search a place near the user s current location by providing text such as a text string that contains a full or partial name describing a place such as a name of the place or a category or concept associated with a place and or a geographic location to place services . Places service may search location database and provide the user a list of places near the geographic location that match the text string if provided . However a place search of nearby places based on a distance from a user s current location can yield a result that may or may not be relevant to the user. For example if a user is in San Francisco s Financial District neighborhood e.g. 100 Montgomery Street San Francisco Calif. and wants to search a nearby coffee shop a place search result may contain a random list of 10 coffee shops within walking distance. However a place search result may be more relevant to a user if the place search takes into account user profile social network and or social graph information and check in activities of other users of the social network. As in the previous example the 10 coffee shops can be ranked according to the user s or the user s friends activity for example a number of times that the user had checked in at one of the 10 coffee shops how recently a user s friend s had checked in one of the 10 coffee shops the number of friends of the user and or the number of users generally that have checked into the place the number of friends of the user and or the number of users generally that have checked into the place or whether any of the 10 coffee shops is marked by a friend of the user as my favorite coffee shop or whether friends of the user or other users generally have liked or otherwise indicated an affinity to a place such as posting a comment on a page corresponding to the place etc. . In other embodiments the places may be ranked by the user s friend s ratings and or reviews.

In particular embodiments the search request may additionally include a character string. In particular embodiments places service may access location database to identify a set of one or more places wherein a place identifier e.g. a name a metadata value of each place matches the character string partially or completely and where the place is within some threshold distance of the user s current location. For example if a user wants to check in to a nearby coffee shop the user can type coffe in a web page or a client application with the search request. Places service can return a list of nearby coffee shops e.g. Starbucks Coffee Peet s Coffee and Tea Dunkin Donuts etc. shows a user interface where a user has entered the term caf . The client application that provides the user interface may periodically transmit the text string in a search request as the user enters additional text or changes existing text in the text entry field possibly causing the places service to transmit a renewed list of places to the client application. In other implementations the client application may also retransmit the search request if the current location of the user changes by more than a threshold distance. The search request may also include other parameters such as tags or categories that can be used to filter and or rank the results.

In particular embodiments for each place in the set of one or more places near the user s current location places service may access location database and user profile database to generate a set of user activity data or access a cache or data store of previously generated user activity data . In particular embodiments the set of user activity data for each place may include one or more values corresponding to check in activity of the user CS CS and one or more values corresponding to check in activity of one or more friends of the user CS CS . In particular embodiments the set of user activity data may additionally include one or more values corresponding to check in activity of a global set of users in the social networking system CS CS . In particular embodiments the set of user activity data may be arranged in a user check in activity table for each place Step . illustrates an example of user check in activity table for a place. In one implementation the places service accesses the user profile database using the user identifier in the check in request to identify one or more friends of the user and for each place determines the check in activity of the one or more friends at each place. In one implementation location database maintains check in data including for a given check in the name of the place a time stamp corresponding to the check in a user identifier associated with the check in a geographic location of the user provided in the check in request and if applicable a list of any friend s the user tagged in connection with a given check in event. Places service may use the time stamp to build a count of total number of check ins at a place and a count of recent check ins at the place where recent is defined by a threshold period of time like the last week or some other period of time. The values in the check in activity table can be based on the number of check ins by users that corresponding to each entry in the left most column illustrated in . In some implementations the number of users that have been tagged in connection with a check in may also count as a separate check in or some weighted amount. In some implementations a tagged user check in is only counted if the tagged user approves or acknowledges the check in. In other implementations more recent check ins whether in the total number or recent column relative to a current search are weighted more highly than older check ins. For example a check in recorded yesterday may have a recency weight of 1 while a check in recorded 7 days ago may have a recency weight of 0.5. In addition the friends check in field may be limited to first degree friends or extended to additional degrees of separation. Degrees of separation may also be used to weight each check in. Accordingly the values in each field of the table may represent a weighted sum of check ins based on time of check in and the degrees of separation of each associated user from the instant user. For example some places may be temporary and associated with an event. The weight accorded to a check in can decay based on time so that places corresponding to a non recurring event are down ranked in the list of places. In addition check ins from more highly trusted users who may or may not be friends with the user may be weighted more highly than other check ins. An example process of determining the level of trustworthiness of a user based on user actions is described more generally in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 701 744 filed on Feb. 2 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

In particular embodiments places service may additionally include events and other user data in the set of check in activity data for each place. In other words an event created by a user that identifies a particular place may be counted in a similar manner to a check in. For example a user configures an event where the location or place is Caf X around Downtown San Mateo Calif. and assuming is the check in activity table for a place cafeX . If the user created this particular place in location database in connection with an event then places service can increment a number of user check ins for the place corresponding to the event. If a friend of the user marked this place last month as the friend s my favorite coffee shop as part of the event then places service can increment number of recent check ins by friends.

In particular embodiments places service may rank places in the set of one or more places near the user s current location by computing a ranking score for each place. The ranking score may be based on a distance between the user s current location and a geographic location of each place and one or more values corresponding to check in activity of one or more social contacts of the user for each place Step . In one implementation the ranking score may be an aggregation of seven component scores where a first component score is based on distance and the six remaining component scores CS to CS are based in part on the values in the social activity table. In one implementation the ranking score may be computed according to the following equation Ranking Score Distance Weighted Sum of Component Scores 1 to .

In addition the six component scores may be individually weighted. In one implementation the component scores are weighted relative to the distance component score to reflect how much social context as reflected in a component score is worth relative to distance. In some implementations social context as reflected in the social context component scores of the activity table is limited to no more than a threshold distance. This may be a global limit or a limit for each component score. For example if a user requests to check in a nearby coffee shop places service can rank a coffee shop X that is 60 meters away from the user s current location higher than another coffee shop Y that is 30 meters from the user s current location because either the user friends of the user or a global set of users has checked in to coffee shop X far more times than coffee shop Y. For example places services can rank a coffee shop that a user s friend just checked in 10 minutes ago higher than another coffee shop that none of the user s friends has checked in during the past 3 hours.

In one implementation the ranking function is designed to be constant over time for places with constant popularity defined by a rate of check ins. In particular consider a didactic example in which the popularity of a set of places does not change meaning that each place will have some rate of check ins. The ranking function in one implementation does not change ranking as the number of check ins grows over time. This can be accomplished by expressing check ins as a fraction of a maximum number in each component category and using that as a basis for ranking. For example the weighting applied to the total number of user check ins at a place may be based on the total number of check ins by the user across all places. For example the system can use a weighting function that receives as inputs a maximum count and the actual count CS CS etc. in a given component category and returns a value between 0 and 1. In one implementation the weight is set to zero when the instant count is zero and is set to 1 when the instant count equals the maximum count. Between this value range the weight value may fall off logarithmically as the ratio of instant count count over maximum count max decreases. A parameter small count tolerance controls the falloff rate. When the ratio drops below 1 small count tolerance the weight will be zero. The following table shows how the falloff may vary according to one possible implementation. Each row is a hypothetical value of small count tolerance. Each column corresponds to count expressed as a fraction of max. The number reported is the weight that would be returned.

A reason for a logarithmic drop off in weight is to support meaningful weights for a range of check in counts below the max. For example if there is one place with many more check ins than others it may be desirable to resolve difference in popularity among the other places in the event that the one with the most check ins is not the one for which the user is looking. The following provides a pseudocode function genWeight that returns a weight based on the inputs discussed above.

In one implementation a weighting is computed for each component category CS CS etc. using the function described above. This weighting is then used to multiple a value that is returned by another function that equates the count of a given component e.g. CS to a distance value. All of the weighted component distance values are then added to the determined distance to compute the score for a given place.

In one implementation each of the component scores based on the social factors identified above is evaluated independently in other implementations however the factors may be considered holistically. For example if a user has checked in at his house a certain number of times such as 10 which is the highest number of check ins associated with the user of the nearby places. This should be considered relative to a nearby place that has a relatively much larger number of check ins by all users of the social network.

In particular embodiments places service may provide the user the set of the one or more places near the user s current location in ranked order to allow the user to select it for a check in Step .

While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic and not limiting purposes. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. Network environment also includes one or more data storage linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example places service and social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example event database may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation look aside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

