---

title: Methods and devices for optimization of magnetic resonance imaging protocols
abstract: MRI techniques are widely and successfully applied in medicine and biophysics because MRI provides good contrast between different soft tissues without ionizing radiation. MRI protocols are optimized in four aspects: imaging parameters, k-space strategies, RF system calibration and contrast inhomogeneity correction. The signal intensities of normal and disease tissues are simulated, for example, using Bloch equations for an imaging sequence with tissue MR parameters. The relationships between imaging parameters and tissue contrasts are calculated using the numerically simulated signal intensities. The optimal imaging parameters and/or k-space strategies are determined to maximize image contrast and minimize artifacts with acceptable spatial-temporal resolution based on characterization of the imaging hardware. The RF system is optionally calibrated to improve the accuracy of the imaging parameters and reduce inter-scanner variability. Additionally, contrast-to-noise inhomogeneity caused by transmit field and receive sensitivity is optionally corrected by optimal flip angle and measured receiver sensitivity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09339239&OS=09339239&RS=09339239
owner: Ohio State Innovation Foundation
number: 09339239
owner_city: Columbus
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130910
---
Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI is one of the most important modern medical imaging modalities. It has far less risk of side effects than most other imaging modalities such as radioscopy with x rays or computed tomography because patient and medical personal are not subjected to ionizing radiation exposure in the procedure. The use of MRI has grown very fast. Every year more than 30 million MRI scans are performed in the United States more than 60 million MRI scans are performed worldwide. Doctors often recommend MRI for the diagnoses of various diseases such as tumors strokes heart problems and spine disease. A high quality scan is important for maximizing diagnostic sensitivity and making the right diagnosis. Generally a high quality image requires high signal to noise ratio SNR high contrast between normal and pathological tissues low levels of artifact and reasonable and acceptable spatial temporal resolution.

In order to obtain a detectable MR signal the object examined is positioned in a homogeneous static magnetic field so that the object s nuclear spins generate net magnetization oriented along the static magnetic field. The net magnetization is rotated away from the static magnetic field using a radio frequency RF excitation field with the same frequency as the Larmor frequency of the nucleus. The rotated angle is determined by the field strength of the RF excitation pulse and its duration. In the end of the RF excitation pulse the nuclei in relaxing to their normal spin conditions generate a decaying signal the MR signal at the same radio frequency as that used for excitation. The MR signal is picked up by a receive coil amplified and processed. The acquired measurements are digitized and stored as complex numerical values in a k space matrix. An associated MR image can be reconstructed from the k space data for example by an inverse 2D or 3D fast Fourier transform FFT from raw data which are collected in the spatial frequency domain the k space .

Described herein are methods and devices for optimization of MRI protocols including the optimization of imaging parameters k space strategies and RF system calibration to enhance image quality and improve detection sensitivity of path physiological changes. Additionally methods and devices to correct inhomogeneous contrast caused by non uniform transmit field and receiver sensitivity are described.

Disclosed herein are optimized MRI protocols for acquiring high quality MRI images. In accordance with this disclosure there is provided a method which simulates signal intensity and contrast using Bloch equations with tissue MR parameters. Other implementations of this disclosure provide initial imaging parameters for further optimization of imaging parameters. The initial optimal imaging parameters are determined by the relationship between imaging parameters and tissue contrasts. Yet other implementations provide a method for optimizing k space strategies. K space center is filled with the k space line that gives rise to the maximum contrast. Optimized k space strategy is determined by both maximal contrast and minimal image artifacts. The disclosure further provides a method for optimizing k space strategies for limited k space strategies. This disclosure also describes the use of RF calibration to reduce variability caused by hardware systems. Another implementation of the disclosure is to reduce or eliminate the contrast inhomogeneity caused by both transmit field and receive sensitivity. Also provided is a technique for evaluating performance of the imaging parameters in MRI.

In accordance with other aspects of the disclosure are systems and methods to optimize imaging parameters and or k space strategies so that high quality MR images can be acquired using current MRI facility. This is achieved by a method for simulation and iterative actual measurements including the following steps obtaining one or more MR parameters for a tissue where the tissue includes a normal or pathological e.g. diseased tissue simulating at least one image quality metric e.g. using Bloch equations for the MRI sequence and the MR parameters for the tissue where the image quality metric includes a contrast metric optimizing one or more imaging parameters by maximizing the image quality metric and minimizing an image artifact and acquiring the MR images using the optimized imaging parameters.

Optionally the MRI sequence can be any MRI sequence for acquiring MR images of a subject with acceptable spatial temporal resolution. For example the MRI sequence can be any one of gradient echo sequence including the MP RAGE or FLASH sequence for example echo planar sequence spin echo sequence and rapid acquisition relation enhanced imaging e.g. turbo spin echo fast spin echo . The MRI sequence can also be combined with one or more of parallel imaging techniques compress sensing and or contrast agent MRI. It should be understood however that the above MRI sequences are provided only as examples and that this disclosure contemplates using other MRI sequences.

Optionally the one or more imaging parameters include but are not limited to a repetition time TR an echo time TE a variable flip angle a variable refocusing angle magnetization preparation pulses fat saturation pulses inversion times a bandwidth an echo train length an echo space time or a readout RF number. Alternatively or additionally the one or more imaging parameters are within predetermined ranges imposed by hardware system or safety limitations. For example the hardware system e.g. one or more magnets and gradient strength thereof RF coil acquisition bandwidth etc. can limit the range of useable imaging parameters. Similarly safety limitations such as specific absorption rate or nerve stimulation can also limit the range of useable imaging parameters. This disclosure contemplates that the optimized imaging parameters can be selected from within the predetermined ranges. Optionally the one or more imaging parameters facilitate detection of at least one of a path physiological change physiological change electrophysiological change or disease in tissue.

Optionally the image quality metric includes but is not limited to signal intensity SNR SNR efficiency contrast contrast to noise CNR or CNR efficiency. Additionally the image artifact includes but is not limited to signal inhomogeneity SNR inhomogeneity contrast inhomogeneity CNR inhomogeneity signal loss geometry distortion or image ghost.

Optionally the MR parameters are static field strength and pathophysiology dependent. Optionally the MR parameters can be normal or abnormal MR parameters. For example the MR parameters include but are not limited to Trelaxation Trelaxation Tstar relaxation proton density diffusion magnetic susceptibility oxygen deoxgen hemoglobin or magnetization transfer. This disclosure contemplates that the MR parameters can include other parameters related to signal intensity and tissue contrast. It should be understood that the MR parameters can be obtained from literature and or by experiment.

Optionally as described above the method can further include performing a calibration to determine a calibration factor where the calibration factor relates theoretical imaging parameters to actual imaging parameters of an MRI scanner correcting the optimized imaging parameters based on the calibration factor and acquiring the MR images with the MRI scanner using the corrected imaging parameters.

Alternatively or additionally the method can further include refining the optimized imaging parameters based on the acquired MR images.

Optionally the MRI images are acquired using an optimal k space strategy or a predetermined k space strategy.

Most MR image information contrast and general shape is contained in the center of the k space. The low spatial frequency components in the center of the k space have the highest amplitudes giving rise to the greatest changes in image contrast. High spatial frequency components in the peripheral of the k space have lower amplitudes. They have very little effect on image contrast or general shape but sharpen the image as they encode edges. The higher the spatial frequency the k space covers the better the spatial resolution will be. Therefore the k space zero line largely determines image contrast. With a rectilinear k space trajectory there are three k space sampling orders sequential order centric order and reverse centric order. These conventional k space sampling orders limit k space zero filling into specific position beginning center and end and restrict the optimization of k space strategies. The optimization of k space strategy is achieved with the following steps setting independent image parameters where the independent image parameters are independent of a k space strategy in an imaging sequence simulating a relationship between each respective k space acquisition and at least one image quality metric that includes a contrast metric optimizing the k space strategy to maximize the image quality metric and minimize an image artifact and acquiring at least one MR image using the optimized k space strategy. The independent image parameters are set according to one of MRI safety such as specific absorption rate hardware limitation such as gradient strength and expected image resolution.

Optionally the independent image parameters can include repetition time TR spatial resolution repetition time acquisition bandwidth and parallel acquisition factors in MRI sequences.

Optionally the k space strategy includes a k space trajectory and a sampling order. An example sampling order is an order consistent with contrast order from maximum to minimum contrast metric for example. The k space trajectory can include at least one of rectilinear radial echo planar imaging spiral projection reconstruction random k space trajectory under sampled k space trajectory and partial k space sampling trajectory and the sampling order can include at least one of a sequential centric interleave reverse or random sampling order. Optionally the optimal k space strategy is the k space trajectory and sampling order that achieves maximum contrast and minimum image artifact for example as determined by computer simulation. In some instances a trade off between contrast and image artifact is considered particularly if k space zero line filling leads to a large image artifact.

Alternatively or additionally optimizing the k space strategy to maximize the image quality metric and minimize an image artifact optionally further includes filling a k space zero line using a k space acquisition having the maximum contrast metric where the contrast metric includes at least one of a contrast CNR or a CNR efficiency and designing a k space trajectory and or sampling order to minimize the image artifact where the image artifact comprises at least one of signal inhomogeneity SNR inhomogeneity contrast inhomogeneity CNR inhomogeneity signal loss geometry distortion or image ghost. Optionally the optimal k space zero line corresponds to a maximum contrast CNR or CNR efficiency. The contrast of each k space center can optionally depend on echo space time inversion recovery time flip angle or the number of RF readout pulses for example.

Alternatively or additionally simulating a relationship between each respective k space acquisition and at least one image quality metric optionally further includes using Bloch equations for the imaging sequence and tissue MR parameters described above . One or more imaging parameters that are both dependent and independent on the k space strategy can also be used in the Bloch equations.

Optionally the imaging sequence includes at least one of a gradient echo sequence an echo planar sequence or a spin echo sequence with or without magnetization preparation.

Optionally the image quality metric includes at least one of signal intensity SNR SNR efficiency contrast CNR and CNR efficiency.

Optionally optimizing the k space strategy to maximize the image quality metric and minimize the image artifact further includes optimizing the k space strategy under limited conditions where the limited conditions include at least one of a predetermined k space trajectory a predetermined sampling order or predetermined imaging parameters. It should be understood that an MRI scanner may have limited conditions for example as imposed by hardware system or safety limitations as described above. Thus this disclosure contemplates that the k space strategy can be optimized within the limited conditions.

Generally RF system calibration is based on virtual objects. The flip angle in MRI protocols is estimated based on the calibration. In practice the coupling between coil configuration and a physical object strongly affect RF distribution and RF calibration factor. The position and orientation between the physical object and the coil will also lead to changes in calibration. Thus it is necessary to calibrate the RF system in vivo. A RF system can be calibrated by putting an object in an MR scanner for in vivo RF system calibration acquiring a set of signal intensity images of the object by using MR scans conducted at different flip angles in vivo estimating a relative flip angle map and then relative transmit field maps with the images acquired at different flip angles determining the calibration factor of the transmit RF field or flip angles with the assumption of a linear relationship between nominal flip angles and the measured flip angles and correcting absolute flip angles using the calibration factor.

Optionally the estimated transmit field is determined by estimating a relative flip angle map using the image SI x estimating a relative transmit field map for the plurality of signal intensity images each acquired using different imaging parameters determining a calibration factor based on a linear relationship between the nominal flip angles and the measured flip angles for each nominal flip angle and calculating an absolute flip angle corresponding to the nominal flip angles for each nominal flip angle.

Optionally the calibration factor of RF field or flip angle is calculated with the measured flip angles or the signal intensity of the images with various flip angles. The method to determine the actual flip angles is based on a linear relationship between the measured flip angles and nominal flip angles.

Image inhomogeneity caused by RF coil configuration and wave behavior can lead to position dependent signal intensity and contrast. The effect of CNR inhomogeneity on image quality becomes important at tissue boundaries when partial volume effect is considered. CNR inhomogeneity caused by transmit field can be corrected by simulating tissue contrast for an MRI acquisition sequence e.g. using Bloch equations finding one or more optimal imaging parameters for reducing a sensitivity of a contrast inhomogeneity caused by non uniform acquisition conditions such as non uniform transmit field for example. The method can also include acquiring a set of signal intensity images using the optimal imaging parameters estimating a receive sensitivity registering the receive sensitivity with the set of signal intensity images to produce a relative correction matrix normalizing the relative correction matrix to obtain a correction matrix and correcting the contrast inhomogeneity caused by the receive sensitivity in the set of signal intensity images by calculating a ratio of the set of signal intensity images by the correction matrix.

It should be understood that the receive sensitivity or receive coil sensitivity map receive coil profile etc. can be estimated by any known technique. For example the receive sensitivity can be estimated from the set of signal intensity images and or phase images or from electromagnetic field measurement. Additionally the relative correction matrix can be normalized to a predetermined value for example a value that keeps SNR or CNR constant before or after the correction.

Optionally the optimal imaging parameters for reducing the sensitivity of contrast inhomogeneity caused by the non uniform transmit field include but are not limited to a repetition time flip angle inversion recovery time echo space time or resolution.

Optionally the non uniform acquisition conditions include but are not limited to a non uniform transmit field non uniform static magnetic field or non linear gradient field. Additionally at least one of the non uniform transmit field non uniform static magnetic field or non linear gradient field are caused by at least one of a coil configuration wave behavior tissue susceptibility BO shimming or eddy current for example.

Optionally the receive sensitivity is estimated using at least one of a set of signal intensity images and or phase images or electromagnetic field measurement.

In summary described herein are methods and systems where imaging parameters are iteratively modified and optimized to maximize CNR with the initial inputs estimated using numerically simulated signal intensities and contrasts. K space strategies are determined by numerical simulations based on maximizing contrasts and minimizing artifacts and then optionally modified and confirmed using in vivo experiments. RF system is optionally calibrated to reduce the error and variability caused by different hardware conditions. Moreover the contrast inhomogeneity caused by both transmit field and receive sensitivity can optionally be corrected.

It should be understood that the above described subject matter may also be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium.

Other systems methods features and or advantages will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present disclosure. As used in the specification and in the appended claims the singular forms a an the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term comprising and variations thereof as used herein is used synonymously with the term including and variations thereof and are open non limiting terms. The terms optional or optionally used herein mean that the subsequently described feature event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where said feature event or circumstance occurs and instances where it does not. While implementations will be described for optimizing k space strategies and or imaging parameters and correcting image inhomogeneity with regard to MRI modalities it will become evident to those skilled in the art that the implementations are not limited thereto but are applicable to other image modalities such as computed tomography for example. Additionally this disclosure contemplates that MRI modalities include MRI techniques with administration of contrast agents for example contrast enhanced MR angiography. This disclosure contemplates that the images obtained using the techniques described herein can be directly employed in at least one of diagnosing diseases monitoring therapy responses conducting treatment plan and improving quantification of MRI. For example the techniques described herein can be used for the diagnoses of specific diseases such as the standardization of the MRI protocol in The Alzheimer s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. Additionally the techniques described herein are optionally applicable to a group of individuals in a similar path physiological situation.

Early methods for optimizing imaging parameters focused on maximizing SNR which resulted in SNRs far in excess of what is required to detect pathologies being investigated in current clinical MRI systems. In most cases the contrast between normal and disease tissues not the SNR is a better metric for diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of the disease. One main goal for optimizing imaging parameters can therefore be maximizing tissue contrast or contrast to noise ratio CNR and or CNR efficiency instead of SNR. Generally imaging parameters are usually iteratively optimized through experimentation with multiple scans of a subject. Because the process is very time consuming and cost intensive particularly in the case with very long acquisition times the experimental approach is usually not practical in clinical settings. In the techniques described herein signal intensities for interested tissues are numerically estimated for example using Bloch equations with tissue MR parameters that are either measured or obtained from the literature. The initial optimized image parameters are determined based on maximizing tissue contrasts and minimizing artifacts as well as noise. The optimized imaging parameters are refined using actual measurements from in vivo experiments based on the initial optimized image parameters.

For example MR images are reconstructed by an inverse 2D or 3D fast Fourier transform FFT from raw data which are collected in the spatial frequency domain the k space . Optimal k space strategy including sampling trajectory and order is a critical component in enhancing image quality. Sampling trajectory closely relate to the point spread function PSF of the imaging system can be used to evaluate image artifacts. Image contrast can be enhanced by optimizing sampling order. It is known that k space zero line sampling is one of the major factors that determine image contrast. If each k space line corresponds to the same contrast for example in FLASH sequence acquisition k space zero line filled with any acquired k space line will not change image contrast. If each k space line corresponds to a different contrast k space zero line filled with different acquired k space lines will lead to different image contrasts. In most cases the operator may not be able to ascertain the suitability of a sampling trajectory and order without an unduly large number of trials. According to techniques described herein optimization of k space strategies is performed using numerical simulations with great savings on time and costs.

MRI protocol optimization is important not only for image quality improvement and artifact reduction but also for reducing the variability of images acquired across different sites and different time points in longitudinal studies. The latter is crucial for increasing statistical power and reducing the number of required subjects in MR studies. It is well known that hardware condition strongly affects the variability of MR images. It is common practice to adjust the strength of the transmitted RF excitation field and the gain of the RF receiver to ensure that the RF excitation pulses have the optimal frequency strength and duration to evoke the desired MR signal before the commencement of each MR scan. However this does not necessarily mean that the hardware condition will be stable over time while in practice it most likely varies longitudinally. Thus daily monthly and annual quality assurance of MR scanner can be done according to the requirements of American College of Radiology. Even with same parameters big variability in image quality may still exist due to various factors such as machine specific static magnetic field inhomogeneity and different gradient and RF coil systems. For example previous studies found that transmit field inhomogeneity can be as large as 15 and the RF calibration factor defined as the ratio between the actual flip angle and flip angle specified by the operator during the scan is about 0.80 for the SIEMENS 32 channel head coil in human brain imaging using the SIEMENS MAGNETOM TRIO of SIEMENS AG of MUNICH GERMANY. Transmit field inhomogeneity can introduce about 15 variation in flip angle across the brain. In addition RF calibration factor can introduce a 20 system error between the theoretical and real flip angles. Thus according to the techniques described herein the RF system is calibrated to reduce system errors.

Moreover inhomogeneous contrast is also an important factor in voxel based morphometry VBM analyses because it will affect the qualification at tissue boundaries when the tissue classification algorithm takes partial volume effects into account. It is not corrected by general post processing methods. Contrast inhomogeneity partly results from spatially varying Tand inhomogeneous transmit field. It should be understood that it is difficult to correct CNR inhomogeneity and therefore few works on this subject have been performed. According to techniques described herein contrast inhomogeneity is reduced or eliminated by both the optimal choice of FA and measured receive sensitivity.

Three types of imaging parameters are defined herein 1 Theoretical parameters are defined as the parameters obtained from theoretical analysis and simulations 2 Nominal parameters are those input by the operator to acquire the images and 3 Real parameters are the actual parameters realized in the imaging process which can be estimated from experimental data. Ideally these three types of parameters are identical but in real world applications they are not always the same. Unlike subject independent parameters e.g. repetition time TR and echo time TE flip angle FA is subject dependent that is there may exist big differences between its real and nominal values across human brains. The difference can cause inconsistent image quality across subjects sites and time. To be consistent FA can be calibrated as shown by the equation below. where is the optimized nominal FA. k is called calibration factor and is a constant when FA

As described above the techniques described herein can be used for optimizing any MR sequence. Very high quality structural images are required for diagnosis and research. Additionally the sequences for structural imaging are the most popular sequences in both clinical and research settings. Thus optimizing the structural imaging sequences are provided as examples only. In other words the examples focus on the optimization of two popular sequences for structural images e.g. MP RAGE and FLASH but this disclosure contemplates that any MR sequence can be used.

The MP RAGE sequence is composed of 3D inversion recovery a and N equally spaced readout RF pulses of flip angle and echo spacing . Repetition time TR is defined as the time interval between two successive inversion recovery pulses as shown by Eq. 1 below. 1 where is echo spacing time N is the total number of readout RF pulses TI is the time interval between the inversion recovery pulse and the first RF readout pulse and TD is delay time. In order to simplify the formula for signal intensity exp TI T exp T exp TR T exp TD T and cos are defined. For successive excitations in the MP RAGE sequence signal intensity from the iread out pulse is given by Eq. 2 below.

The white matter WM and gray matter GM contrast from the iread out RF pulse is given by Eq. 4 below. 4 where sand sare the signal intensities of WM and GM which can be calculated using Eq. 2 with the longitudinal relaxation times and protein densities of WM and GM respectively. In Eq. 4 GM WM contrast is a function of N TI and the temporal position of the read out RF pulse. Generally the smaller the acquisition bandwidth is the higher SNR and CNR are. A small acquisition bandwidth will introduce a large . In the MRI scanner used in examples i.e. SIEMENS MAGNETOM TRIO of SIEMENS AG of MUNICH GERMANY with Software NUMARIS 4 Version Syngo MR B17 DHHS the example scanner as used herein the largest of 10.1 ms corresponds to the smallest bandwidth of about 140 Hz pixel for the MP RAGE sequence. For of 10.1 ms the simulation suggests that the optimal FA should be 12 . N is usually determined by the size of the image coverage e.g. whole brain and slice resolution. The read out RF pulse used to fill the k space center is determined by k space sampling order. It should be understood that for a sequence in a commercial scanner such as the example scanner the k space strategy including k space trajectory and sampling order may be fixed by a given setting. Thus the temporal position of the RF pulse that lead to maximum GM WM contrast of a simulated image acquired with the MP RAGE sequence at 3.0 Tesla was first computed using computer simulations without considering the pre determined scanner settings. Then the optimal k space sampling for settings that can be realized on the commercial scanner were determined.

Although it is a property in the image domain that is determined by all Fourier components in the entire k space contrast between WM and GM is mostly determined by k space center which are associated with the low spatial frequency components in k space. According to Eqs. 2 4 GM and WM contrast from the iread out RF pulse is a function of the temporal position of the RF pulse and the total number of read out RF pulses N. The major objective of k space optimization is to optimize the k space trajectory such that k space center has the maximal Con. As described above because the example scanner has a few fixed k space sampling settings it was not possible to reach the theoretically optimal k space sampling for MP RAGE in experiments. Instead the k space sampling was optimized for the available settings on the example scanner.

Effects of the major imaging parameters e.g. number of readout RF pulses flip angle TI and TD were simulated using Bloch s equations based on the values of T T and proton density of the WM GM and CSF of the human brain which at 3.0 T are 1400 850 3500 ms 100 90 300 ms and 0.75 0.65 1.0 respectively. Relaxation effects during RF excitation were neglected and perfect spoiling of transverse magnetization was assumed after each inversion pulse and before each excitation pulse. Signal intensity and contrast of brain tissues were respectively simulated using Eqs. 2 and 4 using MATLAB of MATH WORKS INC. of NATICK Mass. Optimal imaging parameters were determined based on simulation results and validated by in vivo experiments.

In the simulations was limited by the hardware e.g. the example scanner s acquisition bandwidth and pulse duration time and total scan time. On the example scanner the largest of 10.1 ms corresponds to the smallest bandwidth of about 130 Hz pixel for the MP RAGE sequence. Setting to 10.1 ms the effect of FA on signal intensities and tissue contrasts was simulated using Eq. 4 to find the optimal FA. At the optimal FA signal intensities of GM and WM and GM WM contrast were computed as functions of the number of readout RF pulses for different TIs. The functional relationship between GM WM contrast and TI was simulated to obtain the optimized TI. Finally GM WM and CSF signal intensities vs. different TDs were simulated to find the optimized TD.

As described above three types of imaging parameters are defined 1 Theoretical parameters are defined as the parameters obtained from theoretical analysis and simulations 2 Nominal parameters are those input by the operator on the MR system to acquire images and 3 Real parameters are the actual parameters realized in the imaging process. As for subject independent parameters e.g. TR and TE these three types of parameters are always identical. However this is not true for subject and or position dependent parameters. For example FA is subject dependent and position dependent. Therefore there may be differences between real and nominal FA values across different brains and across different regions of a brain. These difference can cause inconsistent image quality across subjects sites and or over time. To reduce the inconsistency FA can be calibrated using measured flip angle maps as shown by Eq. 5 below. 5 where is the optimized nominal flip angle. k is called the calibration factor. k is a constant when FA

In order to quantitatively evaluate image quality SNR and CNR efficiencies are introduced to evaluate the quality of the images acquired with different imaging parameters because both SNR and CNR are functions of total scan time. The SNR efficiency SNR defined as SNR per square root total scan time TA is given by Eq. 6 below. SNR SNR 6 

A single type of tissue may have different signal intensities because of signal inhomogeneity caused by non uniform transmit field and receive sensitivity. Thus SNR of the single tissue cannot be used to evaluate the image quality. Instead global SNR was used as an indicator to evaluate the image quality avoiding the error caused by signal inhomogeneity.

Similarly the CNR efficiency is defined as CNR per square root total scan time TA as given by Eq. 7 below. CNR CNR 7 

In order to avoid effects of image inhomogeneity contrasts between nearby tissues were used to assess image quality. Noise and artifact level were determined by subtracting two images acquired with identical imaging parameters at different times.

As shown in Eq. 4 GM WM contrast is a function of N TI and the temporal position of the read out RF pulse. Generally the total number of RF pulses N is related to the spatial resolution along the slice direction. In vivo experiments confirmed that N was chosen to be 176 for whole brain coverage at a slice thickness of 1 mm on the example scanner scanner. To simplify the problem N 176 FA 12 and 10.1 ms were set in the example optimization. FA 12 was chosen based on simulation results shown below. The same procedure can be used for different Ns FAs and s. shows the simulated signal intensity of the CSF and GM WM contrast as a function of the temporal position of the read out RF pulse for different TIs. The SNR of the CSF is illustrated because the signal intensity of the CSF is the lowest among the major brain tissues CSF GM and WM in T weighted images acquired with the MP RAGE sequence. If the SNR of the CSF is acceptable the SNRs of the GM and WM would be acceptable. When the temporal position of the read out RF pulse is more than 30 the signal intensity of the CSF increases monotonically with increasing TI and the temporal position of the readout RF pulse as shown in . iis defined as the temporal position of the read out RF pulse that corresponds to the maximum GM WM contrast. shows that ishifts to lower values with increasing TI. It is in general not equal to half of the total number of readout RF pulses for example it is 80 but not 88 when TI 0. That is the center of the readout RF pulse does not necessarily lead to maximal GM WM contrast. GM WM contrast increases but the idecreases with increasing TI. When the tradeoff between GM WM contrast and CSF signal intensity is taken into account the theoretical ishould be in the range from 30 to 80 for the various TIs. In general for fixed FA and the GM WM contrast is a function of N TI and the temporal position of the read out RF pulse iis a function of N and TI. For a fixed N iis a function of TI.

Although the example scanner limits the k space center to the center of the read out RF pulses it is possible to shift k space center by slice partial Fourier factors which can be set as off e.g. 1 7 8 and 6 8. When the nominal N is 176 slice partial Fourier factors of off 7 8 and 6 8 correspond to real Ns of 176 156 and 132 respectively. In that case k space center acquisition on the example scanner is respectively set to be the 88 66and 44read out RF pulse. In the examples k space sampling is optimized among the available settings on the example scanner by determining the optimal partial Fourier setting. The pre set read out RF temporal position may not necessarily equal to i.

As described above due to scanner limitations experiments could not be conducted with the theoretically optimal i. Instead further simulations and experiments were limited to the settings that can be achieved on the example scanner. In other words the choice of real N associated with a nominal N and the temporal position of k space center are fixed on the example scanner. TI can only vary freely to obtain maximum GM WM contrast under the constraints of the example scanner. Computer simulations were used to find the optimal TI TIthat produces the maximal GM WM contrast. In the example scanner k space center is given at 88 66and 44for a nominal N of 176 with slice partial Fourier of off 7 8 and 6 8. The simulated GM WM contrast vs TI curves for different real Ns and corresponding k space centers are shown in . TIfor real N of 176 156 and 132 were around 50 300 and 500 ms respectively. The peaks in the CNR vs TI curves are relatively flat in . In the MP RAGE sequence the effective inversion recovery time TIis defined as the time interval between the inversion recover pulse and the RF read out pulse for k space center. Generally the readout RF pulse corresponding to ishould be used to fill k space center because k space center is a major determining factor of image contrast. Therefore the optimal TIis given by Eq. 8 below. TI TI . 8 

On the example scanner the theoretical icannot be achieved. Instead the pre set k space center can only be used. Thus iin Eq. 8 was replaced with the actual temporal position of the RF pulse for k space center and calculated TIusing Eq. 8. The optimal TIvalues are 940 967 and 945 for real Ns of 176 156 and 132 respectively. It is almost constant for the different real Ns. However both real N and k space center strongly affected WM GM contrast. The WM GM contrast when real N is 132 and the k space center is filled with the 44RF read out pulse was 10 more than that when real N is 176 and k space center is filled with the 88RF read out pulse.

In order to validate the simulation brain images were acquired without slice partial Fourier and with a slice partial Fourier factor of 6 8 . The other acquisition parameters including TI were identical. The results demonstrated that both the SNR and CNR of the images acquired with a slice partial Fourier factor of 6 8 were about 10 higher than those acquired without slice partial Fourier. The results from the in vivo experiments are in good agreement with the simulation results in . Therefore the optimal real N and k space center were chosen to be 132 and the 44 respectively among the realizable settings of the example scanner.

The simulated effects of FA on GM WM and CSF signal intensities and contrasts between the GM and WM and between the GM and CSF at 10.1 ms are shown in . Both signal intensities and contrasts first increased and then decreased with increasing FA. Signal intensity reached its maximum at FA around 10 for the WM and around 13 for the GM and CSF. After reaching their maximum values signal intensities declined slightly with increasing FA. The contrasts started to approach their asymptotic values at FA around 8 reaching their maxima at FA around 10 and declining slightly at FA around 12 . The contrast curve was almost flat when FA increased from 10 to 12 . That is inhomogeneous FA would have a small impact on the contrast when FA is in the range from 9 to 14 . The signal intensities and contrasts reached their maximum values at different FAs. Since maximizing CNR is more important than maximizing SNR for diagnosis and tissue segmentation the optimal FA was chosen to be 12 . With this FA GM WM contrast achieved maximal values and was insensitive to non uniform FA in different regions of the brain or across brains.

The real FA for a nominal FA of 12 was determined based on the estimated real FA values for nominal FAs of 60 and 120 because the relationship between the real and nominal FAs is linear . The real FAs were estimated using the double flip angle method at nominal FAs of 120 60 for which the error of the estimated real FAs was minimized. The maximum variation across different parts of the human brain was around 1.0 for a nominal FA of 12 . Inhomogeneous transmit field introduced less than 10 FA variation. The variation led to significant signal intensity changes but only slight contrast changes . As for the ten subjects in the example study the average real FA was 12 0.3 . The variation of FA across the ten subjects was less than 3 0.3 12 . The average calibration factor k Eq. 6 for the ten subjects was 0.98 0.002. The result indicated that the real FA was close to the nominal FA for the example scanner. Their difference was around 2 . The variation of the calibration factor k across subjects 0.2 0.002 0.98 was small. Thus it was not necessary to consider the effect of individual differences on the calibration factor for the example scanner.

The relationship between signal intensities of brain tissues and TD is shown in . All signal intensities of major brain tissues WM GM and CSF decreased with increasing TD. Additionally the contrasts among these brain tissues increased slightly with increasing TD. In vivo brain images acquired using the MP RAGE sequence with TD of 0 a 100 b 200 c and 400 ms d are shown in . ROI analysis showed that the SNRs of all brain tissues decreased around 18 when TD increased from 0 to 400 ms. On the other hand the CNR remained around 38 with increasing TD. The results from the in vivo experiments agreed extremely well with the simulations.

In order to evaluate the performance of the optimization procedure the quality of the images acquired using the optimal setting were compared with those acquired using imaging parameters recommended by Siemens ADNI and FreeSurfer. The ranking of image signal intensity and GM WM contrast from the highest to the lowest is the optimal imaging parameters recommended parameters in FreeSurfer Siemens default ADNI . Quantitative analysis indicated that the mean signal intensity and WM GM contrast of images acquired with the optimal image parameters was 15 higher than those of images acquired using the recommended parameters in FreeSurfer. To further evaluate these image qualities the distributions of noises and artifacts corresponding to these imaging parameters were generated by subtracting two images acquired with identical imaging parameters at different time. The ranking in noise and artifacts from the lowest to the highest is ADNI 

The SNR and CNR of T weighted image acquired with the MP RAGE sequence is sensitive to the variations and values of the real FA. In most cases the variations can contribute to signal intensity inhomogeneity strongly affecting the accuracy and precision of voxel based morphometric quantification and automatic diagnostic analysis. Various factors such as coil configuration tissue type and distribution strongly affect the distribution of the transmit field and RF calibration factor and therefore the real FA. It is desirable to calibrate transmit field for different subjects and coil configurations. shows that the theoretical FA from the simulation was in good agreement with the nominal and real FAs after RF calibration. The variation of FA across the brain was around 1 for a nominal FA of 12 . The inhomogeneous transmit field caused significant signal intensity variations but had little impact on the contrasts between brain tissues. If the CNR of two tissues is much greater than the variations of two tissue signal intensities the two tissues can be distinguished easily. The CNR inhomogeneity does not need to be converted to quantify and segment the two tissues. However the CNR of two tissues is comparable to or less than their signal intensity variations. The inhomogeneous signal intensity of the two tissues should be corrected to further improve signal inhomogeneity. FA can be calibrated and optimized to maximize CNR and reduced some effects of inhomogeneous transmit field on signal intensity inhomogeneity.

Various factors can affect the difference between the initial optimal imaging parameters and final optimal imaging parameters 1 In the simulation perfect spoiling was assumed and relaxation during RF pulses and off resonance artifacts were ignored. With increasing flip angle perfect spoiling becomes difficult. As a result imperfect spoiling affects the accurate estimation of signal intensity and other parameters such as relaxation time. Further studies of in vivo experiments at different flip angles indicated that artifacts and noise were most or less constant for flip angles from 8 to 14 . If the study objective is to segment brain tissues and quantify their volumes accurate estimation of signal intensity is not very important. The effect of imperfect spoiling can be ignored. However imperfect spoiling is problematic if the images acquired at large flip angles are used to estimate relaxation time. In that case Eq. 2 cannot be used to estimate the relaxation time precisely. 2 The MR parameters of brain tissues such as relaxation time and proton density vary across different brain regions of a single subject and across brains of different subjects. The variability was ignored in the simulation average MR parameters were used to estimate the initial optimized imaging parameters in the simulation. Thus in vivo experiments should be used to refine the optimal imaging parameters following simulation. In other words the simulation provided the range of the optimal imaging parameters and shortened the time for the optimization of MP RAGE sequence. Such simulation provided an excellent tool for MR sequence optimization reducing the costs of implementing untested prototypes on actual MRI systems.

In comparison to previous MP RAGE protocols SNR and CNR were optimized and improved by more than 15 when echo spacing increased from 8 to 10.1 ms and FA from 9 to 12 k space trajectory was optimized and improved CNR by more than 10 3 TD was minimized and enhanced the efficiency of MP RAGE sequence and 4 the total number of readout RF pulses was reduced using slice partial Fourier and slightly increased SNR and CNR. As a result an increase in CNR efficiency of around 33 was achieved for the optimization of MRI protocol as shown in

The FLASH sequence is composed of a series of N equally spaced readout RF pulses of flip angle and the repetition time. N is the total number of readout RF pulses TI is inversion recovery time and TD is delay time. In order to simplify the formula of signal intensity exp TR T and cos . For successive excitations in FLASH sequence the signal intensity after the iexcitation pulse is given using Eq. 9 below.

After gradient and RF spoiling complete spoiling of transverse magnetization was assumed to be achieved. MR signal becomes independent of T and follows Eq. 9. shows the dependence of simulated GM WM contrast efficiency on FA and TR using Eq. 10. The results demonstrate that high GM WM contrast efficiencies could be achieved with a large range of FAs and TRs. Since multiple settings of TRs and flip angles might be used to achieve high GM WM contrast efficiency to reduce total scan time and patient burden a short TR is preferred. The possible candidate TR and FA could be TR less than 20 ms and FA less than 30 . In order to further refine these two parameters GM WM contrast efficiency vs FA was simulated for a range of TRs 12 TR 18 ms . The contrast efficiency rapidly increased when FA was larger than 6 reaching its maximum at FA 16 TR 12 ms and then reduced very slowly with increasing FA. When TR increased from 12 to 18 ms the peak of the GM WM contrast efficiency vs FA curve shifted from 16 to around 20 . The GM WM contrast efficiency was almost the same when 15 FA 21 and 12 TR 14 ms. This was a very important result because it suggested that GM WM contrast efficiency did not depend on FA in this range. Therefore the impact of transmit field on GM WM contrast can be greatly reduced or eliminated if the actual FA falls within this range. It is suggested that the optimal TR should be 13 ms and the optimal FA should be between 16 to 18 based on considerations of the trade off between scan time and bandwidth which should be more than 100 Hz pixel to reduce signal loss. In the examples the optimal FA was finally chosen to be 17 to achieve maximum contrast efficiency and reduce the sensitivity of GM WM contrast to FA caused by non uniform transmit field.

A method for correcting inhomogeneous contrast in an MRI image is described below. It is first possible to correct for a sensitivity of a contrast inhomogeneity caused by non uniform acquisition conditions such as a non uniform transmit field for example. Other possible non uniform acquisition conditions include non uniform static magnetic field or non linear gradient field. For example tissue contrast for an MRI sequence can be simulated e.g. using Bloch equations and then optimal imaging parameters for reducing the sensitivity of the contrast inhomogeneity caused by the non uniform transmit field are found. Low resolution images were acquired using a segmented echo planar imaging EPI sequence to estimate FA and receive sensitivity maps. These low resolution images were interpolated and co registered with the high resolution image 1 1 1 mm acquired with the 3D FLASH sequence. The registrations were performed by a slightly modified version of a non rigid registration algorithm. The actual FA corresponding to a nominal FA of 60 was determined by the two images acquired with the segmented gradient EPI sequence using FAs of 60 and 120 respectively and then the actual FA corresponding to a nominal FA of 17 was determined by the linear relationship between the real and nominal FAs with the measured FA from a nominal FA of 60 . The in vivo FA map of the body coil was shown in . A minimal contrast brain image was acquired at TR TE of 2000 16 ms with FA of 90 to estimate receive sensitivity. The calculated receive sensitivity of the 32 channel head coil was shown in . CVs are 10.2 and 54.5 for the FA and the receive sensitivity maps respectively. The variation of the actual FAs across a human brain was less than 3.0 . This small FA variation only led to slight contrast changes when FA was 17 . In other words the contrast was insensitive to the inhomogeneity of the transmit field. However CNR inhomogeneity of the receive sensitivity still exists which can be corrected as described below. For example CNR inhomogeneity caused by non uniform receive sensitivity can be corrected by measured receive sensitivity using Eq. 11

In order to correct the CNR inhomogeneity caused by receive sensitivity a set of signal intensity images and or phase images can be acquired using the optimal imaging parameters e.g. parameters for reducing the sensitivity of the contrast inhomogeneity caused by the non uniform acquisition conditions described above . A receive sensitivity or receive coil sensitivity map receive coil profile etc. can be estimated by any known technique. For example the receive sensitivity can be estimated from the set of signal intensity images and or phase images or from electromagnetic field measurement. Then the receive sensitivity e.g. an image can be registered with the set of signal intensity images to produce a relative correction matrix. For example the receive sensitivity can be registered with the low resolution image acquired at the optimal FA to produce relative correction matrix. The relative correction matrix can be normalized to obtain a correction matrix. The relative correction matrix can be normalized to a predetermined value for example a value that keeps SNR or CNR constant before or after the correction. Finally the influence of non uniform receive sensitivity on the CNR inhomogeneity can be corrected by calculating a ratio of the set of signal intensity images and the correction matrix.

In summary according to the simulation results and measured FA maps the optimal FA can be chosen to not only maximize CNR efficiency but also reduce or remove the effect of transmit field on CNR inhomogeneity. In this case CNR inhomogeneity only resulted from non uniform receive sensitivity and was corrected using Eq. 11 with measured receive sensitivity based on the minimum contrast method. Therefore the proposed method can correct CNR inhomogeneity caused by both transmit field and receive sensitivity. The results in showed that this method greatly improved tissue histograms.

It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein with respect to the various figures may be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules i.e. software running on a computing device 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules i.e. hardware within the computing device and or 3 a combination of software and hardware of the computing device. Thus the logical operations discussed herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing device. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in a different order than those described herein.

Referring now to example operations for optimizing k space strategies are shown. At independent image parameters are set where the independent image parameters are independent of a k space strategy in an imaging sequence. At a relationship between each respective k space acquisition and at least one image quality metric is simulated. For example the relationships can be simulated using Bloch equations e.g. Eqs. 2 and 4 for MP RAGE sequence and Eqs. 9 and 10 for FLASH sequence . Additionally the image quality metric includes a contrast metric. At the k space strategy is optimized to maximize the image quality metric and minimize an image artifact. Then at an MR image is acquired using the optimized k space strategy.

Referring now to example operations for optimizing imaging parameters are shown. At one or more MR parameters for a tissue are obtained where the tissue includes a normal or pathological e.g. diseased tissue. At at least one image quality metric using Bloch equations for the MRI sequence and the MR parameters for the tissue are simulated. For example the image quality metric can be simulated using Bloch equations e.g. Eqs. 2 and 4 for MP RAGE sequences and Eqs. 9 and 10 for FLASH sequences . Additionally the image quality metric includes a contrast metric. At one or more imaging parameters are optimized by maximizing the image quality metric and minimizing an image artifact. The at the MRI images are acquired using the optimized imaging parameters. Optionally at a calibration is performed on an MR scanner to determine a calibration factor where the calibration factor relates theoretical imaging parameters to actual imaging parameters of the MRI scanner. Then at the optimized imaging parameters are corrected based on the calibration factor. At the MR images are acquired with the MRI scanner using the corrected imaging parameters.

Referring now to example operations for correcting for inhomogeneous contrast in an MRI image are shown. At tissue contrast for an MRI acquisition sequence are simulated using Bloch equations. For example the tissue contrast can be simulated using Bloch equations e.g. Eqs. 2 and 4 for MP RAGE sequences and Eqs. 9 and 10 for FLASH sequences . At one or more optimal imaging parameters for reducing a sensitivity of a contrast inhomogeneity caused by non uniform acquisition conditions e.g. non uniform transmit field can be found. At a set of signal intensity images and or phase images is acquired using the one or more optimal imaging parameters. At a receive coil sensitivity map or receive sensitivity receive coil profile etc. is estimated and at the receive sensitivity is registered with the set of signal intensity images and or phase images to produce a relative correction matrix. Then at the relative correction matrix is normalized to obtain a correction matrix. At the contrast inhomogeneity caused by the receive sensitivity in the set of signal intensity images is corrected by calculating a ratio of the set of signal intensity images and or phase images and the correction matrix.

When the logical operations described herein are implemented in software the process may execute on any type of computing architecture or platform. For example referring to an example computing device upon which embodiments of the invention may be implemented is illustrated. In particular the network device discussed above may be a computing device such as computing device shown in . It should be understood that the computing device can be incorporated in or remote from an MRI scanner such as the example MRI scanner described above. The computing device may include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information among various components of the computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line . The processing unit may be a standard programmable processor that performs arithmetic and logic operations necessary for operation of the computing device .

Computing device may have additional features functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage such as removable storage and non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tapes. Computing device may also contain network connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse touch screen etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. The additional devices may be connected to the bus in order to facilitate communication of data among the components of the computing device . All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

The processing unit may be configured to execute program code encoded in tangible computer readable media. Computer readable media refers to any media that is capable of providing data that causes the computing device i.e. a machine to operate in a particular fashion. Various computer readable media may be utilized to provide instructions to the processing unit for execution. Common forms of computer readable media include for example magnetic media optical media physical media memory chips or cartridges a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. Example computer readable media may include but is not limited to volatile media non volatile media and transmission media. Volatile and non volatile media may be implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data and common forms are discussed in detail below. Transmission media may include coaxial cables copper wires and or fiber optic cables as well as acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communication. Example tangible computer readable recording media include but are not limited to an integrated circuit e.g. field programmable gate array or application specific IC a hard disk an optical disk a magneto optical disk a floppy disk a magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state device RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices.

In an example implementation the processing unit may execute program code stored in the system memory . For example the bus may carry data to the system memory from which the processing unit receives and executes instructions. The data received by the system memory may optionally be stored on the removable storage or the non removable storage before or after execution by the processing unit .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by device and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination thereof. Thus the methods and apparatuses of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computing device the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

