---

title: Systems and methods for implementing custom privacy settings
abstract: A social network aggregation platform collects user generated content from multiple disparate social network platforms. The platform includes methods and systems for maintaining and applying user-selected and/or platform-specific privacy settings to the content when distributed or published. User privacy settings are compiled across platforms and used as a filter list against user-generated content. As a content stream is ingested into a platform, the source(s) of the invention content items are checked and the appropriate privacy settings are applied.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338186&OS=09338186&RS=09338186
owner: Lithium Technologies, Inc.
number: 09338186
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130426
---
This application claims priority to and the benefits of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 639 509 filed on Apr. 27 2012 the entire disclosure of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates generally to the publishing of shared content across multiple disparate social networks and more specifically for identifying and implementing user specific privacy policies on the shared content.

Social networking platforms such as Facebook Google FourSquare LinkedIn and Twitter have become deeply embedded into the social fabric of modern day life. These platforms are used for a variety of reasons ranging from individuals sharing daily activities and photos to corporations using them as valuable marketing and customer communication channels and news agencies using them as a broadcast platform. While creating a basic account on each of these platforms is relatively straightforward the options with regard to privacy soon become quite complex. Moreover the processes for selecting and implementing one s preferred privacy settings change frequently and often without notice. For example Facebook routinely changes how a user can implement certain privacy settings by implementing such features as allowing for a per post sharing option e.g. one can limit the viewing of a post to an individual or group the degrees of separation e.g. friends of friends that can access or comment on content as well as others.

Another common feature is the sharing of data from and among these disparate networks. This is implemented primarily through the use of application programming interfaces or APIs that provide access to the networks databases on a push updates are pushed to other applications and or pull an application may periodically query another application basis. Tweets for example created in Twitter are posted on the user s Facebook page. Updates to one s LinkedIn employment profile may show up as a status update in Google . A check in at a local restaurant on FourSquare may be posted as a tweet and as a status update on Twitter and Facebook simultaneously. As the content is shared on one platform and proliferates through others users can comment on the content by adding text images or other additional commentary resulting in a string of user generated content all falling under an initial post.

Recently sites such as Klout HootSuite and Sprout Social have begun aggregating data fees from individual social network platforms onto a single platform. This process provides a global view of content and its creators and illustrates both how content proliferates across the web and how an individual s profile can appear in many places often without their knowledge or permission. Moreover it allows multiple users who otherwise might not be connected to view and possibly comment on content submitted by others. This creates a challenge however because while the content itself may be shared among these disparate applications the posters privacy settings that govern its display is not. This can result in the unintended publication of a comment and or attribution of the content that was otherwise meant remain limited in its distribution.

There is a need therefore for methods and supporting systems that can identify query incorporate and implement privacy settings from multiple disparate social network platforms even as the content created in each platform is shared and aggregated across the web. Using such techniques would allow users to remain confident that the distribution of their commentary or other content will at all times be governed by their selected privacy settings regardless of where that content was displayed.

The techniques and systems described herein allow social network aggregation platforms to collect user generated content from multiple disparate social network platforms and networks and maintain and apply user selected and or platform specific privacy settings to the content when distributed or published. As a result individual comments images or other content that was added to a particular data stream or conversation that is visible to a particular population in one platform may or in some cases may not be available in another. In practice user privacy settings opt in opt out friends only public etc. are compiled and used as a filter list against user generated content. As a content stream is ingested into a platform the source s of the invention content items are checked. If a source has indicated that they do not want their comments shared beyond a certain circle of individuals or if they have opted out from the aggregation site generally their contribution s to the content stream are removed and only a subset of the stream is available for publishing.

Therefore in a first aspect embodiments of the invention provide a method for publishing user generated content consistent with multiple user specified privacy settings. The method includes storing and executing computer executable instructions for identifying and implementing user specified privacy settings related to user generated content and identified users having created the user generated content. When executed the instructions collect user generated content from a plurality of social network platforms and identify user specific information contained within or associated with the user generated content. User specified privacy policies associated with the identified users are applied to the content and the content is altered such that the content does not violate the user specified privacy policies.

The user generated content as well as the user specific information may include for example textual comment s image s and or a user identifier. The user generated content and or the user specified privacy policies may be accessed and collected via application programming interfaces APIs which may in certain instances be provided by the respective social network platform from which the content and policies are collected.

The user generated content may include user specific information attributed to more than one identified user and the user specified privacy policies attributed to the identified users can contain dissimilar settings. The settings may differ with respect to the respective social network platforms the respective identified users and or different elements of the user generated content.

Alteration of the content may for example include removal of one or more elements of user specific information and or the associated user identifier from the user generated content such that the user generated content is displayed without the removed user specific information.

In another aspect embodiments of the invention provide a system for administering a loyalty card program. The system includes a processor for executing computer executable instructions and a memory for storing the instructions resulting in an instantiation of a privacy policy enforcement application wherein the privacy policy enforcement application identifies and implements user specified privacy settings related to user generated content and identified users having created the user generated content. The application collects user generated content from a plurality of social network platforms and identifies user specific information contained within or associated with the user generated content. User specified privacy policies associated with the identified users are applied to the content and the content is altered such that the content does not violate the user specified privacy policies.

Alteration of the content may for example result in removal of certain elements of user specific information and or user identifiers associated with the information from the user generated content such that the user generated content is displayed without the removed user specific information.

In some implementations the system includes a data storage module for storing the collected user generated content and the user specified privacy settings related to the user generated content. The system may also include a collection of application programming interfaces each application programming interface being associated with at least one social network platform and used to collect user generated content and user specified privacy policies therefrom.

While many individuals participate in multiple networks the ability to see and react to data that may span multiple networks is difficult. Moreover because many individuals contribute content to multiple different networks identifying individuals that are truly influential on a particular topic can be challenging. As such the aggregation platform brings together content and user data from multiple disparate social networks to address these issues. In doing so however special challenges arise with respect to the use of users information and the adherence to their preferred privacy settings. A platform administrator implements the techniques and systems described herein to operate the application platform .

Referring now to and addressing the challenge noted above with respect to adherence to privacy policies User A may participate in multiple social networks each having a respective privacy policy and allowing User A to select define or otherwise indicate their preferred privacy settings. For example User A may wish to limit the availability of their personal information date of birth marital status hometown email address etc. to those individuals known to and approved by User A. Further User A may wish to limit the viewing of certain content e.g. posts comments photos tweets messages etc. to specific individuals or groups. The result of these selections is a particular privacy setting for that user on that network e.g. setting A for user A on social network setting A for user A on social network etc. .

To consolidate and or aggregate data across the multiple disparate networks the social network aggregation platform collects data from each network. The data may be collected for example via one or more application programming interfaces APIs . In some instances each social network may publish its own unique API whereas in other cases certain networks may utilize a common API. In either case the aggregation platform queries each individual social network using the appropriate API and receives user data and content. The scope of the user data received may be defined by certain policies of the individual networks such as limiting user data to non personally identifiable information content only or other constraints. In other cases the scope of the data collected may be based on a combination of platform wide policies e.g. LinkedIn s API usage guidelines and the individual user s preferences John Smith has elected to have his information remain confidential .

More specifically User A may decide that for a particular network that he uses all of his posts content images comments on other posts etc. may be republished without restriction. For another network however the same user may decide that only certain individuals may see content he creates. For example if User A uses the first network for professional purposes e.g. to write articles provide professional product reviews and post employment opportunities and uses the second for personal enjoyment posting pictures of children commenting on a college buddy s bachelor party etc. he may have different privacy settings for the two networks. As such User A is likely to want the privacy settings attributed to his ID and content to be respected regardless of where the data is published. Moreover an aggregation platform may allow for additional content publishing and sharing restrictions that may affect who sees User A s content by allowing the user to restrict publication attribution or identification of content on the aggregation site despite the settings in place on the underlying source networks.

As a result and referring to a dataset of user IDs and privacy settings may be compiled and maintained that describes generally a user population s desired content sharing preferences across multiple disparate social networks including a platform that collects and aggregates from each of the networks. The dataset may contain a unique user ID that is used to identify each user instance from each network. For example the User ID field may contain a string generated by using a hash function against the user s nickname or tag and the network from which the user s information was collected. Such an approach allows for duplicate user names across multiple networks but guarantees uniqueness for any username network combination. In some instances the dataset may also contain the user s nickname or tag e.g. StevenWhite or SteveWhite gmail.com . For each network from which data is collected certain privacy related settings are also stored. In the example of two different networks SN and SN are identified such that each user has either a Y or N associate with that network meaning the user either allows content from that network to be shared Y or does not N . Furthermore the dataset includes a field that stores the users privacy selection for the aggregation platform itself Agg Site Flag such that the site will either share information it has access to Y or not N . As a result an application can access this data and use the privacy and content sharing settings to modify its content publishing and or sharing practices to comply with multiple levels of source independent user preferences.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the structure and data shown in is for illustrative purposes and is shown in simplified form. For example the data may be stored in different logical tables or files and use various hash functions data types normalization algorithms and data structures to collect store update and retrieve such data. The data may be stored on a physical medium e.g. an optical disk in RAM for quicker access or some combination of the two. In each case the structure and storage means used to organize the data is not germane to the invention.

Referring now to sample screens and illustrate how the settings described above may be implemented. Screen includes content one or more content items such as Twitter feeds Facebook status updates LinkedIn messages and others. The content may be purely user generated e.g. text provided by a user typing into an application . In some instances the content from one social network platform may be generated by users within other applications operating on the platforms such as Pintrest or Spotify or represent actions taken within applications such as games. As the content is collected it may include user specific information such as their Twitter handle Facebook ID LinkedIn Id email address IM handle phone number email address or other information that can be uniquely associated with the user. For example the Tweet regarding beers being served at a local tavern includes three Twitter handles relating to specific individuals StevenWhite MaryJones and LarrySmith and one related to a place blackdogtavern . Also included is a subject hashtag tenderloin that allows users to search for and identify content by subject.

In contrast screenshot shows how the same content is presented after being scrubbed of the private user data that is once the privacy settings of each user are considered. In this case the message that previously included three user identifiers now only includes one larrysmith as he is the only user that permitted the aggregation site to republish his user information along with the content . As such the other users may see the content and in fact may have even generated the content but can be sure that their name and or ID will not be associated with the content outside of the specific platform in which it was generated.

It is understood that the methods and systems described above may contain software and hardware connected to the Internet via a network. Computing devices are capable of communicating with each other via the Internet and it should be appreciated that the various functionalities of the components may be implemented on any number of devices.

The invention may be practiced using any communications network capable of transmitting Internet protocols. A communications network generally connects a client with a server and in the case of peer to peer communications connects two peers. The communication may take place via any media such as standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless links 802.11 Bluetooth 3G CDMA etc. and so on. The communications network may take any form including but not limited to LAN WAN wireless WiFi WiMAX near field RFID Bluetooth . The communications network may use any underlying protocols that can transmit Internet protocols including but not limited to Ethernet ATM VPNs PPPoE L2TP etc. and encryption SSL IPSec etc. 

The invention may be practiced with any computer system configuration including hand held wireless devices such as mobile phones or personal digital assistants PDAs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers computers running under virtualization etc.

The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The invention s data store may be embodied using any computer data store including but not limited to relational databases non relational databases NoSQL etc. flat files in memory databases and or key value stores. Examples of such data stores include the MySQL Database Server or ORACLE Database Server offered by ORACLE Corp. of Redwood Shores Calif. the PostgreSQL Database Server by the PostgreSQL Global Development Group of Berkeley Calif. or the DB2 Database Server offered by IBM.

The invention may be practiced using any computer system which may include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit.

Computers typically include a variety of computer readable media that can form part of the system memory and be read by the processing unit. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between components such as during start up is typically stored in ROM. RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit. The data or program modules may include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data. The operating system may be or include a variety of operating systems such as Microsoft Windows operating system the Unix operating system the Linux operating system the Mac OS operating system Google Android operating system Apple iOS operating system or another operating system or platform.

At a minimum the memory includes at least one set of instructions that is either permanently or temporarily stored. The processor executes the instructions that are stored in order to process data. The set of instructions may include various instructions that perform a particular task or tasks. Such a set of instructions for performing a particular task may be characterized as a program software program software engine module component mechanism or tool.

The system may include a plurality of software processing modules stored in a memory as described above and executed on a processor in the manner described herein. The program modules may be in the form of any suitable programming language which is converted to machine language or object code to allow the processor or processors to read the instructions. That is written lines of programming code or source code in a particular programming language may be converted to machine language using a compiler assembler or interpreter. The machine language may be binary coded machine instructions specific to a particular computer.

Any suitable programming language may be used in accordance with the various embodiments of the invention. Illustratively the programming language used may include assembly language Basic C C CSS HTML Java SQL Perl Python Ruby and or JavaScript for example. Further it is not necessary that a single type of instruction or programming language be utilized in conjunction with the operation of the system and method of the invention. Rather any number of different programming languages may be utilized as is necessary or desirable.

Also the instructions and or data used in the practice of the invention may utilize any compression or encryption technique or algorithm as may be desired. An encryption module might be used to encrypt data. Further files or other data may be decrypted using a suitable decryption module.

The computing environment may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example a hard disk drive may read or write to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media. A magnetic disk drive may read from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive may read from or write to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM Storage Area Networking devices solid state drives and the like. The storage media are typically connected to the system bus through a removable or non removable memory interface.

The processing unit that executes commands and instructions may be a general purpose computer but may utilize any of a wide variety of other technologies including a special purpose computer a microcomputer mini computer mainframe computer programmed micro processor micro controller peripheral integrated circuit element a CSIC Customer Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit a logic circuit a digital signal processor a programmable logic device such as an FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array PLD Programmable Logic Device PLA Programmable Logic Array RFID integrated circuits smart chip or any other device or arrangement of devices that is capable of implementing the steps of the processes of the invention.

It should be appreciated that the processors and or memories of the computer system need not be physically in the same location. Each of the processors and each of the memories used by the computer system may be in geographically distinct locations and be connected so as to communicate with each other in any suitable manner. Additionally it is appreciated that each of the processor and or memory may be composed of different physical pieces of equipment.

A user may enter commands and information into the systems that embody the invention through a user interface that includes input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner voice recognition device keyboard touch screen toggle switch pushbutton or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

The systems that embody the invention may communicate with the user via notifications sent over any protocol that can be transmitted over a packet switched network or telecommunications network. By way of example and not limitation these may include SMS messages email SMTP messages instant messages GChat AIM Jabber etc. social platform messages Facebook posts and messages Twitter direct messages tweets retweets etc. and mobile push notifications iOS Android .

One or more monitors or display devices may also be connected to the system bus via an interface. In addition to display devices computers may also include other peripheral output devices which may be connected through an output peripheral interface. The computers implementing the invention may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers the remote computers typically including many or all of the elements described above.

Although internal components of the computer are not shown those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that such components and the interconnections are well known. Accordingly additional details concerning the internal construction of the computer need not be disclosed in connection with the present invention.

