---

title: Domain name searching with reputation rating
abstract: A method includes calculating, by at least one server communicatively coupled to a network, a rating for a domain name. The rating is based in part on reputation data for the domain name. The method includes receiving, by the at least one server, a domain name query from a requester, and forming, by the at least one server, a listing of candidate domain names using the domain name query. An inclusion of the domain name into the listing of candidate domain names or an order placement of the domain name within the listing of candidate domain names is a function of the rating for the domain name. The method includes returning, by the at least one server, the listing of candidate domain names to the requester.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015263&OS=09015263&RS=09015263
owner: Go Daddy Operating Company, LLC
number: 09015263
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130919
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 723 397 filed Mar. 12 2010 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 866 970 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Oct. 3 2007 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 977 373 filed Oct. 29 2004. All prior applications are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

This application also relates to copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 976 834 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Oct. 29 2004 Ser. No. 10 976 547 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Oct. 29 2004 Ser. No. 11 306 612 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Jan. 4 2006 Ser. No. 11 746 484 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on May 9 2007 Ser. No. 11 746 505 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on May 9 2007 Ser. No. 11 746 522 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on May 9 2007 Ser. No. 11 866 983 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Oct. 3 2007 Ser. No. 11 866 984 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Oct. 3 2007 Ser. No. 11 866 989 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Oct. 3 2007 Ser. No. 12 409 494 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Mar. 24 2009 Ser. No. 12 409 495 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Mar. 24 2009 Ser. No. 12 409 492 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Mar. 24 2009 Ser. No. 12 482 297 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Jun. 10 2009 Ser. No. 12 482 306 to Warren Adelman et. al. filed on Jun. 10 2009.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for tracking domain name related reputations such as reputations of domain names reputations of domain name registrants and reputations of email addresses.

A network is a collection of links and nodes e.g. multiple computers and or other devices connected together arranged so that information may be passed from one part of the network to another over multiple links and through various nodes. Examples of networks include the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks and wireless networks.

The Internet is a worldwide network of computers and computer networks arranged to allow the easy and robust exchange of information between users of computers. Hundreds of millions of people around the world have access to computers connected to the Internet via Internet Service Providers ISPs . Content providers place multimedia information i.e. text graphics sounds and other forms of data at specific locations on the Internet referred to as websites. The combination of all the websites and their corresponding web pages on the Internet is generally known as the World Wide Web WWW or simply web.

For Internet users and businesses alike the Internet continues to be increasingly valuable. More people use the Web for everyday tasks from social networking shopping banking and paying bills to consuming media and entertainment. E commerce is growing with businesses delivering more services and content across the Internet communicating and collaborating online and inventing new ways to connect with each other.

Websites may consist of a single webpage but typically consist of multiple interconnected and related web pages. Websites unless extremely large and complex or exposed to unusual traffic demands typically reside on a single server and are prepared and maintained by a single individual or entity. Menus and links may be used to move between different web pages within the website or to move to a different website as is known in the art. The interconnectivity of web pages enabled by the Internet can make it difficult for Internet users to tell where one website ends and another begins.

Websites may be created using HyperText Markup Language HTML to generate a standard set of tags that define how the web pages for the website are to be displayed. Users of the Internet may access content providers websites using software known as an Internet browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX. After the browser has located the desired webpage it requests and receives information from the webpage typically in the form of an HTML document and then displays the webpage content for the user. The user may then view other web pages at the same website or move to an entirely different website using the browser.

Websites allow businesses and individuals to share their information with a large number of Internet users. Further many products and services are offered for sale on the Internet thus elevating the Internet to an essential tool of commerce.

Electronic mail or email is another important part of the Internet. Email messages may contain for example text images links and attachments. Email is one of the most widely used methods of communication over the Internet due to the variety of data that may be transmitted large number of available recipients speed low cost and convenience.

Email messages may be sent for example between friends family members or between coworkers thereby substituting for traditional letters and office correspondences in many cases. This is made possible because the Internet has very few restrictions on who may send emails the number of emails that may be transmitted and who may receive the emails. The only real hurdle for sending emails is the requirement that the sender must know the email address also called network mailbox of the intended recipient.

Email messages travel across the Internet typically passing from server to server at amazing speeds achievable only by electronic data. The Internet provides the ability to send an email anywhere in the world often in less than a few seconds. Delivery times are continually being reduced as the Internet s ability to transfer electronic data improves.

Most Internet users find emails to be much more convenient than traditional mail. Traditional mail requires stamps and envelopes to be purchased and a supply maintained while emails do not require the costs and burden of maintaining a supply of associated products. Emails may also be sent with the click of a few buttons while letters typically need to be transported to a physical location such as a mail box before being sent.

Once a computer and an Internet connection have been purchased there are typically few additional costs associated with sending emails. This remains true even if millions or more of emails are sent by the same user. Emails thus have the extraordinary power of allowing a single user to send one or more messages to a very large number of people at an extremely low cost.

The Internet has become a very valuable tool for business and personal communications information sharing commerce etc. However some individuals have abused the Internet. Among such abuses are phishing spam and posting of illegal content on a website e.g. child pornography . Phishing is the luring of sensitive information such as passwords credit card numbers bank accounts and other personal information from an Internet user by masquerading as someone trustworthy with a legitimate need for such information. Spam or unsolicited email is flooding the Internet with many copies of the identical or nearly identical message in an attempt to force the message on people who would not otherwise choose to receive it. Most spam is commercial advertising often for dubious products get rich quick schemes or quasi legal services.

A single spam message received by a user uses only a small amount of the user s email account s allotted disk space requires relatively little time to delete and does little to obscure the messages desired by the user. Even a small number of spam messages while still annoying would nonetheless cause relatively few real problems. However the number of spam transmitted over the Internet is growing at an alarming rate. While a single or small number of spam messages are annoying a large number of spam can fill a user s email account s allotted disk space thereby preventing the receipt of desired emails. Also a large number of spam can take a significant amount of time to delete and can even obscure the presence of desired emails in the user s email account.

Spam currently comprises such a large portion of Internet communications that they actually cause data transmission problems for the Internet as a whole. Spam creates data log jams thereby slowing the delivery of more desired data through the Internet. The larger volume of data created by spam also requires the Internet providers to buy larger and more powerful i.e. more expensive equipment to handle the additional data flow caused by the spam.

Spam has a very poor response rate compared to other forms of advertisement. However since almost all of the costs problems for transmitting and receiving spam are absorbed by the recipient of the spam and the providers of the hardware for the Internet spam is nevertheless commercially viable for a spammer due to the extremely low cost of transmitting the spam.

There are various techniques used for combating Internet abuses. Among them secure certificates spam filtering email challenge response systems etc. To obtain a secure certificate a Certification Authority usually authenticates the owner of the domain name thus allowing the owner of the domain name to employ one of the encryption protocols e.g. SSL Secure Socket Layer for Internet communications. Spam filtering may utilize keywords various probability algorithms or white and or black lists for email addresses domain names and or IP Internet Protocol addresses etc.

The SENDERBASE system keeps track of the amount of email messages originating from various domain names and IP addresses. IRONPORT SYSTEMS INC. a company that maintains SENDERBASE.ORG explains how it works in this example If a sender has high global volumes of mail say 200 Million messages per day from a network of 5 different domains and 1 700 IP addresses that have only been sending mail for 15 days yet have a high end user complaint rate and they don t accept incoming mail they will have a very low reputation score . . . . If a sender is a Fortune 500 company they will likely have much more modest global email volumes say 500 000 messages per day will have a smaller number of IPs and domains with a long sending history they will accept incoming email and have low or zero end user complaint rates. 

The Bonded Sender Program maintains a white list like service. The participants of the service must adhere to the rules and post a bond to be included on the white list.

SPAMCOP maintains a black list of IP addresses and allows users to report spam to a centralized database.

Multiple solutions are created for establishing societies of trusted users. Some solutions keep track of user reputation or trust level.

CLOUDMARK Inc. provides spam filtering and allows users to block or unblock messages manually. The users votes on messages blocking and unblocking are reported to a centralized database allowing for better spam filtering by reducing the number of false positives. Each CLOUDMARK user is assigned with a reputation trust rating . If a malicious user unblocks a spam message while a large number of other users block it the malicious user s reputation will go down. If a user votes along the lines with the rest of the users her his reputation raises.

VERISIGN Inc. maintains the list of domain names that were issued a VERISIGN SSL digital certificate so called Verified Domains List. The company plans to make the list accessible to third parties.

Some systems suggest publishing reputation data in the DNS Domain Name System records e.g. Mailbox Reputation Network.

For the reputation based systems to work properly the sender s email address or at least its domain name part should be correct. Often malicious users forge spoof the sender s email address when they send out spam viruses or phishing email messages. Among the solutions to this problem are MICROSOFT s Sender ID and YAHOO s Domain Keys. The Sender ID proposal envisions publishing the sender s email IP address in the DNS records of the sender s server. This allows the receiver of the email message to compare the originating IP address in the email with the IP address published in the DNS. If they don t match the email address was forged. The Domain Keys proposal utilizes public private key infrastructure. The sender publishes its public key in the DNS records and digitally signs outgoing email messages with its private key. The receiver can validate the sender s signature using the sender s public key published in the DNS records.

A common mechanism for providing increased security includes the use of encrypted transactions using digital certificates also known as secure certificates . One widely used security protocol is the Secure Socket Layer SSL protocol which uses a hybrid public key system in which public key cryptography is used to allow a client and a server to securely agree on a secret session key.

SSL is a networking protocol developed by Netscape Communications Corp. and RSA Data Security Inc. to enable secure network communications in a non secure environment. More particularly SSL is designed to be used in the Internet environment where it operates as a protocol layer above the TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol layers. The application code then resides above SSL in the networking protocol stack. After an application such as an Internet browser creates data to be sent to a peer in the network the data is passed to the SSL layer where various security procedures are performed on it and the SSL layer then passes the transformed data to the TCP layer. On the receiver s side of the connection after the TCP layer receives incoming data it passes that data upward to the SSL layer where procedures are performed to restore the data to its original form. That restored data is then passed to the receiving application. The SSL protocol is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 657 390 entitled Secure Socket Layer Application Program Apparatus and Method. Multiple improvements to the SSL protocol were made in the Transport Layer Security TLS protocol which is intended to gradually replace the SSL.

The protocols underlying the Internet TCP IP for example were not designed to provide secure data transmission. The Internet was originally designed with the academic and scientific communities in mind and it was assumed that users of the network would be working in a non adversarial cooperative manner. As the Internet began to expand into a public network usage outside these communities was relatively limited with most of the new users located in large corporations. These corporations had the computing facilities to protect their users data with various security procedures such as firewalls that did not require security to be built into the Internet itself. In the past several years however Internet usage has skyrocketed. Millions of people now use the Internet and the Web on a regular basis. These users perform a wide variety of tasks from exchanging electronic mail messages to searching for information to performing business transactions. These users may access the Internet from home from their cellular phone or from a number of other environments where security procedures are not commonly available. To support the growth of the Internet as a viable place of doing business often referred to as electronic commerce or simply e commerce easily accessible and inexpensive security procedures had to be developed. SSL is one popular solution and is commonly used with applications that send and receive data using the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP . HTTP is the protocol most commonly used for accessing that portion of the Internet referred to as the Web. When HTTP is used with SSL to provide secure communications the combination is referred to as HTTPS. Non commercial Internet traffic can also benefit from the security SSL provides. SSL has been proposed for use with data transfer protocols other than HTTP such as Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP and Network News Transfer Protocol NNTP .

SSL is designed to provide several different but complementary types of security. First is message privacy. Privacy refers to protecting message content from being readable by persons other than the sender and the intended receiver s . Privacy is provided by using cryptography to encrypt and decrypt messages. SSL uses asymmetric cryptography also known as public key cryptography at least for establishing the connection or the so called handshake . A message receiver can only decrypt an encrypted message if the message creator used the message receiver s public key to encrypt the message and the message receiver uses his private key to decrypt the message.

Second SSL provides data integrity for messages being transmitted. Data integrity refers to the ability for a message recipient to detect whether the message content was altered after its creation thus rendering the message untrustworthy . A message creator passes the message through an algorithm which creates what is called a message digest or a message authentication code . The message digest is a large number produced by applying hash functions to the message. A digitally signed digest is sent along with the message. When the message is received the receiver also processes the message through the same algorithm creating another digest. If the digest computed by the receiver does not match the digest sent with the message then it can be assumed that the message contents were altered in some way after the message was created.

The third security feature SSL provided is known as authentication. Communications over the Internet take place as a sequence of electronic signals without the communicating parties being able to see each other and visually determine with whom they are communicating. Authentication is a technique that helps to ensure that the parties are who they represent themselves to be whether the party is a human user or an application program. For example if a human user is buying goods over the Internet using a credit card it is important for the human user to know that the application waiting on the other end of the connection for his credit card information is really the vendor he believes he is doing business with and not an impostor waiting to steal his credit card information.

One advantage of SSL is that it is application protocol independent. A higher level protocol can layer on top of the SSL Protocol transparently. Thus the SSL protocol provides connection security where encryption is used after an initial handshake to define a secret key for use during a session and where the communication partner s identity can be authenticated using for example a well known public certificate issuing authority. Examples of such well known Certification Authorities CA include Starfield Technologies Inc. a subsidiary of The Go Daddy Group Inc. RSA Data Security Inc. VERISIGN and EQUIFAX.

Authentication is important in establishing the secure connection as it provides a basis for the client to trust that the server typically identified by its Universal Resource Locator URL is the entity associated with the server public key provided to the client and used to establish the secret session key. As noted above this authentication may be provided through the use of certificates obtained by the server from one of the well known Certification Authorities. The certificate such as a X.509 certificate typically includes an identification of the server such as its hostname the server s public key and a digital signature which is provided by the well known Certification Authority. The digital signature is used by a client receiving the certificate from a server to authenticate the identity of the server before initiating a secured session. In particular the application on the client initiating the secured communication session such as an Internet browser is typically installed with a public key ring including public keys for various well known Certification Authorities that allow the client to verify server certificates issued by these Certification Authorities.

Typically a Certification Authority verifies a subscriber also known as a requester before a secure certificate is issued. The verification may include checking the person s identity address telephone number email address ownership of a domain name etc. Companies and organizations may be verified by checking if they are properly registered with the appropriate governmental agencies. A Certification Authority may access various databases to verify a person or organization make phone calls to verify telephone numbers send email messages to verify email addresses request copies of person s ID or registration documents for companies and organizations etc.

A Certification Authority may issue various levels types of secure certificates. The secure certificate level typically indicates the rigorousness with which the subscriber was verified.

These techniques for determining the trustworthiness of certain Internet traffic tend to operate at the domain name level. Accordingly in the case of spam certain domain names may become associated with spam type communications and may therefore become blacklisted domain names. That black listing can then be used by other entities to determine whether in bound communications from that domain name are likely to be spam. Unfortunately even after the sale and transfer of ownership of a domain name those reputations tend to stay intact and remain associated with the domain name. As such if a potential purchaser is unaware of the reputation of a particular domain name there is some risk that the purchaser may purchase the domain name for example for use by their business only to discover that emails sent from the domain name will not be accepted by any other service provider rendering the domain name essentially worthless.

The present invention will now be discussed in detail with regard to the attached drawing figures which were briefly described above. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth illustrating the Applicant s best mode for practicing the invention and enabling one of ordinary skill in the art of making and using the invention. It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without many of these specific details. In other instances well known machines and method steps have not been described in particular detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Unless otherwise indicated like parts and method steps are referred to with like reference numerals.

For the purposes of this application Registering Entity may include one or more domain name Registries and or one or more domain name Registrars and or one or more domain name Resellers.

Some embodiments of the present invention utilize the unique position of a Registering Entity on the Internet. For example the Registrar has access to the domain name billing information and can determine who the purchaser of the domain is. The contact information in the domain name WHOIS records is provided by the registrant and is not always reliable. In this case the Registrar may rely on the billing information. Further the registrant may choose private registration and the registrant s WHOIS records will be hidden to the public. Nevertheless the Registrar still has access to the registrant s private registration records. Typically the Registering Entity has access to forwarding masking and DNS records of the domain name thus if reputation values are determined for one of the domain names those reputation values may be associated with all the domain names connected through forwarding masking or DNS records. Further the Registering Entity may change WHOIS records this allows the Registering Entity to save domain name related reputation information into the WHOIS records. If the Registering Entity is a hosting provider for the domain name the Registering Entity may save domain name related reputation information into the DNS records.

The WHOIS data may be maintained by a Registry a Registrar and or another party. Thin Registries store limited amount of information about a domain name typically it includes Domain Name Registrar Whois Server Referral URL Name Server Status Updated Date Creation Date Expiration Date etc. Thick Registries in addition store Registrant Administrative Technical and Billing contact information. Registrars usually store detailed information about the domain names registered through them. Even though the WHOIS is public records many Registries and Registrars limit access to the WHOIS data by automated solutions e.g. computer programs scripts crawlers etc. . This prevents copying substantial parts of the WHOIS database and potential use of this data for unsolicited email campaigns. Typically the Registering Entity may avoid such limitations. Additionally for the domain names registered through the Registrar the Registrar has access to the domain name registrations renewals transfers expirations etc. in real time.

For the purposes of this application domain name related reputation data may include one or more values ratings or scores per a domain name. The data may further include links or references to the locations typically on the network where such values ratings or scores may be found.

Referring to an embodiment of a system of the present invention includes a Registering Entity a Domain Names Database a Reputation Database a Presentation Means a Subject and a Requester . The Registering Entity may be a domain name Registry a Registrar of domain names or a Reseller of a Registrar. The Registering Entity may be an accredited ICANN Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers Registry or Registrar. Examples of ICANN accredited Registrars include GoDaddy.com Wild West Domains etc. The Registering Entity maintains the Domain Names Database . The Domain Names Database contains one or more domain names registered through or with the Registering Entity or registered through or with another party. The Subject is a person or an entity associated with one or more domain names registered through the Registering Entity link .

The Subject may be a client of the Registering Entity a purchaser of products or services provided by the Registering Entity a user of the products or services provided by the Registering Entity e.g. email account users a registrant of one or more domain names registered through the Registering Entity a person or entity on record with the Registering Entity e.g. billing records private registration records etc. a person or entity appearing in the WHOIS records for one or more domain names registered through the Registering Entity or any combination thereof. The system may include one or more Subjects. The system may also include one or more Registering Entities for simplification purposes the system of is described as having one Registering Entity.

The products or services provided by the Registering Entity may include registering a domain name providing an email service account hosting service issuing a digital certificate computer software website designing tools and or services reputation tracking service or any combination thereof.

The Reputation Database stores domain name related reputation data. There may be multiple records in the Reputation Database for a single domain name from the Domain Names Database link . The Reputation Database preferably would be maintained by the Registering Entity but could be maintained by a third party or a combination of entities each storing portions of the Reputation Database . The Reputation Database may store reputation records for various categories associated with a domain name. Such categories may include email practices website content privacy policies and practices fraudulent activities complaints digital certificates associated with the domain name an overall reputation or any combination thereof. The overall reputation may be calculated from other reputation records using the sum average median minimum maximum or any other formula. The reputation data may be tracked on a person or an entity a domain name a URL associated with the domain name an email address or any combination thereof.

The Reputation Database may hold data on the amount of spam that originated from a domain name email accounts per week per month per year total etc. number of complaints about spam about phishing about other fraudulent activities or website content illegal drugs alcohol tobacco sex pornography nudity or any other form of adult content profanity violence intolerance hate racism militant groups extremists Satanism witchcraft gambling casino spam MLM pyramid schemes fraud or any other illegal or questionable activity etc. . The values in the reputation data may be numeric ratings or values out of a predetermined set of discrete values. Examples of sets of discrete values include Yes No Bad Fair Good Excellent etc.

The Reputation Database may hold the dates when the domain name was first or last registered or another value indicating the length of time the domain name has been registered. The longer domain name has been registered the higher the reputation of the domain name may be.

The reputation values associated with a domain name itself a domain name registrant as appearing in WHOIS records and a domain name purchaser a person or entity billed may differ. For example the domain name purchaser may purchase domain names A B and C. The domain name registrant may be the same for domain names A and B and different for C. Domain name A may have an Under Construction page domain B may be used for an adult content website and domain C may be used for sending out spam. Even though the reputation ratings for domain name A itself would not indicate adult content or spam the ratings for the purchaser of the domain name A may so indicate. Similarly the reputation ratings of the registrant of the domain name A may indicate adult content because domain name A has the same registrant as domain name B.

The domain name registrant reputation values may be calculated as minimum maximum average median sum or any other formula from some or all domain names with the same registrant. Similarly the domain name purchaser reputation values may be calculated as minimum maximum average median sum or any other formula from some or all domain names purchased by the purchaser. In effect the reputation associated with the Subjects registrants owners clients etc. may cross multiple domain names.

The Reputation Database may obtain various reputation data from other reputation services such as SENDERBASE.ORG Bonded Sender Program SPAMCOP societies of trusted users black and white domain IP email lists CLOUDMARK VERISIGN Verified Domains List TRUSTe etc. The variety of reputation data may aid in making better decisions by the Requester .

Besides providing raw data in the Reputation Database for the Requester to make decisions the Registering Entity may provide suggestions or recommendations if a particular domain name URL email address etc. should be trusted i.e. whitelisting and or blacklisting domain name URL email address etc.

The domain name related reputation data the Reputation Database may be digitally signed for authenticity. The data may be signed with a digital certificate by the Registering Entity or by another trusted party. For the purposes of this disclosure terms digital certificate and secure certificate are equivalents and used interchangeably.

The Registering Entity may start tracking domain name related reputation voluntarily or after a request from the Subject . The Registering Entity may offer the reputation tracking as an additional service to the Registering Entity s clients.

The Requester may be a person an entity or a technological means such as a computer software a website a web service etc. The system may include one or more Requesters. The data from the Reputation Database may be provided to the Requester via the Presentation Means links and .

The Presentation Means are means for presenting the data and may be maintained by the Registering Entity and may include DNS records WHOIS records a website a web service a whitelist a blacklist a computer software an API based solution or protocol or any combination thereof. For example the Registering Entity may post some reputation values in the domain name DNS or WHOIS records or post into DNS or WHOIS a URL link to the location on the network e.g. Internet website where the reputation data may be found.

The domain name related reputation data obtainable through the Presentation Means may be digitally signed for authenticity. The data may be signed with a digital certificate or secure certificate by the Registering Entity the Presentation Means or by another trusted party. For example the reputation data in WHOIS records may be digitally signed by the Registering Entity .

A digital secure certificate may serve as the Presentation Means . The certificate may contain reputation values ratings scores or one or more URL links where the reputation values can be found. The reputation values or links may be updated every time the certificate is renewed. The certificate may be created or signed by the Registering Entity or created or signed by a certification authority. A digital secure certificate may be an SSL certificate.

In another embodiment of the invention the partners of the Registering Entity may have access to the Reputation Database . The Presentation Means in this embodiment may include a system that periodically feeds reputation data to the partners. The reputation data may be in XML eXtensible Markup Language character delimited e.g. CSV Comma Separated Values or TSV Tab Separated Values fixed length or other formats.

The system of the present invention provides a framework centralized around a Registering Entity for accessing the reputation data. Any Internet or email user or automated solution may find domain name related reputation data through a Registering Entity where the domain name was registered or in domain name WHOIS records as opposed to a variety of disconnected solutions that may exist presently. If a domain name is transferred from one Registering Entity to another the reputation data may be transferred from one Registering Entity to another as well.

Alternatively as shown in the Domain Names Database may be maintained by an entity other than the Registering Entity e.g. by a third party registering entity a First Registering Entity . The Domain Names Database contains one or more domain names registered through or with the Registering Entity or registered through or with another party.

The initial values may be set to null zero or any other value. The values may be on various scales for example from 0 to 100 from 0 to infinity or from 100 to 100 where 0 may represent a domain name with no reputation etc. The Registering Entity may develop a schedule of points to be awarded for various events associated with the domain name.

For example if the Registering Entity receives a legitimate complaint about a spam email message originating from a domain name the email practices reputation rating score value of the domain name and the email address reputation rating may be reduced by one. If the domain name exists for a year with no complaints the domain name s overall reputation rating may be raised by 10 points. If the Registering Entity validates the domain name registrant contact information the overall reputation rating may be raised by 20 points etc. Additional points may be awarded if the domain name is assigned an SSL certificate issued by a Certification Authority. The rating may be reduced if illegal content is present on the domain name website.

If the domain name is transferred from one Registering Entity to another if the registrant was changed if ownership of the domain name was changed or if the domain name expires the ratings may be changed e.g. reset to their initial values . Changes in the domain name registration information contact or DNS may trigger a change of the reputation ratings as well. Optionally the Registering Entity may provide historical values of the reputation ratings.

In another embodiment referring to domain name related reputation may be tracked from the point when the domain name is getting registered or renewed point of sale . A registrant who intends to register a domain name may visit a Registering Entity s website Step . The registrant is a person or entity who registers the domain name it may not be necessarily a person or entity which appears in the WHOIS records. A Registering Entity may offer the registrant a reputation tracking service Step . The reputation tracking service may be free of charge for the registrant or may be a paid service. If the registrant does not want the reputation tracking service the Registering Entity will register the domain name Step . If the registrant opts for the reputation tracking service the Registering Entity will register the domain name Step may verify the registrant Step and then set initial reputation values in reputation data Step .

In yet another embodiment referring to domain name related reputation data may be utilized at the time a domain name is searched for as part of a domain name acquisition process. The domain name may be newly registered renewed point of sale or purchased in an aftermarket sale. In the present disclosure purchasing a domain name may refer to entering into a registration or lease for a domain name in exchange for payment. The payment may consist of a monetary amount or any other exchange of value such as the provision of services or exchange of domain name leases.

A requester such as a registrant who intends to register a domain name may visit a Registering Entity s website. The registrant is a person or entity who wishes to search for and register a domain name with the Registering Entity. The registrant may be any individual or entity having access to the network that may wish to research potential domain names for registration. The registrant may issue a request including a domain name query Step to the Registering Entity s website in order to search for candidate domain names. The request may comprise any electronic request transmitted to the Registering Entity s website including but not limited to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request email message and or Short Message Service SMS message i.e. text message . The request may comprise any combination of data containing information relating to a domain name such as the name of a domain name or keywords or other data e.g. images audio video other multimedia and the like that may relate to a potential domain name or that can be analyzed or otherwise used to identify one or more domain names relevant to the query. As non limiting examples the request may comprise an HTTP request transmitted to the Registering Entity s website.

To illustrate is a screenshot showing an example user interface by which the registrant can initiate a search for a domain name in accordance with step of . Referring to the registrant can enter the name of the desired domain e.g. MikesBikes.com or other search terms or keywords that may be related to a desired domain name into search box . Then after the query has been entered into search box the registrant can activate button to perform the query.

Returning to once the request is received Step the query is analyzed and a number of candidate domain names are generated in a result listing using the query Step . If the query included a specific domain name the result listing may include that specific domain name and optionally a number of alternative domain names. If however the query included a number of search terms or other data rather than a specific domain name the result listing may contain a number of candidate domain names that are relevant to the query. In some implementations the result listing may include only a single candidate domain name.

Having generated a result listing of candidate domain names domain name reputation values e.g. ratings scores can be calculated Step for each domain name in the result list.

To calculate the reputation ratings reputation data associated with each domain name in the result list can be retrieved from one or more systems or data sources e.g. systems and of .

For example reputation data for each domain name may be retrieved from Reputation Database see . Reputation data may also be retrieved from a number of third party systems such as those that monitor domain names for inappropriate activities such as the sending of spam or hosting of viruses. In addition to reputation data other information relating to each domain name may be collected for a number of sources as described below. All of this information can then be combined to determine a reputation rating for each candidate domain name in the result listing.

In some cases the reputation data may lower the domain name reputation value of a particular domain name and thereby reduce the value of the domain name.

For example if a particular domain name is associated with the sending of spam hosting of viruses or other inappropriate activities that cause a particular domain name to be untrustworthy the domain name may receive a relatively poor reputation rating. Example systems that may be used to determine whether a reputation rating for a particular domain name should be lowered or reduced include but are not limited to whether the domain name is found in known spam lists e.g. Spamhaus.com domain names blacklisted or sandboxed by known search engines e.g. Google.com and the Registering Entity s own web pages customer records email records and other systems.

If for example the domain name or keywords e.g. MikesBikes.com received by the query Step is found on a known spam list the domain name reputation value may be lowered because this may severely limit if not entirely block the registrant s ability to use the domain name to send email for example.

If for example the domain name e.g. MikesBikes.com is determined to be blacklisted or sandboxed by a known search engine as a result of the actions of the previous domain name owner for example the domain name reputation value may be lowered since this may limit or block the registrant s ability to get ranked favorably in the search engine. In addition if the domain name is found on the Registering Entity s system as exhibiting abusive behavior e.g. counterfeit sales and or being blocked by the Registering Entity s system the domain name reputation value may be lowered.

Additionally each domain name in the result list may be compared against several systems that may for example increase the domain name reputation value in order to generate the domain name reputation value Step . The systems that each domain name is compared against can include but are not limited to internal data of the Registering Entity external data e.g. Verisign data and valuation appraisal algorithms of the Registering Entity.

For example if the domain name or keywords e.g. MikesBikes.com received by the query Step is found in the Registering Entity s internal data for example previous traffic data previous hosting data and DNS data can be obtained to determine if the searched domain name or keywords will perform well if the registrant decides to purchase the domain name thereby increasing the domain name reputation value. Additionally if the domain name or keywords e.g. MikesBikes.com received by the query Step is found in external data e.g. Verisign data information such as the number of DNS requests for the domain name previous length of registration for dropped domain names alternative TLDs that are already registered with the same domain name and the quantity of TLDs that are already registered with the same domain name may be obtained and increase the domain name reputation value. Lastly if valuation appraisal algorithms of the Registering Entity are used on the domain name or keywords e.g. MikesBikes.com received by the query Step information regarding which domain names that are already registered with the Registering Entity and are included in the result listing would have a higher domain name reputation value for use by a registrant who is a small medium business customer for example.

After identifying relevant reputation data that may be collected from a number of external sources for the candidate domain names of the result listing the reputation data can be combined into a single reputation rating for each candidate domain name.

When the reputation data collected from each external source includes only numeric ratings that information can be normalized to reduce each datum in the reputation data to a canonical form. Once normalized the reputation data can then be averaged to determine an overall numeric reputation rating for each of the candidate domain names. This may include the additional step of providing different weightings for the reputation data depending for example upon the source of the reputation data the age of the reputation data or any other attribute of the reputation data.

For example a domain name that has been previously registered for a long time e.g. greater than 10 years and has no history of sending spam or unsolicited emails or other abuse may receive a relatively high reputation rating. In contrast a domain name that has been previously registered for a short period of time and has a history of abuse will be given a low reputation rating. The length of the prior registration of a particular domain name may be determined by analyzing the registration records for the domain name if available. If not archive services e.g. archive.org and the like may be used to determine the prior registration history of a particular domain name.

In some cases the TLD of a particular domain name may influence its reputation rating. For example the TLD .info may in some cases be associated with the sending of unsolicited emails. In that case domain names having a TLD of .info may receive a lower reputation rating. Similar rules may apply to other TLDs to either raise or lower the reputation rating of a particular domain name.

In other cases the reputation data may be combined according to an algorithm that includes a number of logic statements. For example if it is determined that a particular domain name is listed in a spam blacklist that domain name may always be allocated the lowest reputation rating possible. Alternatively if the domain name has been issue a certified security certificate the domain name may always be given a maximum reputation rating for example even if it has been previously registered for only a short period of time. Similarly domain names that were previously registered to companies rather than individuals may receive higher reputation ratings than domain names that were previously registered to individuals.

Because there may be other unforeseen factors that can influence the reputation rating of a particular domain name the present system although contemplating the automatic calculation of a reputation rating may also allow a system administrator to modify or otherwise adjust a reputation rating for a particular domain name.

In some implementations if the reputation rating of a particular domain name is determined to be lower than a particular threshold the domain name may be excluded from the listing of candidate domain names entirely.

Referring now to once calculated the Registering Entity s website may utilize the reputation ratings of each of the candidate domain names when displaying the result list to the user Step . For example the result list displayed to the user Step may display domain names having high domain name reputation values at the top of the result list and domain names having low domain name reputation values near the bottom of the result list . In general domain names having higher reputation values will have preferred placement in the result list over domain names with lower reputation values. The preferred placement may comprise any location on the website that may be more likely to attract the attention of a user than another location. The preferred placement location as non limiting examples may be determined by human factors usability or similar studies or may be a simple arbitrary or intuitive choice. The preferred placement may comprise a preferred placement within a vertical arrangement of a plurality of domain names perhaps at the top of a list of a plurality of domains or simply a higher placement within such a list than the placement of other domain names. The preferred placement may therefore as non limiting examples comprise a top most bottom most or more centered position in any such vertical list. This concept may also apply to a horizontal arrangement of domain names wherein perhaps the preferred placement comprises a left most right most or more centered position. Alternatively or in addition different font sizes or colors may be utilized to indicate the reputation values for different domain names in the result list .

In other implementations the normal result list may be displayed but icons indicating the reputation rating of each domain name may be displayed in proximity to each of the candidate domain names. For example the icons may indicate a numerical score as shown in or the icons may indicate a percentage representing the reputation rating of each domain name. The numerical score may be from one to ten for example where the numerical score of ten indicates a high reputation rating and a score of one indicates a low reputation rating. Alternatively the icons may merely indicate whether the domain name has a positive or a negative reputation rating e.g. a plus or minus sign or the icons may be color coded e.g. green or red to indicate a positive or negative reputation rating.

Alternatively the icons may indicate specific attributes of the domain names. For example domain names that have a reputation for sending spam email may be depicted next to an email icon domain names that have a reputation for hosting viruses may be depicted next to a virus icon and the like. Similarly domain names that have a reputation for driving lots of traffic may be depicted next to an icon showing a currency symbol e.g. a dollar sign . For example the amount of traffic for the domain name may be determined to exceed a particular threshold indicating that the domain name experiences a relatively high amount of traffic. The threshold may be a fixed traffic amount or may be calculated for each candidate domain name for example by analyzing parked page data for other similar domain names to determine an average traffic amounts over a number of similar domain names. The traffic volume for a particular domain name can be determined by analyzing DNS and or WHOIS requests for the domain name. When analyzing WHOIS data one metric for scoring the domain name may be thirty or more WHOIS lookups per month high rating for the domain name between 15 and 30 WHOIS lookups per month good rating between 5 and 15 WHOIS lookups per month good rating and less than 5 WHOIS lookups per month poor rating. When analyzing web traffic to the domain name one metric for scoring the domain may be 300 or more requests per month e.g. DNS requests for the domain name high rating for the domain name between 30 and 300 requests per month e.g. DNS requests for the domain name good rating between 10 and 30 requests per month e.g. DNS requests for the domain name average rating and less than 10 requests per month e.g. DNS requests for the domain name poor rating. The result list may be displayed with none of the icons or all of the icons i.e. icons with numerical score email icon virus icon and current icon one of the icons or a combination of one or more of the icons previously described.

With the result list being displayed from high domain name reputation values to low domain name reputation values the registrant is presented with a better quality result list of domain names that have the best chance based on the systems Steps and of being successful.

In some implementations additional factors that are somewhat unrelated to the reputation of a domain name can be combined with the reputation rating and utilized in the manner described above to display the result listing of candidate domain names. For example the cost of the candidate domain names can be used in conjunction with the reputation rating to determine how the candidate domain names should be displayed on the result listing. For example given the same reputation rating cheaper domain names may be listed before more expensive domain names. In some cases the domain name is compared to a registry of registered trademarks such as the registry or databases provided by the United States Patent and Trademark Office databases e.g. Trademark Electronic Search System TESS Trademark Status and Document Retrieval System TSDR or Trademark Application and Registration Retrieval TARR System . If the domain name is determined to be similar to a previously registered trademark the user may be notified that if they were to purchase the domain name there may be trademark concerns. In an alternative embodiment a determined similarity between the domain name and previously registered trademarks may reduce the domain name s rating or reputation value.

The registrant may then add one or more of the domain names from the result list to their shopping cart Step by pressing a button as shown in FIG. . This step may be accomplished by any method of informing a potential registrant that a domain name may be available for registration. As a non limiting example where a request for a domain name is received Step via an electronic request e.g. HTTP request email message SMS message text message the domain name may be provided for registration via similar electronic communication means perhaps via a domain name registration web site hosted by a suitably configured computer server. Thus an HTTP domain name request may be responded to with an HTTP response that provides a webpage listing the domain name for registration perhaps as a hyperlink.

Once the registrant has added the desired domain name to their shopping cart Step the Registering Entity may in some cases offer the registrant a reputation tracking service Step . The reputation tracking service may be free of charge for the registrant or may be a paid service. If the registrant does not want the reputation tracking service the Registering Entity will register the domain name Step . If the registrant opts for the reputation tracking service the Registering Entity will register the domain name Step may verify the registrant Step and then set initial reputation values in reputation data Step . Once the registrant has decided to track the reputation Step of the domain name the registrant may click on the domain name and be taken to a domain name registration website to check out Step as shown in .

Domain name registration may be accomplished by any domain name registration method known in the art or developed in the future perhaps via a website enabled domain name purchase and registration system such as that described in detail above and or may be available on GODADDY.COM s website. Alternatively domain name registration may be accomplished via human to human communication perhaps via a telephone call or in person meeting. Domain names may be registered by as non limiting examples any individual or entity including but not limited to a domain name registry domain name registrar hosting provider and or software application developer or distributor.

In yet another embodiment referring to a method may be used to determine a rating or value for a queried domain name where the rating or value is at least partially determined by the reputation rating of the domain name. The method illustrated in may be used for example to determine ratings that can be used in controlling how a result listing is displayed in response to a requester s query for a listing of candidate domain names. The method may be performed for example by a computer server providing a user interface through which a user can supply a domain name. The computer server can then determine a rating for the domain name that is at least partially determined by a reputation rating of the domain name. The user interface may then be used once the rating is determined to display the rating for the user s review. Alternatively the method may be implemented by a computer server without a user interface. In that case the computer server may provide an application programming interface API that may be accessed by other computers to cause the execution of the method. For example a requesting computer system may execute a suitable API function call to supply the computer server with a domain name and initiate the determination of a rating for the domain name. The computer server can then determine the rating of the domain name and return the rating as an output of the API function call.

In some cases the method may be utilized in a service to rate a particular domain name that a user may be interested in purchasing. The user may wish to know for example whether the domain name has a good or a poor rating before paying money for the domain name. In some cases the rating may be translated into a monetary value for the domain name. The method may utilize any of the mechanisms or techniques discussed above with respect to or discussed elsewhere in this disclosure for determining a reputation rating or an overall rating or value for a particular domain name.

In step a request is issued for a particular domain name. The request may comprise any electronic request transmitted to the Registering Entity s website including but not limited to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request email message and or Short Message Service SMS message i.e. text message . The request may comprise any combination of data containing information relating to a domain name such as the name of a domain name or keywords or other data e.g. images audio video other multimedia and the like that may relate to a potential domain name or that can be analyzed or otherwise used to identify one or more domain names relevant to the query. As non limiting examples the request may comprise an HTTP request transmitted to the Registering Entity s website. To illustrate is a screenshot showing an example user interface by which the registrant can initiate a search for a domain name in accordance with step of .

Returning to once the request is received Step the request is analyzed to identify a domain name and a rating of the domain name is determined. The rating is at least partially determined by a reputation of the domain name.

Accordingly once the domain name is identified data is collected from a variety of systems or data sources in step where the data will ultimately be used to determine a rating of the domain name. For example the valuation data may include reputation data for the queried domain name. The reputation data may be retrieved from Reputation Database see . Reputation data may also be retrieved from a number of third party systems such as those that monitor domain names for inappropriate activities such as the sending of spam or hosting of viruses. Additional valuation data may include the length of time that the domain name has been previously registered whether the domain name was previously registered by an individual or a company how much traffic the domain name sees e.g. derived from DNS and or WHOIS records the number of other registered domain names with the same second level domain but different TLD whether the domain name is known for the sending of unsolicited message hosting viruses or fraudulent behavior such as the selling of counterfeit goods whether the domain name is on a watch list for bad behavior the cost or price of the domain name the similarity between domain and registered trademarks and the like.

All of this information can then be combined to determine a rating or value for the queried domain name using the techniques described herein such as those described in conjunction with the method illustrated in .

For example if a particular domain name is associated with the sending of spam hosting of viruses or other inappropriate activities that cause a particular domain name to be untrustworthy the domain name may receive a relatively poor reputation rating. This poor reputation rating will then affect the overall rating of the domain name. Example systems that may be used to determine whether a reputation rating for a particular domain name should be lowered or reduced include but are not limited to whether the domain name is found in known spam lists e.g. Spamhaus.com domain names blacklisted or sandboxed by known search engines e.g. Google.com and the Registering Entity s web pages and system.

If for example the domain name or keywords e.g. MikesBikes.com received by the query Step is found on a known spam list the domain name reputation value may be lowered because this may severely limit if not entirely block the registrant s ability to use the domain name to send email for example.

If for example the domain name e.g. MikesBikes.com is determined to be blacklisted or sandboxed by a known search engine as a result of the actions of the previous domain name owner for example the domain name reputation value may be lowered since this may limit or block the registrant s ability to get ranked favorably in the search engine. In addition if the domain name is found on the Registering Entity s system as exhibiting abusive behavior e.g. counterfeit sales and or being blocked by the Registering Entity s system the value or quality of the domain name reputation may be lowered.

Additionally the queried domain name in the result list may be compared against several systems that may for example increase the domain name s reputation rating which may in turn increase the rating of the domain name Step . The systems that the domain name is compared against can include but are not limited to internal data of the Registering Entity or any third party domain name valuation services external data e.g. Verisign data and valuation appraisal algorithms of the Registering Entity as will be discussed in further detail below.

After identifying relevant valuation data which as described above can include reputational data the valuation data can be combined into a single rating or value for the domain name. The rating for the domain name may be calculated as a minimum maximum average median sum or any other formula from some or all of the valuation data collected for the domain name. A representation of the rating of the domain name may then be displayed to the user e.g. in a similar fashion to that shown in . For example the rating may be displayed in the form of a score e.g. from 1 to 100 indicating a quality of the searched for domain name. Alternatively icons may be used to indicate with the domain name has a bad good or excellent quality rating where different ranges of numerical rating values are defined as being bad good or excellent quality ratings. Additionally if the domain name was determined to have a reputation for example for the sending of spam emails an icon may be displayed e.g. an envelope icon to indicate to the viewer that the domain name has such a reputation. Other icons may include those indicating that the domain is associated with hosting virus sees a large amount of traffic and the like.

With the queried domain name displayed in the result list the registrant is presented with a single domain name rating for the queried domain name.

Verification may include validating information appearing in the WHOIS records or in the private registration records as well as validating registrant s business records driver s licenses or other documents. There may be multiple levels of verification performed. Basic levels may include validating some of the contact information appearing in the WHOIS record or in the private registration records. Advanced levels may include verification of a variety of registrant s documents. More extensive and comprehensive verification levels may result in higher reputation values assuming the verification was successful .

In yet another embodiment if the registrant does not opt for the reputation tracking service the Registering Entity may still create reputation data for the domain name and populate it with some default values.

Alternatively as shown in a domain name may be registered Step through a First Registering Entity and reputation may be tracked Steps and by a Second Registering Entity a Trusted Registering Entity .

Preferably the Requester is computer software running in conjunction with an email server or a client email program. In Step the Requester may identify a domain name from an email address of a sender. Additional steps may be taken to ensure that the email address of the sender was not forged spoofed . If the Registering Entity in Step is a Registrar then the Registrar may be determined from the Registry s WHOIS records. Referring to Step the location of the domain name related reputation data may be inter alia a database a website a web service WHOIS records DNS records a digital secure certificate etc. The location of the domain name related reputation data may be a predetermined location e.g. http reputation.godaddy.com or may be provided by a link or reference. The link or reference to the location may be inter alia a URL link a DNS address an IP address a computer port or any combination thereof. For example a URL link to the website where the reputation data is located may be specified in the WHOIS records. If the location of the domain name related reputation data is specified in the Registry s WHOIS records then Step determining the Registering Entity may be omitted. Step determining the location of reputation data may include the following sub steps determine a location of the Registrar s WHOIS data from the Registry s WHOIS e.g. whois.godaddy.com and then obtain a URL to the domain name related reputation data from the Registrar s WHOIS.

The Requester decides determines whether the values in the domain name related reputation data are appropriate to allow the email message. The domain name related reputation data may have multiple values ratings it is likely that the rating s for email practices will be considered by the Requester. If the Requester decides to allow the email message it may be placed into the user s Inbox. If the email message is not allowed it may be deleted or placed in a special quarantine mailbox e.g. Spam Junk mail Bulk mail etc. . Additionally links to the web pages in the email message may be checked for their domain name related reputation and this information may be used in the decision of whether to allow the email message.

Alternatively as shown in the Requester may determine a Trusted Registering Entity for the domain name Step . The Trusted Registering Entity may be different from the Registering Entity with which the domain name is registered. The Trusted Registering Entity may be specified in DNS records WHOIS records or in the digital certificate associated with the domain name. Also the Requester may query a commonly known Trusted Registering Entities to determine if they have reputation information for the domain name.

Similarly to the Requester may use domain name related reputation to determine if the Requester should visit a URL link. Referring to a Requester intends to visit a URL Step . The Requester identifies a domain name from the URL Step . The Requester determines a Registering Entity of the domain name Step . The Requester determines the location of domain name related reputation data Step . The Requester accesses the domain name related reputation data Step . Based on the domain name related reputation data the Requester decides determines whether the Requester should visit the URL Step . If the Requester decides to visit the URL it may do so Step .

In this method the Requester may be computer software working in conjunction with an Internet browser. If the domain name and or the URL have a low reputation the webpage located at the URL may be blocked. Alternatively the computer software may give the user a warning that the domain name and or the URL have a low reputation. The user may then decide whether to visit the URL.

Alternatively as shown in the Requester may determine a Trusted Registering Entity for the domain name Step . The Trusted Registering Entity may be different from the Registering Entity with which the domain name is registered.

Each URL may have its own reputation rating. This is especially advantageous when multiple parties are responsible for the content of a website associated with the domain name.

The Registering Entity or another party may publish domain name related reputation data in the DNS or WHOIS records. The reputation values ratings scores or one or more URL links where the reputation values can be found may be published in the DNS or WHOIS records. The party that tries to access domain name related reputation data may obtain it inter alia from a predetermined URL on the Internet or from the DNS or WHOIS records. One embodiment of the method for publishing the domain name related reputation in the WHOIS records includes the following steps. The Registering Entity collects domain name related information and forms domain name related reputation data. Then the Registering Entity stores the domain name related reputation data in the WHOIS records.

The domain name related reputation may also be used for presenting search engines results. Typically the search engines results presented to the network users or automated solutions are based on their relevance e.g. how often search terms are found on a webpage date last updated number of links to that webpage etc. In the method of the present invention the network search engines may use reputation ratings as one of the parameters to be considered for sorting or ordering search results. Alternatively links to the domain names with a low reputation may be excluded from the search results. An embodiment of the method for presenting search engine results based on the domain name related reputation includes the following steps. An Inquirer posts a search query to a search engine. The search engine forms search engine results based at least in part on the domain name related reputation and returns the results to the Inquirer. The Inquirer may be a network user or an automated service querying the search engine. Search engine results may include links to websites web pages or documents on the networks. The networks may include the Internet.

Alternatively or additionally reputation ratings scores values may be shown next to or in conjunction with the links in the search engine results. Thus allowing the network user to determine whether to visit the link or not. Further the search engines may use domain name related reputation from various databases and sources including those maintained by the Registering Entities.

The search engine may store reputation data with the links to the network documents and web pages. This may speed up the process of returning the search engine results to the Inquirer.

An alternative embodiment of the system of the present invention is illustrated in . The system may include a Registering Entity a Domain Names Database a Reputation Database a Presentation Means a Subject and a Certification Authority . The Registering Entity may be a domain name Registry a Registrar of domain names or a Reseller of a Registrar. The Registering Entity may be an accredited ICANN Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers Registry or Registrar. Examples of ICANN accredited Registrars include GoDaddy.com Wild West Domains etc. The Registering Entity maintains the Domain Names Database . The Domain Names Database contains one or more domain names registered through or with the Registering Entity or registered through or with another party. The Subject is a person or an entity associated with one or more domain names registered through the Registering Entity .

The Certification Authority may use data saved in the Reputation Database to verify subscribers requesting secure certificates from the Certification Authority . Alternatively or additionally the Certification Authority may refuse to issue a secure certificate to a subscriber or associated domain name with a low reputation.

Alternatively the Certification Authority may have direct access to the Reputation Database and or the Domain Names Database . The Certification Authority and the Registering Entity may be the same or related companies or may be unrelated but cooperate with each other.

Further as shown in the Domain Names Database may be maintained by an entity other than the Registering Entity e.g. by a third party registering entity a First Registering Entity . The Domain Names Database contains one or more domain names registered through or with the Registering Entity or registered through or with another party.

Alternatively or additionally the level of verification may be a function of a date of last renewal a date of last transfer a date of last changes in the WHOIS records etc.

Further as shown in the type of the allowable secure certificate may be determined from the domain name related reputation data Step . The certificate type may include Extended Validation EV regular validation domain validation only Server Gated Cryptography SGC Advanced Encryption Standard AES Secure Site Managed PKI Wildcard Pro Standard Turbo Quick Basic certificates etc. Typically the higher reputation ratings would allow for a more advanced certificate type.

In one implementation the present disclosure provides a method including calculating by at least one server communicatively coupled to a network a rating for a domain name. The rating is based in part on reputation data for the domain name. The method includes receiving by the at least one server a domain name query from a requester and forming by the at least one server a listing of candidate domain names using the domain name query. An inclusion of the domain name into the listing of candidate domain names or an order placement of the domain name within the listing of candidate domain names is a function of the rating for the domain name. The method includes returning by the at least one server the listing of candidate domain names to the requester.

In another implementation the present disclosure provides a method including receiving by at least one server communicatively coupled to a network a request for a domain name from a requester identifying by the at least one server a plurality of candidate domain names relevant to the request and calculating by the at least one server a reputation rating for each one of the plurality of candidate domain names. The method includes displaying by the at least one server a user interface depicting the plurality of candidate domain names and an indication of the reputation rating of each one of the plurality of candidate domain names.

In another implementation the present disclosure provides a method including identifying by at least one server a domain name calculating by the at least one server a reputation rating for the domain name and storing by the at least one server the reputation rating in a memory.

As a non limiting example the steps described above and all methods described herein may be performed by any central processing unit CPU or processor in a computer or computing system such as a microprocessor running on a server computer and executing instructions stored perhaps as applications scripts apps and or other software in computer readable media accessible to the CPU or processor such as a hard disk drive on a server computer which may be communicatively coupled to a network including the Internet . Such software may include server side software client side software browser implemented software e.g. a browser plugin and other software configurations.

Other embodiments and uses of this invention will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification and examples given should be considered exemplary only and it is contemplated that the appended claims will cover any other such embodiments or modifications as fall within the true scope of the invention.

The Abstract accompanying this specification is provided to enable the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and gist of the technical disclosure and in no way intended for defining determining or limiting the present invention or any of its embodiments.

