---

title: Context-aware in-vehicle dashboard
abstract: Context-aware in-vehicle dashboard systems and methods are disclosed. Said systems and methods are capable of determining vehicle states and context using a variety of both vehicle-based and non-vehicle based data sources, and adapting to different vehicle states. Systems and methods in accordance with the present disclosure may be capable of presenting different information and/or notifications based on the vehicle state and the category/priority of the information and/or notifications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226115&OS=09226115&RS=09226115
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09226115
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20130812
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Indian Application 2682 CHE 2013 filed Jun. 20 2013. The aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure generally relates to vehicle dashboard systems instrument clusters central consoles and alternatives thereto.

Automobiles and other vehicles such as aerospace and marine vehicles employ dashboards and instrument clusters having a number of mechanical parts including various analog instruments meters complex wiring mechanisms circuit boards etc. which are assembled together. These largely mechanical dashboards thus require intricate installation and servicing requirements and each mechanical component suffers from gradual inevitable wear and tear that may necessitate their replacement.

Vehicle dashboards and instrument clustered are typically arranged near the driver s side of the vehicle. However the driver is still often required to interact with the vehicle s central console in order to access certain vehicle functions such as control of the internal environment e.g. cabin temperature navigation systems audio video playback devices etc. The position of the central console is typically aligned with the vehicle s midline. The central console thus presents a continuing distraction to driving and may also be inconvenient for the driver to access. Like vehicle dashboards central consoles also include mechanical components which require installation and replacement due to inevitable wear and tear.

Thus systems and methods which are context aware capable of adapting to different vehicle states and or capable of merging critical or high priority vehicle related information sources with non critical or low priority non vehicle related information sources while at the same time enhancing safety are needed.

The present disclosure relates to a dashboard for a vehicle comprising a primary display area a secondary display area and one or more hardware processors wherein the one or more hardware processors are in communication with the primary display area and the secondary display area and wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured to A determine whether the vehicle is in motion stationary in traffic or stationary in park based on at least one of a vehicle s engine state a vehicle s speed a proximity of the vehicle to a traffic signal junction a proximity of the vehicle to a parking lot or a vehicle s gear state B receive a notification request containing a notification from an application being executed by the one or more hardware processors C provide the notification using at least one of the primary display area or the secondary display area based on I the determination of whether the vehicle is in motion stationary in traffic or stationary in park and II a categorization of the application and D prioritize execution of the application by the one or more hardware processors based on the categorization of the application.

In certain embodiments determining whether the vehicle is in motion stationary in traffic or stationary in park comprises using one or more context determination algorithms executed on the one or more hardware processors. In certain embodiments two or more context determination algorithms are used and each context determination algorithm individually determines whether the vehicle is in motion stationary in traffic or stationary in park based on at least one of a vehicle s engine state a vehicle s speed a proximity of the vehicle to a traffic signal junction a proximity of the vehicle to a parking lot or a vehicle s gear state and the one or more hardware processors are configured to determine whether the vehicle is in motion stationary in traffic or stationary in park by weighting the determination of each context determination algorithm.

In certain embodiments the primary display area and the secondary display area are integrated into a single display device.

In certain embodiments the one or more hardware processors are further configured to receive input from a driver using one or more input devices wherein the one or more input devices include at least one of a touch sensitive surface a motion sensing detector a microphone a keyboard a touchscreen keyboard and a pointing device. The one or more hardware processors may be configured to process input from the microphone using a natural language processing algorithm. The one or more hardware processors may be configured to disable one or more input devices when the vehicle is in motion.

In certain embodiments the one or more hardware processors may be configured to determine whether the vehicle is in motion stationary in traffic or stationary in park using one or more on board sensors wherein the one or more on board sensors include at least one of an accelerometer a gyroscope a speedometer or a GPS.

In certain embodiments the one or more hardware processors are configured to provide the notification using the primary display area when I the one or more hardware processors determine that the vehicle is in motion and II the application is categorized as a high priority application. The one or more hardware processors may provide the notification using the secondary display area when I the one or more the one or more hardware processors determine that the vehicle is stationary in park and II the application is categorized as an intermediate or low priority application.

In certain embodiments the one or more hardware processors are further configured to determine whether the application has been associated with the primary display area or the secondary display area and save the association to a remote storage device when the application has been associated with the primary display area or the secondary display area. Determining whether the application has been associated with the primary display area or secondary display area may include determining whether the association has been saved to the remote storage device.

The present disclosure also relates to a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions for providing a dashboard for a vehicle having a primary display area and a secondary display area wherein execution of the instructions by one or more hardware processors causes the one or more hardware processors to A determine whether the vehicle is in motion stationary in traffic or stationary in park based on at least one of a vehicle s engine state a vehicle s speed a proximity of the vehicle to a traffic signal junction a proximity of the vehicle to a parking lot or a vehicle s gear state B receive a notification request containing a notification from an application being executed by the one or more hardware processors C provide the notification using at least one of the primary display area or the secondary display area based on I the determination of whether the vehicle is in motion stationary in traffic or stationary in park and II a categorization of the application and D prioritize execution of the application by the one or more hardware processors based on the categorization of the application.

Additional objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate embodiments of the present disclosure and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the present disclosure.

As used herein reference to an element by the indefinite article a or an does not exclude the possibility that more than one of the element is present unless the context clearly requires that there is one and only one of the elements. The indefinite article a or an thus usually means at least one. The disclosure of numerical ranges should be understood as referring to each discrete point within the range inclusive of endpoints unless otherwise noted.

As used herein vehicles may include automobiles boats airplanes trailers buses trains trucks etc. and may generally refer to any mode of conveyance of persons and or objects. Certain embodiments of the present disclosure may be directed to particular vehicles e.g. automobiles.

The vehicle based data sources may provide information regarding the vehicle s operating state using on board sensors including those available through a vehicle s CAN bus OBD sensors other on board sensors on board GPS devices and or on board input devices . The vehicle based information may comprise parameters including the vehicle s speed acceleration engine RPM engine temperature fuel level fuel range battery level battery temperature gear oil level wiper fluid level windshield wiper state location e.g. GPS coordinates cabin temperature external temperature headlight status mileage tire pressure etc. These parameters may be obtained by the dashboard system via the on board vehicle CAN bus or through equivalent means e.g. a vehicle based network and other communication protocols such as radio satellite USB Bluetooth LAN WLAN WAN 3G 4G LTE etc. . Other on board sensors may include accelerometers gyroscopes speedometers etc. In certain exemplary embodiments the dashboard system may communicate with the vehicle based data sources via the vehicle CAN bus or equivalent hardwired communication links. The vehicle based data sources may also include one or more on board input devices for the dashboard system that allow for user interaction such as an interaction between the dashboard system and a driver or other vehicle passenger. The one or more input devices may include for example a keyboard a mouse a microphone a touch sensitive surface e.g. a resistive or capacitive touchscreen motion sensing detectors e.g. gesture based input devices and the like. The vehicle based data sources may also communicate with local devices such a driver s smartphone or other computing device to provide for example phone dialing and SMS MMS capability.

The non vehicle based data sources may provide information from external data sources and third party content providers. Such information may include for example navigation information e.g. maps route guidance points of interest POI etc. weather information traffic information and the like. Applications being executed by the dashboard system may also be provided access to non vehicle based data sources . The dashboard system may communicate with the non vehicle based data sources using various communication protocols such as radio satellite USB Bluetooth LAN WLAN WAN 3G 4G LTE etc. Certain non vehicle based data sources may be accessed using Internet communication protocols. Thus in certain exemplary embodiments the dashboard system may communicates with the non vehicle based data sources using wireless communication protocols capable of accessing the Internet.

The dashboard system may communicate with both cloud storage and app store using for example the same protocols used to communicate with the non vehicle based data sources . Dashboard system may also communicate using different protocols than that used to communicate with the non vehicle based data sources . Cloud storage may provide remote non volatile data storage for the dashboard system . In certain embodiments cloud storage may be used by the dashboard system as remote backup storage and data stored locally by the dashboard system may be synchronized to cloud storage . Synchronization may occur periodically or continuously as the dashboard system writes data to its local storage. App store may provide access to third party applications capable of being executed by the dashboard system . Certain functionalities of the dashboard system discussed below may be exploited by third party applications using an application programming interface API .

The display may comprise a primary display area and a secondary display area . In certain embodiments the display may be a single display having a single contiguous display area. In these embodiments the primary display area and the secondary display area correspond to different spatial areas of the single contiguous display area and the display may be arranged in the vehicle such that the single contiguous display area extends from the driver s side of the vehicle to any point either on the driver s side or the passenger s side of the vehicle. For example the single contiguous display area may extend from the driver s side of the vehicle to just beyond the vehicle s centerline.

In other embodiments the display may comprises one or more contiguous display areas and or one or more displays. In these embodiments contiguous display areas may be arranged in different locations within the vehicle. Thus in addition to the arrangement described in the previous embodiment where a contiguous display area may extend from the driver s side of the vehicle to a point before or to the passenger s side of the vehicle another exemplary contiguous display area may be placed on the front of the steering wheel. Where the display comprises one or more contiguous display areas and or one or more displays the primary display area and the secondary display area may correspond to different spatial areas of the one or more contiguous display areas and or one or more displays. Thus the primary display area may correspond to the contiguous display area on the front of the steering wheel and the portion of the contiguous display area extending from the driver s side of the vehicle to the passenger s side of the vehicle closer to the driver s side while the secondary display area may correspond of the portion of the contiguous display area extending from the driver s side of the vehicle to the passenger s side of the vehicle closer to the passenger s side. In certain exemplary embodiments the primary display area and the secondary display area may correspond to mutually exclusive display areas of the display . In other exemplary embodiments primary display area and secondary display area may correspond to overlapping display areas of the display .

The display may include one or more light emitting diode LED displays liquid crystal displays LCD and or organic light emitting diode displays OLED . The display may include a touch sensitive surface such that one or more contiguous display areas including one or more of the primary display area and the secondary display area may facilitate tactile or gesture input from a user and or driver. Thus the dashboard system may receive tactile or gesture input from display in addition to the one or more input devices . In certain embodiments the one or more input devices includes a microphone that allows the dashboard system to receive voice or audio input from a user the voice or audio input may be processed using natural language processing algorithms being executed on the one or more hardware processors. Thus in certain embodiments in accordance with the present disclosure the dashboard system may be capable of receiving both voice or audio and tactile gesture input. The dashboard system may also be integrated in the vehicle s audio system and thereby provide audio output. Alternatively the dashboard system may comprise one or more audio output devices e.g. speakers for providing audio output.

The local storage device may provide a hardware memory for storing data needed by dashboard operating system . Thus the local storage device may comprise a non transitory computer readable medium storing instruction that when executed by one more hardware processors carry out of the functionalities of the dashboard operating system discussed herein. Data stored on the local storage device may be replicated in cloud storage for backup purposes. For example an application executed by the dashboard operating system on the one or more hardware processors may periodically or continuously synchronize the data stored in the local storage device with cloud storage . Exemplary embodiments of the local storage device may include for example a hard disk drive a solid state drive SSD a flash memory etc.

The dashboard operating system may comprise one or more data gateways an application runtime environment a context aware module and a notification module . The one or more data gateways provide a software hardware interface for various data sources e.g. the vehicle based data sources the non vehicle based data sources cloud storage and app store . Various communication protocols may be employed by the one more data gateways e.g. connection to the vehicle CAN bus a vehicle based network and any other communication protocols such as radio satellite USB Bluetooth LAN WLAN WAN 3G 4G LTE etc.

The application runtime environment of the dashboard operating system may execute one or more applications that implement the functionalities of the dashboard system . The one more applications may include a virtual dashboard that uses the display to graphically depict vehicle related information. Examples of vehicle related information include information regarding the state of the vehicle including for example speed mileage engine temperature engine maintenance state trip mileage engine RPM oil level battery level battery temperature battery temperature range etc. The virtual dashboard application may use display to provide vehicle related information using graphical elements and or a graphical user interface GUI that simulate mechanical and or analog dashboards and instrument clusters such as for example speedometers odometers fuel gauges mileage counters oil light indicators engine light indicators gear indicators head light indicators turn signal indicator etc. Thus for example the virtual dashboard application may monitor the speed of a vehicle by requesting or being provided with the vehicle s speed from a vehicle based data source e.g. an on board sensor measuring the vehicle s speed via the one or more data gateways the virtual dashboard may then provide a graphical simulation of a speedometer using display to provide information regarding the vehicle s speed. The application runtime environment may also execute applications approximating the functionality of vehicle central consoles such as for example a clock a temperature control dial a fan level switch an air conditioning on off toggle an emergency hazard light on off toggle a fuel efficiency indicator a GPS navigation display and or interface a radio station dial a volume dial CD MP3 audio player display and or interface a DVD video player display and or interface etc. The application runtime environment may also execute other applications including apps obtained from app store including for example social media applications location based service applications digital assistant applications e.g. a context aware digital assistant application web browsing applications document processing applications e.g. word processing applications spreadsheet applications e mail applications etc. entertainment applications e.g. game applications media player applications etc.

Applications executed by the application runtime environment may be categorized according to various parameters. In certain embodiments the categorization of applications executed by runtime environment comprises assigning a priority to the applications relevant to the safe operation of a vehicle. Thus for example information regarding a vehicle s speed should be provided in an accurate and real time manner in order to ensure that a driver is capable of obeying relevant traffic laws and safely operating the vehicle. On the other hand other applications e.g. a media player application showing a movie may be considered to have only tangential relation to the safe operation of a vehicle. Dashboard may therefore provide that the execution of applications critical to the safe operation of a vehicle take precedence over the execution of less critical applications. Thus as shown in application runtime environment may be subdivided into multiple application runtime environments having varying priorities of execution. Applications running in an application runtime environment having a higher priority of execution may be given prioritized execution by using various hardware and or software based techniques for example processor affinity e.g. granting processor affinity memory or storage allocation optimization e.g. allocating memory or storage in contiguous regions multithreading e.g. allowing an application to execute using multiple process threads CPU scheduling e.g. providing more CPU cycles to the application etc. Applications capable of being executed by the dashboard operating system may also be provided with a predefined priority e.g. high priority intermediate priority or low priority based on the predefined priority the dashboard operating system may launch the application in the appropriate application runtime environment.

Thus in certain exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure applications may be assigned a high priority a Level 1 application intermediate priority a Level 2 application or low priority a Level 3 application . Additionally application runtime environment may be subdivided into a Level 1 application runtime environment a Level 2 application runtime environment and a Level 3 application runtime environment. As shown in additional subdivisions and application priorities may be used for example a Level N application may be assigned to a Level N application runtime environment . Level 1 application may be granted processor affinity multithreaded execution permission and optimized memory storage allocation while Level 2 applications may be provided with multithreaded execution permission and Level 3 applications are given no hardware or software based prioritization. Applications providing vehicle related information e.g. the virtual dashboard application may be executed in the Level 1 application runtime environment while a GPS navigation application may be executed in a Level 2 application runtime environment and a social media application may be executed in a Level 3 application runtime environment. While the exemplary embodiment described herein describes 3 priority levels any number of priority levels may be used.

Prioritization categorization of applications capable of being executed by the dashboard operating system may be provided using app store . App store may provide a closed development ecosystem that allows developers to create applications using an application programming interface API . The API exposes certain functionalities of dashboard system including access to vehicle on board data sources via e.g. one or more data gateways and display . An app created using the API may be prioritized for example based on the API functionalities embedded the app. For example a developer may develop a speedometer app that uses API subroutines that obtain a vehicle s speed from a vehicle based data source e.g. an on board sensor measuring the vehicle s speed via the one or more data gateways and display the vehicle s speed using display . Based the app s use of these API functionalities the app store may categorize the speedometer app as a high priority application e.g. a Level 1 application. Alternatively app store may allow priority to be assigned to an application at the time the app is approved for distribution via app store .

Applications being executed by the dashboard operating system in the application runtime environment may display a persistent GUI using display . In certain embodiments the persistent GUI is displayed in either the primary display area or the secondary display area based on the categorization or priority of the application the runtime environment and or the state of the vehicle. Thus a Level 1 application providing information regarding the vehicle e.g. a speedometer application may provide a persistent GUI display using the primary display area while a Level 3 application providing a social media interface may provide a persistent GUI display using the secondary display area . A user may customize the appearance of the display for example by requesting an application display a persistent GUI on the primary display area or the secondary display area the ability of the user to customize the location of persistent GUI may be restricted such that certain applications e.g. applications having distracting visual elements applications requiring constant user input etc. may not be made available in the primary display area . Thus in certain embodiments only applications that are considered safe and non distracting may be displayed in the primary display area while applications relevant to safe vehicle operation may not be removed from the primary display area or moved to for example the secondary display area . Where an application may be displayed may also depend on the vehicle context thus certain applications may be displayed in certain areas e.g. the primary display area when the vehicle is stationary in park but not when the vehicle is in motion and or stationary in traffic.

Applications being executed by the dashboard operating system in the application runtime environment may provide a notification regarding for example a real time event such as traffic congestion update a weather update or other weather advisory an excess speed notification a service warning or update e.g. a reminder regarding an oil change engine service tire rotation pressure etc. a social media update a SMS MMS email or other personal communication and advertisement promotional material etc. The notification may be provided using display for example using the primary display area the secondary display area and or one or more notification regions not shown in which may overlap or be contiguous with the primary display area and or secondary display area . The dashboard operating system may decide via for example notification module whether to display the notification and or where to display the notification e.g. using the primary display area the secondary display area and or a notification region based on the categorization prioritization of the application and a determination from context aware module regarding the state of vehicle as in motion stationary in traffic or stationary in park. In certain embodiments notifications may be provided using only the primary display area . In other embodiments notifications may be displayed using both the primary display area and the secondary display area for example using one or more notification regions.

The context aware module may determine the state of the vehicle using one or more context determination algorithms . In addition to being used by the context aware module the one or more context determination algorithms may also be exposed as part of the API thus allowing third party applications to be contextually customized. The one or more context determination algorithms may determine vehicle context based on parameters obtained from the vehicle based data sources and or non vehicle based data sources . A context determination algorithm may comprise determining one or more parameters using the vehicle based data sources and or non vehicle based data sources and determining whether the vehicle is in motion stationary in park or stationary in traffic based on the determined parameters. Thus one embodiment of a context determination algorithm comprises determining the vehicle engine state as on or off and determining the speed of the vehicle using for example a speedometer. For example if the vehicle engine state is on and the speed of the vehicle is greater than about zero then the vehicle is in motion if the vehicle engine state is on and the speed of the vehicle is about zero then the vehicle is stationary in traffic if the vehicle engine is off with the vehicle gear state in park then the vehicle is stationary in park. Another embodiment of a context determination algorithm comprises determining the vehicle gear state e.g. in park or in drive and determining the speed of the vehicle using for example a speedometer if the vehicle gear state is in park then the vehicle is stationary in park if the vehicle gear state is in drive and the speed of the vehicle is greater than about zero then the vehicle is in motion if the vehicle gear state is in drive and the speed of the vehicle is about zero then the vehicle is stationary in traffic. Another embodiment of a context determination algorithm comprises determining the vehicle s engine state as on or off determining the speed of the vehicle using for example a speedometer and determining the proximity of the vehicle to the closest traffic junction by determining the location of the vehicle using for example GPS and the location of one or more nearby traffic junctions using for example a non vehicle based data source providing navigation information. For example if the vehicle engine is off with the vehicle gear state in park then the vehicle is stationary in park if the vehicle engine is on and the speed of the vehicle is greater than about zero then the vehicle is in motion if the vehicle engine is on and the speed of the vehicle is about zero and the vehicle is far away from the closest traffic junction e.g. further than about 100 meters from the closest traffic junction then the vehicle is stationary in park if the vehicle engine is on and the speed of the vehicle is about zero and the vehicle is near the closest traffic junction e.g. less than about 100 meters from the closest traffic junction then the vehicle is stationary in traffic. Other embodiments of context determination algorithms may use information regarding a driver s historical driving behavior information regarding a driver s personal schedule information obtained from a driver s social media profiles information regarding a GPS route guidance etc.

Context aware module may employ one or more context determination algorithms to determine the state of the vehicle. In the case where context aware module employs more than one context determination algorithm e.g. 2 to 100 context determination algorithms the accuracy of the determination may be enhanced. For example context aware module may determine that a vehicle is stationary in park only if a majority or plurality of the context determination algorithms determines that the vehicle is stationary in park. The context aware module may also weight the determinations of the context determination algorithms such that determinations received from certain context determination algorithms are accorded more significance. For example context aware module may employ N context determination algorithms C C C . . . C . . . C which determine the state of a vehicle as either in motion stationary in traffic or stationary in park. These vehicle states may correspond to output vectors V having value of or with respect to the three exemplary states context determination algorithms Cto Cmay output state vectors Vto V respectively. Context aware module may assign N scalar weight values W W W W . . . W . . . W wherein the weight Wcorresponds to the weight value of context determination algorithm C. Context aware module may then sum W Vfor i ranging from 1 to N to produce state vector wherein A has a value associated with the state of the vehicle as in motion B has a value associated with the state of the vehicle as stationary in traffic and C has a value associated with the state of the vehicle as stationary in park. Context aware module may then determine the maximum value of A B and C the state associated with the maximum of A B and C is the state of vehicle as determined by the context aware module in this embodiment.

Systems and methods in accordance with the present disclosure may also allow a driver to transfer their settings between one or more dashboard systems . For example a dashboard system regularly used by a driver may store the driver s settings e.g. user customizations downloaded apps etc. to cloud storage . If the driver uses another vehicle equipped with a dashboard system the driver may log into the new dashboard system using for example a login and password or other authentication. Dashboard system may then load or synchronize the driver s settings thereby providing the driver with the same virtual dashboard applications user customizations etc. as the dashboard system regularly used by the driver. Thus the driver is provided with a consistent driving experience also improving safety. It is also envisioned that a dashboard system may be transferred between vehicles thus saving on manufacturing and purchasing costs.

