---

title: Detection and response to unauthorized access to a communication device
abstract: A communication gateway consistent with the present disclosure may detect unauthorized physical or electronic access and implement security actions in response thereto. A communication gateway may provide a communication path to an intelligent electronic device (IED) using an IED communications port configured to communicate with the IED. The communication gateway may include a physical intrusion detection port and a network port. The communication gateway may further include control logic configured to evaluate physical intrusion detection signal. The control logic may be configured to determine that the physical intrusion detection signal is indicative of an attempt to obtain unauthorized access to one of the communication gateway, the IED, and a device in communication with the gateway; and take a security action based upon the determination that the indication is indicative of the attempt to gain unauthorized access.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09130945&OS=09130945&RS=09130945
owner: Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories, Inc.
number: 09130945
owner_city: Pullman
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 713 391 filed 12 Oct. 2012 and titled DETECTION AND RESPONSE TO UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO A COMMUNICATION DEVICE which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE OE0000538 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for detecting and responding to an unauthorized access to a communication device. More particularly the systems and methods disclosed herein may be implemented in connection with network devices and intelligent electronic devices in an electric power delivery system to detect and respond to unauthorized physical access.

In the following description numerous specific details are provided for a thorough understanding of the various embodiments disclosed herein. The systems and methods disclosed herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In addition in some cases well known structures materials or operations may not be shown or described in detail in order to avoid obscuring aspects of the disclosure. Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more alternative embodiments.

The present disclosure provides systems and methods for detecting and responding to unauthorized access to a communication device. According to various embodiments the communication device may be configured for secure communication with one or more intelligent electronic devices IEDs a supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA system and or a communication network. IEDs may be configured to monitor a portion of an electric power delivery system and provide control to the electric power delivery system. According to various protection and control algorithms IEDs may be configured to communicate with other IEDs controllers data acquisition systems and or the like.

IEDs may be positioned near control centers in substations or may be distributed in the electric power delivery system. For example IEDs may be positioned near primary equipment on transmission or distribution lines away from the substation. In one embodiment the IED may be a recloser control in communication with and providing protection and control to a recloser. The recloser may be located remote from the substation. The IED may be disposed for example in a cabinet or other enclosure mounted on a power pole.

Remotely located equipment associated with an electric power delivery system pose a security risk in that unauthorized users may be able to obtain physical access to an enclosure containing such equipment. While the enclosures are typically physically secured using locks fences or other barriers such barriers may be overcome by an unauthorized user with sufficient motivation. Equipment stored within an enclosure may include buttons human machine interfaces and other mechanisms for changing settings associated with the equipment. Further communications may be unencrypted within a cabinet building or other enclosure containing equipment associated with an electric power delivery system. This may be true particularly where legacy systems are used that do not natively support encrypted communication. Accordingly an unauthorized user with physical access to and unencrypted communication channel may present significant security concerns.

One possible remediation is to place a communication gateway in the cabinet with the IED. The IED may be configured to communicate only with the communication gateway which in turn may communicate with the controller data acquisition system or the like. The communication gateway may be configured to encrypt communications with the controller data acquisition system and the like however if the cabinet is compromised the communications gateway and or IED may remain vulnerable to attack.

Communications among IEDs in an electric power delivery system may typically be trusted communications. As the term is used herein a trusted communication refers to a message that includes indicia of trust. Indicia of trust may include but is not limited to a recognized identifier in the message that is associated with a trusted source a trusted communication path or port from which the message is received an authenticated node that submitted the message an encrypted message capable of being deciphered using a technique e.g. public private key cryptography or a message that includes authentication criteria. Of course other indicia of trust may also be utilized in connection with various embodiments consistent with the present disclosure.

According to various embodiments disclosed herein a communications gateway includes physical access detection for detecting when an enclosure is opened and or otherwise physically accessed. The communications gateway may further be configured to take certain steps when unauthorized access to an enclosure is detected. For example according to some embodiments communications received from the gateway after a detection of unauthorized physical access may no longer be trusted. Accordingly certain actions or commands may be selectively disregarded as a result of the untrusted nature of the communications. According to some embodiments communications from a communications gateway that has been accessed without authorization may be blocked entirely. The communication gateway may further be configured to log all communications after unauthorized physical access has been detected.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. In particular an embodiment may be a system an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium a method and or a product of a process.

The phrases connected to and in communication with refer to any form of interaction between two or more components including mechanical electrical magnetic and electromagnetic interaction. Two components may be connected to each other even though they are not in direct contact with each other and even though there may be intermediary devices between the two components. For instance an IED may be connected to a gateway session manager through one or more intermediary IEDs or networking devices. Such networks may be modeled as tree structures as is common in the art.

As used herein the term IED may refer to any microprocessor based device that monitors controls automates and or protects monitored equipment within a system. Such devices may include for example remote terminal units differential relays distance relays directional relays feeder relays overcurrent relays voltage regulator controls voltage relays breaker failure relays generator relays motor relays automation controllers bay controllers meters recloser controls communications processors computing platforms programmable logic controllers PLCs programmable automation controllers input and output modules motor drives and the like. IEDs may be connected to a network and communication on the network may be facilitated by networking devices including but not limited to multiplexers routers hubs gateways firewalls and switches. Furthermore networking and communication devices may be incorporated in an IED or may be in communication with an IED. The term IED may be used interchangeably to describe an individual IED or a system comprising multiple IEDs.

As used herein the term login credentials may refer to any type of authentication method known to be useful in the art. For example login credentials commonly refer to an ASCII encoded username and password combination accordingly the terms login credentials and username and password s may be used interchangeably herein. However username and password s may be replaced with any of a wide variety of authentication protocols and or techniques including cryptographic protocols for authenticating machines challenge response methods zero knowledge proofs time synchronized single use passwords security tokens biometric authentication graphical or other non text based passwords voice authentication and the like.

Some of the infrastructure that can be used with embodiments disclosed herein is already available such as general purpose computers computer programming tools and techniques digital storage media and communications networks. A computer may include a processor such as a microprocessor microcontroller logic circuitry or the like. The processor may include a special purpose processing device such as an ASIC PAL PLA PLD Field Programmable Gate Array or other customized or programmable device. The computer may also include a computer readable storage device such as non volatile memory static RAM dynamic RAM ROM CD ROM disk tape magnetic optical flash memory or other computer readable storage medium.

Suitable networks for configuration and or use as described herein include one or more local area networks wide area networks metropolitan area networks and or Internet or internet protocol IP networks such as the World Wide Web a private Internet a secure Internet a value added network a virtual private network an extranet an intranet or even standalone machines that communicate with other machines by physical transport of media. In particular a suitable network may be formed from parts or entireties of two or more other networks including networks using disparate hardware and network communication technologies. A network may incorporate landlines wireless communication and combinations thereof.

The network may include communications or networking software such as software available from Novell Microsoft Artisoft and other vendors and may operate using TCP IP SPX IPX RS 232 and other protocols over twisted pair coaxial or optical fiber cables telephone lines satellites microwave relays modulated AC power lines physical media transfer and or other data transmission media. The network may encompass smaller networks and or may be connectable to other networks through a gateway or similar mechanism.

Aspects of certain embodiments described herein may be implemented as software modules or components. As used herein a software module or component may include any type of computer instruction or computer executable code located within or on a computer readable storage medium. A software module may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as a routine program object component data structure etc. that performs one or more tasks or implements particular abstract data types.

In certain embodiments a particular software module may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations of a computer readable storage medium which together implement the described functionality of the module. Indeed a module may comprise a single instruction or many instructions and may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several computer readable storage media. Some embodiments may be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by a remote processing device linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software modules may be located in local and or remote computer readable storage media. In addition data being tied or rendered together in a database record may be resident in the same computer readable storage medium or across several computer readable storage media and may be linked together in fields of a record in a database across a network.

The software modules described herein tangibly embody programs functions and or instructions that are executable by computer s to perform tasks as described herein. Suitable software as applicable may be provided using the teachings presented herein and programming languages and tools such as XML Java Pascal C C database languages APIs SDKs assembly firmware microcode and or other languages and tools. Additionally software firmware and hardware may be interchangeably used to implement a given function.

In some cases well known features structures or operations are not shown or described in detail. Furthermore the described features structures or operations may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. It will also be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. All such configurations are encompassed within the scope of the present disclosure.

The embodiments of the disclosure will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout. The components of the disclosed embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of the systems and methods of the disclosure is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure as claimed but is merely representative of possible embodiments. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of this disclosure. In addition the steps of a method do not necessarily need to be executed in any specific order or even sequentially nor need the steps be executed only once unless otherwise specified.

The electric power delivery system illustrated in may include a generation substation . Substation may include generators and which are connected to a bus through step up transformers and . Bus may be connected to bus in substation via transmission line . Although the equipment in substation may be monitored and or controlled by various IEDs only a single IED is shown. IED may be a transformer protection IED for transformer . IED may be in communication with a common time source which as indicated below may be distributed in system using a communications network or using a universal time source such as a global positioning system GPS or the like. Utilizing a common or universal time source may ensure that IEDs have a synchronized time signal that can be used to generate time synchronized data such as synchrophasors.

Substation may include a generator which may be a distributed generator and which may be connected to bus through step up transformer . Bus may be connected to a distribution bus via a step down transformer . Various distribution lines and may be connected to distribution bus . Distribution line may lead to substation where the line is monitored and or controlled using IED which may selectively open and close breaker . Load may be fed from distribution line . Further step down transformer may be used to step down a voltage for consumption by load .

Distribution line may lead to substation and deliver electric power to bus . Bus may also receive electric power from distributed generator via transformer . Distribution line may deliver electric power from bus to load and may include further step down transformer . Circuit breaker may be used to selectively connect bus to distribution line . IED may be used to monitor and or control circuit breaker as well as distribution line .

A central IED may be in communication with various IEDs and using a data communications network. IEDs and may be remote from central IED . The remote IEDs and may communicate over various media such as a direct communication from IED or over a wide area communications network . IEDs and may be communicatively linked together using a data communications network and may further be communicatively linked to a central monitoring system such as a supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA system an information system IS and or a wide area control and situational awareness WCSA system . The data communications network among IEDs and may utilize a variety of network technologies and may comprise network devices such as modems routers firewalls virtual private network servers and the like which are not shown in .

The various IEDs in system may obtain electric power information from monitored equipment using potential transformers PTs for voltage measurements e.g. potential transformer current transformers CTs for current measurements e.g. current transformer and the like. The PTs and CTs may include any device capable of providing outputs that can be used by the IEDs to make potential and current measurements and may include traditional PTs and CTs optical PTs and CTs Rogowski coils hall effect sensors and the like.

Each IED may be configured to access a common time source . Common time source may be distributed via a communications network using for example IEEE 1588 protocol NTP protocol or the like or obtained locally at each IED. Common time source may be a universal time such as that delivered using GPS satellites WWVB WWV or the like. A common time source may be used to time synchronize measurements of the electric power system and or in the calculation of synchrophasors. Phasors calculated by the IEDs may include a time stamp indicating a time at which the measurement was made.

Central IED may also be in communication with a number of other devices or systems. Such devices or systems may include for example a WCSA system SCADA system or local Human Machine Interface HMI . Local HMI may be used to change settings issue control instructions retrieve an event report retrieve data and the like. In some embodiments WCSA system may receive and process the time aligned data and may coordinate time synchronized control actions at the highest level of the electric power delivery system . Mass storage device may store data relating to system from IEDs and .

Central IED may further include a time input which may receive a time signal from a central IED time source . Central IED time source may also be used by central IED for time stamping information and data. Time synchronization may be helpful for data organization real time decision making as well as post event analysis. Time synchronization may further be applied to network communications. In certain embodiments central IED time source and common time source may be the same time source. Common time source may be any time source that is an acceptable form of time synchronization including but not limited to a voltage controlled temperature compensated crystal oscillator Rubidium and Cesium oscillators with or without digital phase locked loops microelectromechanical systems MEMS technology which transfers the resonant circuits from the electronic to the mechanical domains or a GPS receiver with time decoding. In the absence of a common time source available to all IEDs central IED may serve as a common time source by distributing a time synchronization signal.

Information system generally includes hardware and software to enable network communication network security user administration Internet and intranet administration remote network access and the like. Information system may generate information about the network to maintain and sustain a reliable quality and secure communications network by running real time business logic on network security events perform network diagnostics optimize network performance and the like.

Data communications between IEDs and may occur using a variety of communication protocols and data formats. According to some embodiments the communication protocols and data formats may be proprietary in some instances and standardized in some instances. IEDs and may also communicate settings information IED identification information communications information status information alarm information and the like.

IEDs and may be deployed in populated areas and accordingly may be placed in physical proximity to the general public. For example system may be situated in an urban environment having a plurality of substations and located throughout a city. Accordingly controlling physical access to the substations and the IEDs poses difficulty. An unauthorized actor may attempt to gain physical access to substations and and or their constituent equipment. Upon gaining physical access to one of substations and the IEDs in the substations may be exposed to threats such as pushing buttons connecting to communication ports or the like.

Obtaining physical access to the communication links in substations and may allow an unauthorized user to avoid certain security measures intended to prevent unauthorized access to communications among IEDs and . Communications among IEDs and may typically be trusted communications. Accordingly communications purportedly originating from a trusted location trusted network or trusted source may be more easily exploited by an unauthorized user to implement changes to IED settings triggering alarms or otherwise disrupting the operation of system .

The IEDs and may be in electrical communication with the electric power delivery system for providing protection control metering and or automation thereto. IEDs and may be in communication with the communications gateway which may be in secure communication with SCADA and or a communications network . Communication gateway may include a network port which may be in communication with network switch . The communications network may facilitate communications with other IEDs via other communications gateways. A network switch may exist between the communication gateway and the communication network . Other communications gateways may also be in communication with the network switch .

Clock may be in communication with a common time source such as a global navigational satellite system GNSS a time source e.g. a time source provided by a GPS a WWVB or WWV broadcast or other common time source. Clock may provide a time signal to communication gateway which may in turn provide a time signal to IEDs and .

To detect unauthorized access to enclosure communication gateway may further be in communication with a door sensor configured to detect an opening of a door of the enclosure using any suitable detection mechanism. In some embodiments door sensor may be a cabinet door pin wired to a contact input of the communication gateway . In further embodiments door sensor may be a magnetic sensor or a pressure pin switch wired to a contact input of communication gateway . Door sensor may be configured to signal communication gateway if it detects opening of a door of the enclosure .

Furthermore to detect unauthorized access to enclosure communication gateway may be in communication with a photo detector . The photo detector may detect when the enclosure is opened by a change in lighting within the enclosure . In certain embodiments the photo detector may be capable of detecting changes in light density. The photo detector may be configured to signal the communication gateway when light is detected.

The communication gateway may be in communication with a microphone . The microphone may detect frequency and amplitude attributes to detect a physical tampering as well as events happening on the power system. That is microphone may detect sounds and communicate electrical signals representing such sounds to the communication gateway . Communication gateway may include predetermined sound attributes such that may permit communication gateway to differentiate between sounds signifying unauthorized physical access such as cutting metal or breaking locks sounds signifying events on the electric power system such as breaker opening tap position changing and the like sounds associated with natural phenomenon such as rain hail thunder etc. and sounds associated with environmental conditions such as traffic horns etc. . In another embodiment the microphone may be capable of differentiating different events and signaling the communication gateway when a sound corresponding with an unauthorized access is detected. According to some embodiments sound detected by microphone may be transmitted to a central monitoring station so that an operator may listen to the sounds and make a determination of whether such sounds are indicative of an attempt to gain unauthorized access.

The communication gateway includes an accelerometer for detecting motion. The accelerometer may be capable of providing a signal to the communication gateway corresponding with motion. According to some embodiments accelerometer may comprise a device external to communication gateway . The communication gateway may use the signal to detect when a motion corresponding with unauthorized access is present. For example repeated physical shocks may correspond with striking the enclosure in an attempt to break a lock and gain access. In another embodiment the accelerometer detects natural phenomena and or environmental conditions such as earthquakes or large storms that may be fed back to the control system so operations can make appropriate adjustments to power system configurations. Further some embodiments consistent with the present disclosure may be mounted to a utility pole. Automobile accidents may occasionally result in collisions with utility poles and accordingly an accelerometer may be triggered in the event that the pole to which the device is mounted is struck by an automobile.

Given that natural phenomenon or environmental conditions e.g. an earthquake or vehicle collision may trigger an accelerometer thunder may trigger a microphone etc. may trigger one or more physical intrusion detectors certain embodiments consistent with the present disclosure may identify alternative indications of unauthorized access prior to implementing a security action. According to one embodiment detection signals may be compared based on physical proximity of devices. For example to the extent that an earthquake triggers an accelerometer in one location nearby devices may be similarly triggered. Similarly severe weather may also impact multiple devices in the same geographic vicinity and thus a comparison of information among such devices may provide an alternative indication of whether a detection signal received from an intrusion detection system corresponds to an attempt to gain unauthorized access or to natural phenomena.

In addition to monitoring physical conditions e.g. light sound motion etc. patterns in the data transmitted to or from communication gateway may also be analyzed in order to determine attempts to obtain unauthorized physical access. When the communication gateway detects a change in communication on one of the ports it may be due to attempted unauthorized access. For example if a communication medium from an IED is removed from its port the communication over that port will change from its baseline. Communication gateway may then detect an attempted unauthorized access. Accordingly the communication gateway may be configured to detect when an unauthorized actor unplugs an active cable plugs in another cable and or begins using the communication channel.

Communication gateway may include a plurality of communication ports e.g. network port a port for communication with a SCADA system ports for receiving input from photo detector door sensor and microphone etc. . Communication ports may be embodied in a variety of ways including serial ports USB ports Ethernet ports IEEE 1394 ports etc. According to some embodiments each of photo detector door sensor and microphone may be in communication with a communication port associated with communication gateway . According to other embodiments communication gateway may include various sensors e.g. microphone photo detector etc. as integrated components. According to various embodiments elements configured to detect unauthorized access may be referred to as physical intrusion detectors.

Communication gateway may monitor each of its communications ports and establish a baseline for communication on each port. For example a port in communication with the clock will establish a baseline of communication corresponding with a signal from the clock . The ports in communication with IEDs and may establish a different baseline. Further ports that are not used will establish yet another baseline. A baseline may comprise a number of factors such as type of data volume of data etc. For example a baseline may show that a particular port historically has a very low data transmission rate. Activity during a particular period may be compared to the baseline in order to determine whether such activity is consistent with the baseline or constitutes a departure from the baseline. A significant departure from the historical data rate may indicate a departure from the baseline and accordingly may suggest an abnormal condition such as unauthorized access.

A variety of techniques may be utilized in order to determine that an unauthorized actor has begun using the communication channel. For example MAC address authentication may be one way to determine the presence of a newly connected device. When authorize changes are made a MAC address associated with the device to be added may be specified in advance so that indications from the newly added authorized device are accepted and do not give rise to an indication of unauthorized access. According to other embodiments criteria such as IP addresses communications protocols communication port numbers etc. may be used in order to detect a newly added unauthorized device. Still further technologies such as USB IEEE 1394 eSATA and the like may be used to recognize when new devices are connected to a system for the first time. Devices connected using USB IEEE 1394 and eSATA and similar technologies may be referred to as peripheral devices. If the connection of such a device is unexpected the newly connected device may be designated as an unauthorized device and one or more security actions may be taken.

Accordingly communication gateway may include several methods to detect unauthorized physical access. Communication gateway may be configurable to minimize false positives by requiring more than one signal indicating unauthorized access. According to one embodiment the communication gateway may require at least two signals e.g. a signal from each of the door sensor and the photo detector to determine unauthorized physical access. In another embodiment the communication gateway may require certain combinations of signals to determine unauthorized physical access.

Once unauthorized physical access is detected the communications gateway may take one or more actions. In one embodiment the communication gateway may have the ability to configure a normal cybersecurity profile and an elevated cybersecurity profile. Based on the detection of cyber attack or physical tampering the communication gateway may adjust to the elevated profile automatically. For example if the door sensor determines that the door has been opened and there are no scheduled work orders for that cabinet the cybersecurity profile may move to the elevated state from the normal state in an attempt to restrict further compromise of the larger system.

In one embodiment when the communications gateway detects unauthorized access it may alert upstream network devices such as network switch communications gateway and communications network that the communications from enclosure can no longer be trusted and to quarantine any communications from enclosure and or devices upstream from enclosure . Such an alert may be generated as soon as the unauthorized access is detected and the cyber response may be configurable in the upstream communication device to terminate all communications to record all traffic and or to continue typical operations but alert upstream devices to the unauthorized access.

The communication gateway may be capable of supervisory override according to certain embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. That is if authorized access to the enclosure is scheduled unauthorized access detection may be temporarily suspended. Further responses to unauthorized physical access may be temporarily suspended. Such override can be accomplished through SCADA or engineering access according to various embodiments. An override may be appropriate where an unplanned event requires physical access to an enclosure. According to one example an override may be appropriate in an instance where a vehicle has collided with utility pole on which an enclosure is located. Maintenance personnel may override a security action in order to allow a portion of the electrical power delivery system to be deenergized while the accident is addressed.

According to the embodiment illustrated in communication gateway may be physically distinct from IEDs and however according to alternative embodiments certain functionality associated with communication gateway may be incorporated into an IED. According to such embodiments an IED may comprise a plurality of ports configured to receive input from sensors of various types e.g. microphone a door sensor a photo detector an accelerometer etc. . Further such an IED may comprise ports configured for communication with a network and or a SCADA system.

In order to connect unauthorized device to communication gateway physical access to communication gateway may be necessary. Accordingly one or more physical intrusion detection signals e.g. light from the opening of the cabinet sound associated with opening a cabinet door the tripping of a door sensor etc. may be generated as a result of an unauthorized actor obtaining physical access to communication gateway . The connection of unauthorized device with communication gateway may further provide an alternative indication of unauthorized access. For example communication gateway may determine that a MAC address associated with unauthorized device is unrecognized.

As a result of the physical intrusion detection systems and the alternative indication of unauthorized access provided by connecting unauthorized device to communication gateway system may implement a security action. In a particular embodiment illustrated in communication from communication gateway may be deemed suspicious or un trusted as designated by question marks . As described above communication among the various devices in system may typically be trusted however on the detection of unauthorized access devices upstream from communication gateway may be notified of the unauthorized access and accordingly may no longer trust communications received from communication gateway . As noted above one of the indicia upon which certain communications may be trusted is receipt from a known node or trusted device in a network. Following the detection of unauthorized access the node associated with communication gateway may no longer be deemed trusted. Accordingly communications from communication gateway and devices upstream from communication gateway may no longer be trusted e.g. IED and unauthorized device to .

Various protocols may be utilized to differentiate trusted and un trusted communications according to embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. This may allow the network to adjust the policies and all appliances take cyber defense positions. In one embodiment communication gateways and may be configured to use a network access control protocol e.g. IEEE 802.1X to alert the other network appliances of an attempt to obtain unauthorized physical access to an enclosure. The 802.1X protocol may provide port based network access control and authentication of clients at the physical layer of the OSI model of computer networking. In another example an indication of unauthorized physical access may be transmitted via a SCADA system. A SCADA point may be mapped to a physical intrusion flag following detection of unauthorized physical access. Communications associated with a physical intrusion flag may be considered un trusted by the SCADA system.

According to still further embodiments system as illustrated in and may implement alternative security actions upon the detection of unauthorized device . For example system may quarantine upstream communications from communication gateway . In another example system may simulate responses to communications received from unauthorized device without implementing any changes based on such communications.

At an intrusion detection system may be activated. Method may await receipt of a detection signal from the intrusion detection system at . Once a detection signal is received at method may determine whether the detection signal is indicative of unauthorized access. As described above natural or environmental phenomena may trigger a detection signal however method may determine at that the detection signal is not indicative of unauthorized access. If such a determination is made method may return to and wait detection of a subsequent signal.

Certain embodiments may require that an unauthorized access confirmation threshold be met. According to such embodiments at method may determine whether the unauthorized access confirmation threshold is met. A wide variety of information may be analyzed in order to determine whether the confirmation threshold is met prior to implementing a security action. According to some embodiments the unauthorized access confirmation threshold may be met by an alternative sensor indication. For example the detection signal received at may be based upon sound detected by a microphone. An alternative indication may be provided by a door sensor indicating that a door or panel of the enclosure has been opened. As illustrated by this example alternative indications may be provided by multiple sensor components associated with a single enclosure. Embodiments relying on alternative indications may provide some protection against a false alarm caused by a single malfunctioning sensor.

The unauthorized access confirmation threshold may also be met using information provided by sensor components associated with other enclosures according to various embodiments. For example an earthquake may trigger an accelerometers associated with intrusion detection systems in different locations. According to various embodiments to the extent that multiple accelerometers associated with intrusion detection systems in a physical proximity generate detection signals at approximately the same time such signals may be compared in order to conclude that natural phenomena triggered the signals. As illustrated by this example alternative indications may be provided by sensor components spread across multiple enclosures.

According to still further embodiments the unauthorized access confirmation threshold may be met based upon an evaluation of a confidence interval associated with a particular detection signal. For example a signal from a door sensor may be associated with a higher confidence interval than a signal from a microphone. Accordingly in some embodiments a detection signal based upon a door sensor may be sufficient to satisfy the confirmation threshold but a signal from a microphone may be insufficient to satisfy the confirmation threshold without an alternative indication e.g. input from an accelerometer visual confirmation of an unauthorized person based upon inspection of an image obtained using a camera confirmation from an operator at a central monitoring station that the sound corresponds to an attempt to obtain unauthorized physical access etc .

At a security action may be implemented based upon unauthorized access. A variety of types of security actions may be implemented. For example according to some embodiments a firewall may be configured to block upstream communications originating from a communication device located in an enclosure that has been accessed without authorization. According to other embodiments communications for a communication device located in an enclosure that has been accessed without authorization may be flagged as untrusted. In one embodiment the security action may include triggering output contacts based on the detection of unauthorized access. For example the output contacts may trigger a light siren or even a camera. A camera activated as part of a security action may further be configured to transmit video stream or still images to a central monitoring station. According to some embodiments the security action may comprise preventing engineering access or administrator level access to the IED.

At method may determine whether the issue of unauthorized access has been resolved. Resolution of the unauthorized access may be achieved by dispatching service personnel to inspect the enclosure performing diagnostic tests reviewing video or images from the camera restricting changes to settings associated with equipment located in the enclosure. Upon a determination that the unauthorized access issue is resolved method may return to and await detection of other signals indicating unauthorized physical access.

While specific embodiments and applications of the disclosure have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosure is not limited to the precise configuration and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations apparent to those of skill in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the methods and systems of the disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

