---

title: Hot water recirculation system technologies
abstract: Technologies for use with a hot water recirculation system containing a hot water source, a flow sensor downstream from the source, a booster pump downstream from the sensor, and a plumbing fixture downstream from the pump are provided. The technologies enable a controller to couple to the sensor and the pump, and operate in a calibration mode and a control mode. Such operations can increase energy efficiency of the pump and increase operational longevity of the pump.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09353956&OS=09353956&RS=09353956
owner: 
number: 09353956
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130812
---
Generally the present disclosure relates to plumbing. More particularly the present disclosure relates to hot water recirculation systems.

In the present disclosure where a document an act and or an item of knowledge is referred to and or discussed then such reference and or discussion is not an admission that the document the act and or the item of knowledge and or any combination thereof was at the priority date publicly available known to the public part of common general knowledge and or otherwise constitutes prior art under the applicable statutory provisions and or is known to be relevant to an attempt to solve any problem with which the present disclosure is concerned.

A hot water recirculation system is a plumbing technology for rapidly delivering hot water to a plumbing fixture for instant use. Such delivery is typically achieved via a booster pump installed downstream from a hot water source and upstream from the fixture. The pump is usually powered via a power source such as mains electricity a battery a gas generator a renewable energy source and so forth. The pump is often operated more than necessary which wastes energy and wears down the pump. As a result some techniques for dealing with such method of operation have been devised. For example one technique involves coupling the pump to a timer which is programmed to activate the pump at times when hot water is typically needed. Another technique involves coupling the pump to a manual switch which is operated to activate the pump for a set time period when hot water is needed. Yet another technique involves coupling the pump to a home security system which when deactivated enables the pump to operate and when activated disables the pump from operating. Nevertheless such techniques are ineffective at least because the timer can require readjustment due to varying schedules the switch can be annoying to operate and not every home is equipped with the home security system.

While certain aspects of conventional technologies have been discussed to facilitate the present disclosure no technical aspects are disclaimed. The claims may encompass at least one of the conventional technical aspects discussed herein.

The present disclosure addresses at least one of the above. However the present disclosure may prove useful in addressing other problems and or deficiencies in a number of technical areas. Therefore the claims as recited below should not necessarily be construed as limited to addressing any of the particular problems and or deficiencies discussed herein.

According to an example embodiment of the present disclosure a device for use with a hot water recirculation system containing a hot water source a flow sensor downstream from the source a booster pump downstream from the sensor and a plumbing fixture downstream from the pump is provided. The device includes a controller configured for coupling to the sensor and the pump. The controller is operative in one of a calibration mode and a control mode when coupled to the sensor and the pump. In the calibration mode the controller determines a resting flow rate and an in use flow rate via the sensor. The resting rate is determined when the pump avoids pumping water and the fixture avoids drawing water. The in use rate is determined when the pump pumps water and the fixture draws water pumped via the pump. The controller determines a first time period indicative of time for returning from at least the in use rate to the resting rate when the pump avoids pumping water and the fixture avoids drawing water. The controller receives an input from a user for a second time period. In the control mode the controller controls the pump to pump water for duration of the second period based on the input in response to sensing at least the in use rate via the sensor. The controller controls the pump to avoid pumping water immediately after expiration of the second period for duration of at least the first period.

According to another example embodiment of the present disclosure a hot water recirculation system is provided. The system includes a hot water source a flow sensor downstream from the source a booster pump downstream from the sensor a plumbing fixture downstream from the pump and a controller coupled to the sensor and the pump. The controller is operative in one of a calibration mode and a control mode. In the calibration mode the controller determines a resting flow rate and an in use flow rate via the sensor. The resting rate is determined when the pump avoids pumping water and the fixture avoids drawing water. The in use rate is determined when the pump pumps water and the fixture draws water pumped via the pump. The controller determines a first time period indicative of time for returning from at least the in use rate to the resting rate when the pump avoids pumping water and the fixture avoids drawing water. The controller receives an input from a user for a second time period. In the control mode the controller controls the pump to pump water for duration of the second period based on the input in response to sensing at least the in use rate via the sensor. The controller controls the pump to avoid pumping water immediately after expiration of the second period for duration of at least the first period.

According to yet another example embodiment of the present disclosure a method for use with a hot water recirculation system containing a hot water source a flow sensor downstream from the source a booster pump downstream from the sensor and a plumbing fixture downstream from the pump is provided. The method includes coupling a controller to the sensor and the pump. The controller is programmed for operation in one of a calibration mode and a control mode. The method further includes operating the controller in the calibration mode such that the controller determines a resting flow rate and an in use flow rate via the sensor. The resting rate is determined when the pump avoids pumping water and the fixture avoids drawing water. The in use rate is determined when the pump pumps water and the fixture draws water pumped via the pump. The controller determines a first time period indicative of time for returning from at least the in use rate to the resting rate when the pump avoids pumping water and the fixture avoids drawing water. The controller receives an input from a user for a second time period. The method also includes operating the controller in the control mode such that the controller controls the pump to pump water for duration of the second period based on the input in response to sensing at least the in use rate via the sensor. The controller controls the pump to avoid pumping water immediately after expiration of the second period for duration of at least the first period.

The present disclosure may be embodied in the form illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Attention is called to the fact however that the drawings are illustrative. Variations are contemplated as being part of the disclosure limited only by the scope of the claims. The above and other features aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood to one skilled in the art with reference to the following drawings detailed description and appended claims.

The present disclosure is now described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments of the present disclosure are shown. The present disclosure may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as necessarily being limited to the example embodiments set forth herein. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that the disclosure is thorough and complete and fully conveys the concepts of the present disclosure to those skilled in the art. Also features described with respect to certain example embodiments may be combined in and or with various other example embodiments. Different aspects and or elements of example embodiments as disclosed herein may be combined in a similar manner.

The terminology used herein can imply direct or indirect full or partial temporary or permanent action or inaction. For example when an element is referred to as being on connected or coupled to another element then the element can be directly on connected or coupled to the other element and or intervening elements may be present including indirect and or direct variants. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Although the terms first second and so forth may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not necessarily be limited by such terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another element component region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be necessarily limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises includes and or comprising including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the present disclosure. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus the example embodiments of the present disclosure should not be construed as necessarily limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing.

Any and or all elements as disclosed herein can be formed from a same structurally continuous piece such as being unitary and or be separately manufactured and or connected such as being an assembly and or modules. Any and or all elements as disclosed herein can be manufactured via any manufacturing processes whether additive manufacturing subtractive manufacturing and or other any other types of manufacturing. For example some manufacturing processes include three dimensional 3D printing laser cutting computer numerical control CNC routing milling pressing stamping vacuum forming hydroforming injection molding lithography and so forth.

Any and or all elements as disclosed herein can include whether partially and or fully a solid including a metal a mineral an amorphous material a ceramic a glass ceramic an organic solid such as wood and or a polymer such as rubber a composite material a semiconductor a nano material a biomaterial and or any combinations thereof. Any and or all elements as disclosed herein can include whether partially and or fully a coating including an informational coating such as ink an adhesive coating a melt adhesive coating such as vacuum seal and or heat seal a release coating such as tape liner a low surface energy coating an optical coating such as for tint color hue saturation tone shade transparency translucency non transparency luminescence anti reflection and or holographic a photo sensitive coating an electronic and or thermal property coating such as for passivity insulation resistance or conduction a magnetic coating a water resistant and or waterproof coating a scent coating antibacterial coating and or any combinations thereof. Any and or all elements as disclosed herein can be rigid flexible and or any other combinations thereof. Any and or all elements as disclosed herein can be identical and or different from each other in material shape size color and or any measurable dimension such as length width height depth area orientation perimeter volume breadth density temperature resistance and so forth.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure belongs. The terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and should not be interpreted in an idealized and or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

Furthermore relative terms such as below lower above and upper may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another element as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Such relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of illustrated technologies in addition to the orientation depicted in the accompanying drawings. For example if a device in the accompanying drawings is turned over then the elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. Therefore the example terms below and lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below.

Any and or all blocks of processes described herein can be performed whether via hardware logic and or software logic by and or on behalf of one and or more entities parties irrespective of their relationship to each other. Also any and or all blocks of processes described herein can be a part of a larger process irrespective of any relation to the contents of the present disclosure. For example various functions can be taking place before during and or after performance of at least one blocks of any of the processes described herein whether on a same or a different hardware. Alternatively any and or all blocks of processes described herein can be performed on their own as well whether on a same or a different hardware. Further any and or all blocks of processes described herein can be performed relatively contemporaneously and or non contemporaneously.

If any disclosures are incorporated herein by reference and such incorporated disclosures conflict in part and or in whole with the present disclosure then to the extent of conflict and or broader disclosure and or broader definition of terms the present disclosure controls. If such incorporated disclosures conflict in part and or in whole with one another then to the extent of conflict the later dated disclosure controls.

Section can include a tube a hose and so forth. Section is configured such that a fluid such as a liquid and or a gas can flow therethrough. Section can be in fluid communication with the hot water source.

Section can include a tube a hose and so forth. Section is configured such that a fluid such as a liquid and or a gas can flow therethrough. Section can be identical to and or different from section in any measurable dimension.

Section can include a tube a hose and so forth. Section is configured such that a fluid such as a liquid and or a gas can flow therethrough. Section can be identical and or different from section and or section in any measurable dimension.

System also includes a flow sensor in fluid communication with section and section such that sensor is fluidly between section and section . Sensor is operative for sensing a rate of fluid flow of fluid input thereinto. Sensor can include a vane which is pushable via the fluid. Sensor can further be operative for measuring a velocity of fluid flow. Sensor can be powered via a power source such as mains electricity a battery a gas generator a renewable energy source and so forth. Sensor also be non powered as well. Sensor can be analog and or digital based.

System further includes a booster pump in fluid communication with section and section such that pump is fluidly between section and section . Pump is operative for boosting fluid pressure of fluid input from section and outputting the boosted fluid to segment . Pump is powered via a power source such as mains electricity a battery a gas generator a renewable energy source and so forth. Pump and sensor can be powered via an identical and or a different power source. Pump can be analog and or digital based. In another example embodiment sensor and pump are combined as one operational unit.

System moreover includes a controller and a relay . Controller is coupled to sensor via a connection which can be wired and or wireless encrypted and or unencrypted direct and or indirect local and or remote. Relay is coupled to pump via a connection which can be wired and or wireless encrypted and or unencrypted direct and or indirect local and or remote. Connection and connection can be identical to and or different from each other in any manner. Controller and relay are coupled to each other whether via wired and or wireless manner encrypted and or unencrypted manner direct and or indirect manner local and or remote manner.

In another example embodiment controller is coupled to pump with and or without relay whether with and or without connection . In yet another example embodiment relay is lacking. In yet still another example embodiment pump and relay are combined as one operational unit. In yet still another example embodiment controller and relay are combined as one operational unit. In additional another example embodiment sensor and controller are combined as one operational unit. In yet still another additional example embodiment sensor and relay are combined as one operational unit. In still yet another example embodiment pump and controller are combined as one operational unit.

Controller is powered via a power source such as mains electricity a battery a gas generator a renewable energy source and so forth. Controller receives fluid flow sensory information from sensor via connection . Controller can activate and or deactivate sensor via connection . Controller can communicate with sensor for other purposes as well via connection and or some other connection.

Relay includes an electrically operated switch. Alternatively relay can include a mechanically operated switch. Relay is operative to switch on pump via connection and switch off pump via connection . Relay can be electromagnet based. Relay can be a high current relay controller. Relay can be operated via controller .

Controller at least partially controls pump via connection . Controller can activate pump and deactivate pump via connection . Controller can receive data such as operational data from pump . Controller can communicate with pump for other purposes as well via connection and or some other connection.

Controller can be housed within a housing which can include plastic metal wood rubber and so forth. Controller can control at least pump based on hardware and or software. The housing can contain such logic for communicating with sensor and controlling pump . For example the logic can include at least one of a circuit a computer readable storage medium a processor a receiver a transmitter a transceiver a user input interface whether virtual and or non virtual based and so forth.

Controller is operative in one of a calibration mode and a control mode. Such modes are for operation of controller when coupled to sensor and pump . Such modes can be selected via a user such as a human an appliance and so forth at any time such as for initial calibration recalibration and so forth. Further such modes can be automatically alternated via controller when controller determines that calibration is needed based on a heuristic and or at least one criteria whether user input and or manufacturer preset. In some example embodiments controller runs in the calibration mode before the control mode.

In the calibration mode controller determines a resting flow rate via sensor and an in use flow rate via sensor . Such rates can be based on any measurement systems any time systems and so forth.

The resting rate is determined when pump avoids pumping water such as hot water from the hot water source and the plumbing fixture downstream from pump avoids drawing water such as hot water at least from pump . Resultantly the resting rate is determined for duration of a time period where the resting rate is a maximum flow sensed via sensor during that time period. The resting rate may be caused by gravity or environmental factors affecting system . The resting rate indicates that that the user is not drawing water such as hot water from system and pump is not pumping water such as hot water within system .

The in use rate is determined when pump pumps water such as hot water from the hot water source and the plumbing fixture downstream from pump draws water such as hot water pumped via pump . The in use rate is determined via the user operating the plumbing fixture downstream from pump for duration of a time period after determining the resting rate. The in use rate is a minimum flow sensed via sensor during that time period. Controller receives an indication from said the before determining that time period. Such receipt can be wired and or wireless encrypted and or unencrypted direct and or indirect local and or remote. The indication is indicative that a process for determining the in use rate is at least partially complete. The in use rate indicates that the user is drawing water such as hot water from system .

Controller determines a time period indicative of time for returning from at least the in use rate to the resting rate when pump avoids pumping water such as hot water from the hot water source and the plumbing fixture avoids drawing water such as hot water from system . The time to the rest rate is determined via controller controlling pump to pump water such as hot water from the hot water source for duration of a time period after determination of the in use rate. Such time period is sufficiently long to induce flow back to at least to the hot water source. Therefore the time to the rest rate corresponds to time as determined via controller for system flow rate as determined via sensor sensor to return to the resting rate. The time to the rest rate indicates time system to return to the rest rate after pump has been turned off. Note that the time to the rest rate can be determined via iteration such that flow variation within system is accounted for. In such iteration the time to the rest rate corresponds to a longest reading taken during the iteration via controller .

Controller receives an input from the user for a time period which is indicative of at least how long should pump pump hot water for from the hot water source when system detects demand such as from the user. Controller receipt of the input can be wired and or wireless encrypted and or unencrypted direct and or indirect local and or remote. In one example embodiment controller can contain a user interface such as a virtual interface a mechanical interface a network interface an application programming interface API and so forth configured for operation via the user. Therefore controller is operative for receiving the input via the interface from the user in the calibration mode. In another example embodiment controller can be configured to receive a wireless signal whether encrypted and or unencrypted direct and or indirect. Such signal can be from a mobile device such as a tablet computer a mobile phone a remote control device and so forth. Such signal can also be from a stationary device such as a desktop computer a computer terminal an appliance a control panel and so forth. Controller is operative for receiving the input via the signal in the calibration mode. In another example embodiment the mobile device and or the stationary device can allow for user selection of the modes of operation of controller such as switching between the calibration mode and the control mode.

In the control mode controller controls pump to pump water such as hot water from the hot water source for duration of the user input time period in at least partial response to sensing at least the in use rate via sensor . Controller controls pump to avoid pumping water such as hot water from the hot water source immediately after expiration of the user input time period for duration of at least the time to the rest rate. Note that in the control mode controller is configured for controlling pump via relay coupled to controller and pump .

In another example embodiment controller is started in the calibration mode after an extended idle period during which pump has not been running nor has water been drawn from the plumbing fixture.

In the calibration mode controller operates in four phases. In phase one the resting rate is determined. Such determination is made over a sufficient period of time where system records readings from sensor and sets the resting rate to the maximum flow reading recorded. In phase two the in use rate is determined where the user is instructed to go to every every plumbing fixture one at a time and turn the fixture on for a sufficient period of time. The user then indicates to controller that such process is complete. The in use rate is then set to the lowest interval reading above the resting rate. In phase three the time to the resting rate is determined via controller turning on pump on for a sufficient period of time to induce flow through system and then measure time for the flow rate to reach the resting rate. Controller may iterate steps more than once in order to eliminate natural variation and setting the time to the resting rate to the longest reading taken. In phase four controller receives user input corresponding to time to run pump .

In the control mode controller operates in four phases. In phase one controller data from sensor . In phase two when controller senses the flow rate reach or surpass the in use rate controller turns on the pump . In phase three controller waits for duration of time corresponding to the user input in phase four of the calibration mode. Upon expiration of such time controller turns off pump . In phase four controller waits for the time to rest rate then returns to phase one of the control mode. Resultantly pump is operated based at least in part on hot water demand which can be more efficient than predicting hot water usage or estimating time when hot water usage demand. Such operation can increase energy efficiency and or increase operational longevity of pump .

A system includes a hot water source which can be a boiler a hot water storage tank and so forth. Source is in fluid communication with section . Note that a plurality of sources can also be used within system whether identical to and or different from each other. Sources can be placed in any place within system whether downstream from pump and or upstream pump .

System also includes a plumbing fixture such as a faucet an appliance and so forth downstream from source . Fixture is in fluid communication with section . Note that a plurality of fixtures can also be used within system whether identical to and or different from each other. Fixtures can be placed in any place within system whether downstream from pump and or upstream pump . Also note that fixture can be operative to output just cold water and or output cold water mixed with hot water pumped via pump .

System further includes a fourth conduit section which is in fluid communication with fixture for recirculation hot water back to source . Section can include a tube a hose and so forth. Section is configured such that a fluid such as a liquid and or a gas can flow therethrough.

System additionally includes a fifth conduit section which can include a tube a hose and so forth. Section is configured such that a fluid such as a liquid and or a gas can flow therethrough. Section is in fluid communication with section and source . Section can be in fluid with another booster pump and or another hot water source.

A calibration mode process includes a plurality of blocks . Note that process can be performed in a different order than depicted. Further note that process can be performed via at least one entity.

Block entails setting usage time which corresponds to controller receiving the input from the user for the time period indicative of at least how long should pump pump hot water for from the hot water source when system detects demand such as from the user. Therefore controller sets the input as the usage time.

Controller receipt of the input can be wired and or wireless encrypted and or unencrypted direct and or indirect local and or remote. In one example embodiment controller can contain the user interface such as a virtual interface a mechanical interface a network interface an application programming interface API and so forth configured for operation via the user. Therefore controller is operative for receiving the input via the interface from the user in the calibration mode. In another example embodiment controller can be configured to receive a wireless signal whether encrypted and or unencrypted direct and or indirect. Such signal can be from a mobile device such as a tablet computer a mobile phone a remote control device and so forth. Such signal can also be from a stationary device such as a desktop computer a computer terminal an appliance a control panel and so forth. Controller is operative for receiving the input via the signal in the calibration mode. In another example embodiment the mobile device and or the stationary device can allow for user selection of the modes of operation of controller such as switching between the calibration mode and the control mode.

An operation mode process includes a plurality of blocks . Note that process can be performed in a different order than depicted. Further note that process can be performed via at least one entity.

Block entails activating pump via controller to pump water such as hot water from the hot water source for duration of the user input time period in at least partial response to sensing at least the in use rate via sensor .

Block entails controller controlling pump to avoid pumping water such as hot water from the hot water source immediately after expiration of the user input time period for duration of at least the time to the rest rate.

Return allows controller to repeat process more than once in order to eliminate natural variation and setting the time to the resting rate to the longest reading taken.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code and so forth or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium including but not limited to non transitory computer readable storage media . A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF and so forth or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. Other types of programming languages include HTML5 Flash and other similar languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present disclosure are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. Each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. Each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure the practical application thereof and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited at least to the particular use contemplated.

The flow diagrams depicted herein are just one example. There may be many variations to this diagram or the steps or operations described therein without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified. All of these variations are considered a part of the claimed disclosure.

The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be fully exhaustive and or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations in techniques and structures will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure as set forth in the claims that follow. Accordingly such modifications and variations are contemplated as being a part of the present disclosure. The scope of the present disclosure is defined by the claims which includes known equivalents and unforeseeable equivalents at the time of filing of the present disclosure.

