---

title: Mobile distributed memory systems
abstract: Data may be managed by a mobile data management system. The system may receive data intended for a web service system location at a first location from an external source located at a second location. In some aspects, the data may be received via an application programming interface. The system may also cause storage of the received data in at least one memory while the system is at the second location. The system may further provide the received data to the web service system while at the first location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09277352&OS=09277352&RS=09277352
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09277352
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130114
---
With the growth of cloud computing websites and other web services that manage user data have become ubiquitous. Such sites and or services may provide various ways for users to interact with otherwise provide the data to be managed. For example different upload download processing storage and or management options may be provided to the users. These sites and or services may also provide the ability for user s to manage uploading such data from multiple different locations and or device types. In some cases one or more application programming interface API method calls may be provided to facilitate the upload storage and or management of such user data. However providing such data management options especially for large amounts of data and or data collected at remote locations may pose challenges to the service providers and or the users.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to among other things providing techniques for managing user data within a mobile component of a distributed computing environment. In some examples the mobile component of the distributed computing environment may be housed within a vehicle e.g. an electric or hybrid automobile and may be fully integrated as part of a larger integrated distributed computing environment. Additionally the mobile component may be configured as its own self defined geographic location of distributed resources of the larger integrated distributed computing environment. For example the larger environment may be configured with distributed resources at different geographic locations e.g. North America Asia Europe etc. . The ability to rely on resources in different locations may enhance data security data redundancy and or network congestion concerns. As such the mobile component may provide the ability to have additional distributed resources of the distributed environment deployed or otherwise sent to locations where resources don t currently exist or where resources or scarce inadequate and or expected to be needed.

In some examples the mobile component may also be described as a mobile distributed memory system and or or a mobile distributed processing system. In either case or in both cases the mobile component may be configured to receive data uploaded by one or more users clients and or customers of the larger distributed computing environment or of a third party service provider that may purchase or otherwise request the use of one or more mobile components. By way of example only some mobile distributed memory systems may receive this user data as a parameter of or otherwise communicated by an application programming interface API method call performed or otherwise transmitted by the users. Additionally in some examples the API method calls may be based at least in part on the representational state transfer REST protocol or other appropriate web based protocols. Further the RESTful API calls or other type of API calls performed by the users may be provided or otherwise generated by the larger integrated distributed computing environment as opposed to the mobile system. In this way when a user performs one or more of the API calls to upload or otherwise manage the data being sent to the mobile system the user may think or otherwise intend for the data to be provided to the larger system. However in other examples the APIs may be generated and or provided by the mobile systems. As such the API may be specific to a web service or other distributed system accessible over the web. When a user utilizes the mobile system the user may communicate the data via the API of the web service or other distributed system. In other words the mobile system may act as the web service from the standpoint of communication with the user.

In some aspects a user or user computing device may perform an API call that may include e.g. as a parameter of the method the user data to be stored and or managed by the mobile system and or the larger distributed system. By this functionality the data may be uploaded to the mobile system. Additionally in some examples this data upload may occur at a remote location different than that of the larger distributed system and or at a location that is geographically remote from any public network connections e.g. the Internet . As such the user or user computing device may not be able to access the Internet or other network connection for uploading the data to the distributed computing system. Alternatively in other examples the user may have access to a network connection but the amount of data may be too large to utilize such network connections to upload the data. As such in some examples the user may interact with otherwise connect to the mobile system as if the mobile system were a live location of the larger distributed system even when the mobile system is not connected to a network other than that of the user . The data may be uploaded to the mobile system while at the remote location. The mobile system may then travel e.g. drive fly etc. to a second location where a public network connection may be available and or where a direct connection to the larger distributed system may be available. Once connected to the network the mobile system may sync or otherwise upload the data stored therein with the larger distributed computing system.

In some examples the networks and or the networks may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks. While the illustrated example represents the devices accessing the mobile computing system over the networks and or the networks the described techniques may equally apply in instances where the devices interact with the mobile computing system wirelessly using fiber optics or any other communication type or in any other manner. It is also noted that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements e.g. set top boxes etc. as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored applications etc. . Additionally in some examples the networks may be located and or accessible at different geographic locations and or via different connections that the networks . For example devices connected via the networks may not be directly or indirectly accessible to devices connected via the networks .

In some examples remote devices may include any user device at a physical location separate from that of the distributed computing devices . However in other examples the remote devices may be near or at the same location of the distributed computing devices but may be remote in that they are not connected to the networks and or the distributed computing devices . The remote devices may also be any type of computing devices such as but not limited to audio recording devices video recording devices mobile desktop thin client virtual and or cloud computing devices and or any other type of data collection or transmission device. For example the remote devices may include digital or other types of cameras e.g. on a movie production set . In one non limiting example the location of the movie production set may be located in the mountains at a remote location that is not near any network connectivity. Further some modern cameras may record data at extremely high rates and or using extremely high resolution. Thus the data associated with some film productions may be too large to upload utilizing traditional Internet connections. However the camera or other remote device associated with the camera may be configured to communicate with one or more web services or other distributed computing system for uploading the data. As such in some examples the remote devices may communicate with a mobile computing system to upload the movie data as if the remote device were actually connected to the web service or other cloud service via some direct or indirect network connection e.g. the Internet . For example a remote device may perform one or more RESTful API calls that cause camera data from the remote movie production set to be provided to the mobile computing system .

In some aspects the mobile computing system may be housed within a vehicle e.g. an electric or hybrid automobile and may include any type of computing devices such as but not limited to mobile desktop thin client virtual and or cloud computing devices. In some examples the mobile computing system may be in communication with the remote devices as noted above via the networks or via other network connections. The mobile computing system may include one or more computing resources perhaps arranged in a cluster as a server farm as individual servers not associated with one another or not as servers at all e.g. as virtual computing devices . These resources may be configured to perform the mobile distributed data management as part of an integrated distributed computing environment within the vehicle and or along with the other distributed computing devices e.g. once connected to the networks . Additionally the mobile computing system may include e.g. stored in memory and executable by one or more processors a mobile data management system that at least includes a network of computing resources that are collectively configured to operate the mobile data management as described herein. The mobile computing system may also include a propulsion device such as an electric motor or a combustion engine . In some aspects the combustion engine may be powered by gasoline natural gas or any other type of fuel. Additionally the propulsion device may be configured to provide power for powering the vehicle and or the mobile data management system . The mobile computing system may also be configured to provide data storage redundancy similar to that of the distributed computing devices . In this way if one storage device of the mobile computing system goes down or otherwise becomes inoperable a user s data is not lost as it will have already been backed up on another storage device of the mobile computing system .

More specifically in some examples the mobile data management system may be supported by a mobile data store one or more mobile processors and or an API endpoint module . As used herein modules may refer to programming modules executed by servers or clusters of servers that are part of a service. In this particular context the modules may be executed by the servers or clusters of servers that are part of the mobile data management system . The mobile data store may be configured to store or otherwise manage user data and or data received from the remote devices . For example the mobile data store may store or otherwise manage the movie data or other data being collected or previously collected by the remote devices e.g. under sea seismic analysis data datacenter migration data or the like . In some examples the mobile processors may include any number and or type of computing processors machine instances or the like that may be configured to perform instructions for implementing the mobile data management system . Additionally the mobile processors may be configured to manage the receipt of the user data from the remote devices and or cause storage of the user data in the mobile data store . Further in some examples the API endpoint module may be configured to manage remotely called APIs e.g. those performed by the remote devices or other devices such as but not limited to the user devices and or the distributed computing devices . The API endpoint may also be configured to cause the processors to perform data receipt data storage and or data providing based at least in part on the remotely called APIs e.g. without the remote devices utilizing Internet Protocol addresses .

In one non limiting example the mobile computing system may be configured to receive user data from the remote devices or other devices at a first location e.g. the remote film product set or the like . The mobile computing system may then be configured to travel e.g. to drive to a second location. The mobile computing system may be driven by a driver may be configured with a remote control system and or may automatically e.g. without a driver and without a user operating a remote controller travel to the second location. In some cases the second location may be a location where network connectivity is available e.g. a location with wired or wireless access to the networks . Additionally the second location may be a colocation facility physically coupled with the distributed computing devices or other service provider computers e.g. via a private connection a wired connection or the like . Once the mobile computing system has traveled to the second location the mobile computing system may be configured to upload the user data stored in the mobile data store to one or more computing devices. For example the user data may be provided to the distributed computing devices to another user device and or to a network storage device e.g. associated with the distributed computing devices . In this way the user data may be able to backed up or otherwise stored at the network storage or other storage devices associated with the distributed computing devices even when the user and or remote computers are collecting data in locations without network connectivity. Additionally in some examples the mobile computing system may be synced with other mobile systems or the like of the distribute computing devices as if the mobile computing system went down e.g. based at least in part on a power failure or other loss of operability and was now reconnecting to the integrated distributed system. Further the uploading of the user data and or the syncing of user data to the distributed computing devices may be accomplished by way of RESTful API calls made by the mobile computing system similar to those utilized by the remote computers .

In some examples the networks may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks. While the illustrated example represents the users accessing the mobile data management computers and or the service provider computers over the networks the described techniques may equally apply in instances where the users interact with mobile data management computers and or the service provider computers via the one or more user devices over a landline phone via a kiosk or in any other manner. It is also noted that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements e.g. set top boxes etc. as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored applications mobile applications etc. .

As described briefly above the service provider interface may allow the users to interact with the mobile data management computers and or the service provider computers such as to store access and or manage data of the users . The one or more service provider computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm may host the service provider interface . Other server architectures may also be used to host the service provider interface . The service provider interface may be capable of handling requests from many users and serving in response various user interfaces that can be rendered at the user devices . The service provider interface can access and or render any type of website that supports user interaction including social networking sites online retailers informational sites blog sites search engine sites news and entertainment sites and so forth. As discussed above the described techniques can similarly be implemented outside of the service provider interface such as with other applications running on the user devices .

As noted above the architecture may include one or more user devices . The user devices may be any type of computing device such as but not limited to a data collection device a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. In some examples the user devices may be in communication with the service provider computers and or the mobile data management computers via the networks or via other network connections.

In one illustrative configuration the user devices may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of user device the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The user device may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the service provider interface . The service provider interface may be configured to receive store and or display a website or other interface for interacting with the mobile data management computers and or the service provider computers . The service provider interface may also be configured to cause the user data to be provided to the mobile data management computers for temporary storage while the mobile data management computers are in transit. Additionally the memory may store access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords and or other user information. In some examples the user information may include information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like. In addition the user information may include a user provided response to a security question or a geographic location obtained by the user device .

In some examples the mobile data management computers may also be any type of computing devices such as but not limited to mobile desktop thin client and or cloud computing devices such as servers. In some examples the mobile data management computers may be housed within a vehicle e.g. an automobile a watercraft an aircraft or the like and may be in communication with the user devices and or the third party service provider computers via the networks or via other network connections. The mobile data management computers may include one or more servers perhaps arranged in a cluster as a server farm or as individual servers not associated with one another. These servers may be configured to host a website or combination of websites viewable via the user devices or a web browser or service provider interface accessible by a user . Additionally in some aspects the mobile data management computers may be configured to perform the mobile data management techniques described herein as part of an integrated distributed computing environment.

In one illustrative configuration the mobile data management computers may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of mobile data management computers the memory may be volatile such as RAM and or non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. . The mobile data management computers or servers may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as SRAM DRAM or ROM.

The memory the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The memory and the additional storage are all examples of computer storage media. Additional types of computer storage media that may be present in the mobile data management computers may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the mobile data management computers . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively computer readable communication media may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein computer readable storage media does not include computer readable communication media.

The mobile data management computers may also contain communications connection s that allow the mobile data management computers to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the networks . The mobile data management computers may also include I O device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and or one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including a mobile storage module a mobile compute module an API module a connection module and or a geolocation module . In some examples the mobile storage module may be configured to manage temporary storage of user data while the mobile data management computers are in transit to a second location. In some aspects the mobile compute module may be configured provide remote computing power e.g. machine instances or physical processors to the mobile data management computers e.g. for performing remote computation of the data managed by the mobile storage module . In this way the mobile data management computers may process or otherwise provide virtual processing to users that request cloud computing resources to process data at remote locations and or during conventions where multiple users may request local and or powerful data processing.

In some examples the API module may be configured to manage API method calls e.g. based at least in part on the REST protocol performed by the user devices and or the service provider computers . Additionally the API module may also be configured to receive data from the user devices based at least in part on the API method calls performed by the user devices . For example user data may be received as an attribute of one or more RESTful API method calls performed by the user devices . Additionally in some examples the connection module may be configured to manage network connections of the mobile data management computers . For example the connection module may be configured to determine which networks are available and when. Additionally the connection module may also be configured to connect to particular networks when in range or otherwise available. For example when the mobile data management computers physically connects to a port or other connection type of a colocation device or location associated with the one or more service provider computers the connection module may automatically establish a connection therewith. Further in some examples the geolocation module may be configured to store and or manage geolocation information associated with the mobile data management computers e.g. a geographic location of the vehicle or other device that houses the mobile data management computers . In some examples the geolocation information managed by the geolocation module may be utilized to determine what data to store when to provide the data to the service provider computers and or when to connect to which networks.

In some cases a user may request to upload or otherwise store data with the mobile data management computers . As such the user may perform one or more RESTful or other types of API calls that include the user data to be stored as an attribute of the API. As such even if the user devices are not connected to the Internet they may act as if they are with respect to the mobile data management computers . Upon receipt of this user data the mobile data management computers may store the user data e.g. utilizing the mobile storage module for a particular amount of time. In some cases the amount of time may be based at least in part on how long it takes to upload and or store all of the requested data and or how long it takes to travel to a second location e.g. where the service provider computers are physically accessible via a direct connection or via one or more network connections . The mobile data management computers may then travel to a second location and connect to one or more networks for accessing the service provider computers . The user data may then be provided to the service provider computers e.g. also utilizing RESTful or other API methods by the mobile data management computers .

Additionally in some examples a service provider or other entity may request to provide content to users that may not have Internet access and or may be congested in an area of incidence e.g. at a convention or technology fair . In this way the mobile data management computers may store the content provider data utilizing at least the mobile storage module and may be configured to provide such data to multiple different user devices e.g. the user devices directly e.g. via direct connection to the mobile data management computers as if the user devices were actually connected to the Internet or some other network. In this way large amounts of data and or high resolution data may be shared among a large number of users in a particular area with less security and or bandwidth issues.

A few additional examples of the operations of the mobile data management computers and or the service provider computers are also described in greater detail below with reference to .

As noted above the vehicles may house or otherwise be coupled with the mobile data management system . Additionally the mobile data management system may include a propulsion device such as but not limited to an electric motor and or an engine a power source e.g. a battery and or one or more computing resources e.g. the mobile data store and or the mobile processors of . In some aspects the vehicle may travel from a first location to a second location. The first location may or may not have network connection availability or than the ability to connect to the user devices . Once the vehicle arrives at the second location and or connects to a network accessible by the distributed computers the mobile data management system may be configured to upload and or sync the user data of the computing resources with the distributed computers . In some aspects the distributed computers may host or otherwise manage one or more web services e.g. a cloud environment or the like for storing managing and or processing user data on behalf of a user. Additionally the vehicle may also include cooling battery recharging capabilities API endpoint servers other power sources and or network interconnect gear. The mobile data management system may also be configured to support hundreds thousands or more simultaneous data writes. Further in some examples the vehicles may be utilized to aid in congestion control and or load balancing by driving to locations that are experiencing high congestion and or balancing issues. When the vehicle arrives at the new location it may be automatically and almost immediately implemented as a new set of distributed resources in that location. Further the vehicles may also be utilized to mitigate potential disasters by driving to safer locations e.g. higher ground away from meteor impact zones etc. when disasters are predicted. Grid independent power and or relocation of the distributed computing resources to a location with a working Internet connection may also be realized by utilization of the vehicles . In some aspects a user may configure or pre configure e.g. using one or more templates the vehicles so that the vehicles arrive ready to perform particular tasks or able to perform particular types of tasks. For example the user may pre configure a vehicle that includes five hosts to have three hosts set for storage and two hosts set for processing e.g. as machine images .

Additionally in some examples the distributed computers and or a service provider e.g. a web service or group of web services associated with the distributed computers may charge users of the user devices for utilizing the mobile data management system and or a vehicle that includes a mobile data management system . For example a fee may be charged for leasing or buying the vehicle e.g. including delivery paying for a driver paying for gas paying for miles driven etc. and or for utilizing the mobile data management system e.g. based at least in part on actual usage or expected usage based at least in part on an amount of data being stored or to be stored and or based at least in part on an amount of throughput or bandwidth needed to receive the data . In some cases a flat fee may be charged for establishing a network connection with the vehicle and or with the distributed computers . There may be hourly rates associated with uploading downloading importing and or exporting rates and or amounts of data as well as hourly rates associated with possession including transit time in some examples of the vehicle . Hourly rates may also apply to services associated with the mobile data management system including but not limited to a driver a service technician a service team connection hardware etc.

Additionally some any or all of the processes may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. As noted above the code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

In some examples the mobile data management system shown in may perform the process of . The process may begin by including disconnection of a mobile data center from a network connection of a destination computing system at a first location at . In some examples the destination computing system may be a web service or other service provider. Additionally the first location may be any location where the web service or destination computing system is accessible via one or more network connections and may not be limited to the physical location of the computers associated with the system itself. At the process may include receiving data from a source computing device external to the mobile data center. The data may be communicated to the mobile data center via an API of the destination computing system. Additionally in some examples the API may be generated and or provided by the destination computing system. At the process may include storing the data in the mobile data center until a connection to a network at the first location is available. The process may also include establishing a connection at the first location at . In some examples the process may end at by including providing the data to the destination computing device after the connection is established.

Illustrative methods and systems for implementing dynamic network mirroring are described above. Some or all of these systems and methods may but need not be implemented at least partially by architectures and processes such as those shown at least in above.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and or retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as RAM or ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

