---

title: Social badging for electronification of paper
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to systems, methods and computer program products for social badging. An exemplary apparatus is configured to: receive information associated with a user's interaction with an entity; determine or receive a rating based on the interaction, wherein the rating indicates an environmental impact of the interaction; and broadcast the rating on a social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374430&OS=09374430&RS=09374430
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09374430
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130419
---
There is a need for a trusted platform for aggregating and analyzing consumption data emission data or other carbon credit type data.

In some embodiments an apparatus is provided for social badging. The apparatus comprises a memory a processor and a module stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to receive information associated with a user s interaction with an entity determine a rating based on the interaction wherein the rating indicates an environmental impact of the interaction and broadcast the rating on a social network. As used herein a rating may refer to a score a number of credits or debits a credit or debit amount or the like.

In some embodiments the interaction comprises selecting an option to switch from paper based notification to electronic notification.

In some embodiments the information associated with the user s interaction is received immediately after the interaction occurs or is received based on a predetermined schedule.

In some embodiments the information is received from the entity and wherein the entity obtains permission from the user to transmit the information.

In some embodiments the module is configured to receive a formula based on which the rating is determined.

In some embodiments the module is further configured to determine based on the user s rating a rating for a group on the social network.

In some embodiments the module is further configured to enable the user to determine a group to which the user s rating is pledged.

In some embodiments the module is configured to update progress towards a user defined goal based on the rating wherein a representation of the progress is broadcasted on the social network.

In some embodiments the module enables a comparison of ratings associated with multiple users or groups on the social network.

In some embodiments the module enables the user create a campaign to achieve a particular rating in a particular period.

In some embodiments a method is provided for social badging. The method comprises receiving information associated with a user s interaction with an entity determining a rating based on the interaction wherein the rating indicates an environmental impact of the interaction and broadcasting the rating on a social network.

In some embodiments a computer program product is provided for social badging. The computer program product comprises a non transitory computer readable medium comprising a set of codes for causing a computer to receive information associated with a user s interaction with an entity determine a rating based on the interaction wherein the rating indicates an environmental impact of the interaction and broadcast the rating on a social network.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to systems methods and computer program products for social badging. As used herein social badging refers to the process of determining carbon credit type data e.g. consumption data emission data or the like associated with a user and sharing publishing carbon credit type data associated with the user. The invention enables a social network to receive carbon credit type data associated with a user from an entity that interacted with a user. As described herein an interaction between the user and an entity may comprise an action performed by the user or an action not performed by the user i.e. an inaction . The interaction may be communicated to the social network immediately after e.g. in real time the interaction occurs or based on a predetermined schedule e.g. daily weekly or the like . In some embodiments the interaction may be communicated by the user to the social network however the social network may subsequently contact the entity associated with the interaction to verify the occurrence and or details of the interaction. In other embodiments the user s self reported interactions may not be verified. As used an interaction and an action may be used interchangeably.

A user may perform an action or an inaction that leads to the consumption of a consumable or an emission of a greenhouse gas. As used herein a carbon credit is a generic term that represents a right to emit a predetermined amount of gas e.g. greenhouse gas such as carbon dioxide and or liquid and or solid e.g. particulate matter . Alternatively a carbon credit or just a credit may refer to the right to consume a predetermined amount of a consumable. The credit may represent a form of currency. The consumption of a consumable may or may not lead to the emission of a gas a liquid or a solid as described herein. In some embodiments consumption as described herein may comprise both consumption and emission. In some embodiments emission as described herein may comprise both emission and consumption. An action as described herein may refer to a purchase or non purchase. Examples of actions include commuting by a bus rather than a car to work buying a car with a superior carbon footprint signing up for electronic statements asking for groceries to be placed in paper bags as opposed to plastic bags receiving an electronic receipt rather than a paper receipt after making a purchase at a store or the like.

As described herein the entity may prompt a user to grant permission to the entity to report the user s action and or other information associated with the user s action such as the credits to the social network either prior to during or after the action is completed. Therefore either prior to during or after the action is completed the user shares the user s social network identification information with the entity. Either prior to during or after the user s action i.e. interaction with the entity is completed the entity transmits details associated with the user s interaction to the social network along with the user s social network identification information. The social network then uses the user s social network identification information to broadcast a rating e.g. a credit amount associated with the user s interaction and optionally broadcasts details associated with the user s action based on whether the user chooses to broadcast such information.

As an example a user who has an account at a financial institution may select an option on the user s account to switch from paper based statements or paper based notification to electronic statements or electronic notification . The user may provide permission for the entity to communicate information associated with the user s action to the social network. For example the information may comprises a credit amount e.g. a carbon credit amount associated with the user s action. In some embodiments the entity predetermines a credit amount associated with a particular action. For example the entity has a database that lists actions and credit amounts associated with each action. In other embodiments the entity dynamically determines a credit amount associated with a particular action either while the action is being completed or immediately after completion of the action. The credit amount may be based on at least one of the type of activity the duration of the activity the environmental impact of the activity or the like. In still other embodiments the information associated with the user s action is communicated to the social network and the social network determines a credit amount associated with a particular action.

The credit amount may be broadcasted on the social network to the user s connections e.g. to the user s friends family user selected groups demographic group geographic group or the like . The user may determine which connections or groups to which the credit amount is broadcasted. Additionally the credit amount may be used in determining a credit amount e.g. for a particular period for the group. For example the user s credit amount credits may be added to the credit amount for a group e.g. the user s geographical group . Additionally in some embodiments the social network may ensure that only a single group gets the benefit of the user s credit amount. Therefore the social network may ensure that the user s geographical group e.g. City X gets the credit amount but the user s employer group e.g. Employer X does not get the credit amount. In some embodiments the user decides which group gets the user s credit. Therefore the user may pledge the user s credits to a particular group to support a particular campaign associated with the particular group. The campaign may be a goal to earn a certain number of credits in a defined period. The user may or may not change which group gets the user s credit after the credit has been assigned to a particular group. In some embodiments multiple groups may get the benefit of the user s credit amount. Therefore in such embodiments the user s geographical group and employer group may both the get the benefit of the credit amount. The present invention enables segmentation of a population based on the credits earned by each group in a population. Therefore the information associated with credits of various groups may be used to determine which groups are more environmentally sensitive. As used herein a group may refer to a collection of users on the social network wherein the users in the group are invited to join the group or voluntarily join the group based on common characteristics or interests.

A user may pre register the user s social network identification information with an entity that reports information associated with the user s interaction with the entity. Therefore the entity transmits e.g. via an application programming interface to the social network the social network identification information associated with the user the nature of the interaction between the entity and the user along with other details of the interaction such as duration of interaction and optionally the credit amount based on the interaction. Additionally the entity may transmit to the social network the basis or formula based on which the credit amount was computed. In some embodiments the social network evaluates the basis or formula on which the credit amount is computed and determines whether to retain the entity s basis or formula or to apply the social network s own basis or formula to the user s interaction. Therefore in other embodiments the social network receives details of the interaction between the entity and the user and the social network itself determines the credit amount associated with the user s action.

The social network may allow a user or a group to define a goal. The goal may be part of a campaign. Users in the group may be encouraged to participate in the campaign and earn credits to achieve the goal. Any users that do not earn a predetermined credit amount by a predetermined deadline may be removed from the group. The goal may be to achieve a certain credit amount or number of credits in a certain period. The goal may be published on the user s social network page if the user chooses to make the goal available to the user s connections on the social network and or the user s groups. When the information described herein is communicated from the entity to the social network the social network may update the progress towards the goal. The progress may be updated immediately after the information is communicated to the social network or may be updated on a periodic basis e.g. daily weekly or the like . The goal and the progress towards the goal may be represented by text or by images. In some embodiments an entity or a social network may provide a reward to the user or the group if the goal is met.

In some embodiments a user may initiate a campaign or create a group and encourage the user s connections to participate in the user s campaign. As an example a user may set a condition that the user s connections need to go paperless e.g. switch from paper based notification to electronic notification on their financial institution accounts in order to join the user s campaign. In some embodiments the financial institution may set a goal to earn a certain number of credits as well in a predefined period of time. In order to achieve this goal the financial institution may encourage users to switch from paper based notification to electronic notification e.g. a note may be presented on each user s transaction history page to encourage the user to earn credits by going paperless . As used herein a financial institution may refer to any entity including an entity that may not be a financial institution. In some embodiments a user may receive additional credits when the user s connections join the user s campaign and contribute credits towards the user s campaign. In some embodiments a user may trade send and or receive the user s credits with the user s connections on the social network.

In some embodiments instead of a credit amount a debit amount may alternatively be reported by the entity if the user s action incurs a debit e.g. harm to the environment rather than a credit. Alternatively in embodiments where the social network determines whether the user incurs a debit or a credit the debit amount is determined by the social network based on information received from the entity. As used herein any features of the invention with respect to credit amounts are also applicable to debit amounts. Therefore any processes that are used to compute credit amounts may also be used to compute debit amounts. As an example if a user purchases a new car that has an inferior carbon footprint compared to the user s previous car this action may result in a debit amount. As another example if a user reverts to paper statements from electronic statements this action may result in a debit amount.

In some embodiments a financial institution may analyze the user s transaction history and compute a credit amount. The transaction history may be associated with transactions executed by the user during a predetermined period. The transactions may be executed across multiple accounts e.g. credit accounts debit accounts gift card accounts prepaid card accounts or the like. If the user has previously granted permission to the financial institution associated with the user s account the financial institution may communicate information e.g. actions or inactions associated with the user s transactions and a credit amount associated with the information to the social network.

Referring now to a general process flow is provided for social badging. At block the method comprises receiving information associated with a user s interaction with an entity. At block the method comprises determining or receiving a rating based on the interaction wherein the rating indicates an environmental impact of the interaction. At block the method comprises broadcasting the rating on a social network.

Referring now to presents an exemplary block diagram of the system environment for implementing any of the process flows described herein in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. As illustrated the system environment includes a network a system and a user input system . Also shown in is a user of the user input system . The user input system may be a mobile device e.g. a portable mobile communication device . The user may be a person e.g. a social networking user who uses the user input system to execute a user application e.g. a social networking application . The system may be the apparatus described herein that hosts or manages the social network and the user s social networking account described herein. The user application and or the system application may incorporate one or more parts of the process flow or any other function described herein. The user may use the user input system to perform one or functions as described herein.

As shown in the system and the user input system are each operatively and selectively connected to the network which may include one or more separate networks. In addition the network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and or a global area network GAN such as the Internet. The network may also include a mobile telecommunication network. It will also be understood that the network may be secure and or unsecure and may also include wireless and or wireline and or optical interconnection technology.

The user input system may include any computerized apparatus that can be configured to perform any one or more of the functions of the user input system described and or contemplated herein. For example the user may use the user input system to transmit and or receive information or commands to and from the system . In some embodiments for example the user input system may include a personal computer system a mobile computing device a personal digital assistant a mobile phone a network device and or the like. As illustrated in in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the user input system includes a communication interface a processor a memory having an user application stored therein and a user interface . In such embodiments the communication interface is operatively and selectively connected to the processor which is operatively and selectively connected to the user interface and the memory . In some embodiments the user may use the user application to execute processes described with respect to the process flows described herein.

Each communication interface described herein including the communication interface generally includes hardware and in some instances software that enables the user input system to transport send receive and or otherwise communicate information to and or from the communication interface of one or more other systems on the network . For example the communication interface of the user input system may include a wireless transceiver modem server electrical connection and or other electronic device that operatively connects the user input system to another system such as the system . The wireless transceiver may include a radio circuit to enable wireless transmission and reception of information.

Each processor described herein including the processor generally includes circuitry for implementing the audio visual and or logic functions of the user input system . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the system in which the processor resides may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor may also include functionality to operate one or more software programs based at least partially on computer executable program code portions thereof which may be stored for example in a memory device such as in the user application of the memory of the user input system .

Each memory device described herein including the memory for storing the user application and other information may include any computer readable medium. For example memory may include volatile memory such as volatile random access memory RAM having a cache area for the temporary storage of information. Memory may also include non volatile memory which may be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an EEPROM flash memory and or the like. The memory may store any one or more of pieces of information and data used by the system in which it resides to implement the functions of that system.

As shown in the memory includes the user application . In some embodiments the user application includes an interface for communicating with navigating controlling configuring and or using the user input system . In some embodiments the user application includes computer executable program code portions for instructing the processor to perform one or more of the functions of the user application described and or contemplated herein. In some embodiments the user application may include and or use one or more network and or system communication protocols.

Also shown in is the user interface . In some embodiments the user interface includes one or more output devices such as a display and or speaker for presenting information to the user . In some embodiments the user interface includes one or more input devices such as one or more buttons keys dials levers directional pads joysticks accelerometers controllers microphones touchpads touchscreens haptic interfaces microphones scanners motion detectors cameras and or the like for receiving information from the user . In some embodiments the user interface includes the input and display devices of a mobile device which are operable to receive and display information.

It will be understood that the system application may be configured to implement any one or more portions of the various user interfaces and or process flow described herein. The system application may interact with the user application . It will also be understood that in some embodiments the memory includes other applications. It will also be understood that in some embodiments the system application is configured to communicate with the datastore the user input system or the like.

It will be further understood that in some embodiments the system application includes computer executable program code portions for instructing the processor to perform any one or more of the functions of the system application described and or contemplated herein. In some embodiments the system application may include and or use one or more network and or system communication protocols.

In addition to the system application the memory also includes the datastore . As used herein the datastore may be one or more distinct and or remote datastores. In some embodiments the datastore is not located within the system and is instead located remotely from the system. In some embodiments the datastore stores information or data described herein.

It will be understood that the datastore may include any one or more storage devices including but not limited to datastores databases and or any of the other storage devices typically associated with a computer system. It will also be understood that the datastore may store information in any known way such as for example by using one or more computer codes and or languages alphanumeric character strings data sets figures tables charts links documents and or the like. Further in some embodiments the datastore may include information associated with one or more applications such as for example the system application . It will also be understood that in some embodiments the datastore provides a substantially real time representation of the information stored therein so that for example when the processor accesses the datastore the information stored therein is current or substantially current.

It will be understood that the embodiment of the system environment illustrated in is exemplary and that other embodiments may vary. As another example in some embodiments the system includes more less or different components. As another example in some embodiments some or all of the portions of the system environment may be combined into a single portion. Likewise in some embodiments some or all of the portions of the system may be separated into two or more distinct portions.

In addition the various portions of the system environment may be maintained for and or by the same or separate parties. It will also be understood that the system may include and or implement any embodiment of the present invention described and or contemplated herein. For example in some embodiments the system is configured to implement any one or more of the embodiments of any process flow described herein. Additionally the system is configured to initiate presentation of any of the user interfaces described herein.

Referring now to presents an exemplary user interface associated with a user s social networking account. When the user logs into the user s social networking account the user may view the user s badge on the user s profile. The badge may be a pictorial representation e.g. gold silver bronze or the like associated with the user s credits. Alternatively the badge may comprise a number of pages suppressed carbon emissions prevented credits earned or the like. When the user selects the badge the user may be transported to another user interface associated with the user s social networking account.

Referring now to presents an exemplary user interface associated with a user s social networking account. In this user interface the user is presented with a tab indicating the number of credits earned e.g. for a period of time and the actions associated with the credits. The user may select the button adjacent to the Actions label to view a list of actions credits or debits associated with each action e.g. going paperless and other details associated with each action e.g. entity associated with action date of action or the like . As described previously the credits associated with an action may be determined based on the number of pages saved by the user. The user is also presented with a tab for viewing the user s goal e.g. the number of credits to earn by a certain date and the number of credits remaining to achieve the goal. The user is also presented with a tab for viewing a group s goal and the number of credits remaining for achieving the group s goal. The user may be part of the group and the user may pledge his or her credits to the group. The user may also select an option to change the group to which the user s credits are pledged or assigned. As used herein a group may also be referred to as a network.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term module with respect to a system may refer to a hardware component of the system a software component of the system or a component of the system that includes both hardware and software. As used herein a module may include one or more modules where each module may reside in separate pieces of hardware or software.

Although many embodiments of the present invention have just been described above the present invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Also it will be understood that where possible any of the advantages features functions devices and or operational aspects of any of the embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein may be included in any of the other embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein and or vice versa. In addition where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and or vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Accordingly the terms a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art in view of this disclosure the present invention may include and or be embodied as an apparatus including for example a system machine device computer program product and or the like as a method including for example a business method computer implemented process and or the like or as any combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely business method embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code stored procedures in a database or the like an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining business method software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having one or more computer executable program code portions stored therein. As used herein a processor which may include one or more processors may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the function by executing one or more computer executable program code portions embodied in a computer readable medium and or by having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

It will be understood that any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a tangible electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared and or semiconductor system device and or other apparatus. For example in some embodiments the non transitory computer readable medium includes a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and or some other tangible optical and or magnetic storage device. In other embodiments of the present invention however the computer readable medium may be transitory such as for example a propagation signal including computer executable program code portions embodied therein.

One or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of the present invention may include object oriented scripted and or unscripted programming languages such as for example Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS SQL Python Objective C JavaScript and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention are written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming languages and or similar programming languages. The computer program code may alternatively or additionally be written in one or more multi paradigm programming languages such as for example F .

Some embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of apparatus and or methods. It will be understood that each block included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by one or more computer executable program code portions. These one or more computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or some other programmable data processing apparatus in order to produce a particular machine such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute via the processor of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the steps and or functions represented by the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may be stored in a transitory and or non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory or the like that can direct instruct and or cause a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the computer executable program code portions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the steps and or functions specified in the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may also be loaded onto a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer and or other programmable apparatus. In some embodiments this produces a computer implemented process such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute on the computer and or other programmable apparatus provide operational steps to implement the steps specified in the flowchart s and or the functions specified in the block diagram block s . Alternatively computer implemented steps may be combined with and or replaced with operator and or human implemented steps in order to carry out an embodiment of the present invention.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations modifications and combinations of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

