---

title: Multi-antenna receiver in a radio controlled clock
abstract: A novel and useful multi-antenna receiver that receives, demodulates and decodes a broadcast signal, whose modulation and encoding of time and timing information allow for reliable and power-efficient operation. The multi-antenna receiver of the present invention is adapted to eliminate or substantially reduce the reception nulls that occur in receivers having a single antenna that is placed in a fixed position. Two or more antennas are employed whereby the receiver generates a combined signal based on a combination of the individual antenna signals or selects one of the antenna signals for input to the receiver based on desired criteria such as signal-to-noise-and-interference-ratio (SNIR). This results in greater robustness of the communication link by reducing or eliminating reception nulls and by rejecting interference through the selection of the antenna for which the signal-to-interference ratio is higher. The invention includes various antenna configurations that are adapted to reuse a single core for multiple antennas or to otherwise reduce size and/or cost.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08693582&OS=08693582&RS=08693582
owner: XW LLC
number: 08693582
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130211
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 606 758 filed Mar. 5 2012 entitled Multi Antenna Receiver and Method of Operation Thereof for a Radio Controlled Clock incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under National Institute of Standards and Technology under SBIR Grant No. NB401000 11 04154. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the field of wireless communications and more particularly relates to a multi antenna receiver for use in a radio controlled clock receiver.

Radio controlled clock RCC devices that rely on time signal broadcasts have become widely used in recent years. A radio controlled clock RCC is a timekeeping device that provides the user with accurate timing information that is derived from a received signal which is broadcast from a central location to allow multiple users to be aligned or synchronized in time. Colloquially these are often referred to as atomic clocks due to the nature of the source used to derive the timing at the broadcasting side. In the United States the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST provides such broadcast in the form of a low frequency 60 kHz digitally modulated signal that is transmitted at high power from radio station WWVB in Fort Collins Colo. The information encoded in this broadcast includes the official time of the United States.

Similar services operating at low frequencies exist in other regions worldwide including Germany and Japan. Many consumer market products exist including watches alarm clocks and wall clocks that are capable of receiving one or more of these broadcasts and which can display the correct time to within approximately one or two seconds of accuracy. While the broadcast may be active continuously a typical radio controlled clock may be set to receive the broadcast only once a day. Such reception if successful depending on the condition of the wireless link and potential interference is typically used to reset the timekeeping device such that if it were set incorrectly or has drifted away from the correct time it will be set in accordance to the time communicated through the broadcast signal.

Reception of the time signal however is being challenged by a growing number of sources of electromagnetic interference. In particular the on frequency interference from the MSF radio station in the United Kingdom has been identified as a particularly challenging jammer for receivers on the East Coast.

The frequency of operation of WWVB is 60 kHz for which the receiving antenna is typically an inductor based on a ferrite rod. The ferrite rod antenna structure being based on multiple loops wrapped around the ferrite core offers maximal signal pick up when the rod is placed in the magnetic field such that flux flows through the rod allowing current to be induced into the loops in accordance with Faraday s law of induction.

When the rod is tilted i.e. placed off axis with respect to the direction of the magnetic flux however a loss whose magnitude corresponds to cos is experienced where represents the angle by which the rod deviates from the optimal direction. The optimal orientation is when the rod is oriented broadside with respect to the transmitter since a vertical radiating element is used for the broadcast antenna in Fort Collins which results in vertical polarization.

It is noted that when the antenna s orientation is perpendicular to the optimal orientation a null is experienced for which theoretically the magnitude of the signal induced in the antenna would be zero. This results in a total loss of reception.

Many users of radio controlled clocks are not aware of the antenna in their products and or not aware of the antenna s orientation and its significance and consequently do not orient them in the optimal direction. Thus significant losses might be experienced that could result in loss of reception.

Statistical analysis based on the known probability density function PDF of the cosine function shows that these losses may exceed 15 dB with a probability of 11 which means that one out of nine users experiences losses higher than 15 dB when assuming uniformly distributed angles of orientation amongst the many users.

There is thus a need for an improved antenna scheme for reception of time signal broadcasts such as that provided by WWVB in the United States and radio stations in other countries that cost effectively addresses the above outlined reception challenges.

The present invention offers a novel and useful solution to the problem of antenna directionality in radio controlled clock RCC receivers where the commonly used antennas are based on a loop structure having an antenna pattern in the shape of the number 8 with nulls in two opposite directions. If the broadcast is received from either of these directions great losses may be experienced which the present invention overcomes by introducing at least one more antenna that offers sufficient gain in the direction of those nulls.

Various embodiments of the invention include different antenna structures including a printed antenna an air core antenna and structures wherein a common ferrite core is shared amongst multiple windings that represent multiple antennas that are positioned substantially perpendicularly to each other.

Additionally in one embodiment of the invention capacitors that represent part of the resonant circuit that is designed to resonate with the antennas inductances are embedded within the common core such that they would not need to be added to the antenna on the printed circuit board PCB or within the receiver IC.

The present invention includes a novel receiver structure having multiple antennas as well as a reception method for ensuring acceptable reception quality wherein a signal from a preferred antenna is selected or a combination of signals from multiple antennas is used.

There is therefore provided in accordance with the invention a radio receiver comprising a plurality of antennas each adapted to receive a broadcast signal and generate an antenna signal therefrom antenna signal combining means operative to generate an antenna output signal from said plurality of antenna signals and a receiver circuit operative to receive said antenna output signal comprising a pulse width modulation PWM amplitude shift keyed ASK time code broadcast signal.

There is also provided in accordance with the invention a radio receiver method said method comprising providing a plurality of substantially orthogonally positioned antennas each antenna adapted to receive the same broadcast signal and generate an antenna signal therefrom generating a combined antenna output signal from said plurality of antenna signals receiving said antenna output signal comprising a pulse width modulation PWM amplitude modulated time code broadcast signal encoded which may be additionally modulated with time information frames and extracting said time code or said time information frames from said received signal.

There is also provided in accordance with the invention a radio receiver comprising a first antenna adapted to receive a broadcast signal a second antenna adapted to receive said broadcast signal said second antenna oriented substantially orthogonal to said first antenna a receiver circuit operative to receive a signal from said first antenna and said second antenna comprising a broadcast signal encoded with time information frames and a frame extractor operative to extract said time information frames from said received signal.

The system and method of the present invention is a multi antenna receiver that receives demodulates and decodes a broadcast signal whose modulation and encoding of time and timing information allow for reliable and power efficient operation. The multi antenna receiver of the present invention is adapted to eliminate or substantially reduce the reception nulls that otherwise would occur due to the fixed position of a receiver device. The advantages include insensitivity to the orientation at which a device is positioned and consequently the flexibility to position RCC devices at any orientation convenient to the user without compromising performance. In stationary devices such as microwave ovens and wall clocks there may not be any flexibility in positioning the device for optimal reception as its location and position may be dictated by other practical considerations associated with its normal use. The invention thus allows for greater reliability in providing the correct time in RCC applications and reduced energy consumption associated with the more efficient extraction of the received signal from the antenna where it is received at higher SNIR resulting in extended battery life in battery operated devices.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention only phase modulation is added to the carrier thus allowing existing devices that operate in accordance with the legacy communication protocol and rely on envelope detection based AM demodulation to continue to operate with the modified protocol without being affected. Although this backward compatibility property of the communication protocol of the present invention may represent a practical need when upgrading an existing system the scope of the invention is not limited to the use of this combined modulation scheme and to operation in conjunction with an existing communication protocol.

Legacy receivers are typically adapted to receive the legacy pulse width modulated amplitude modulation through relatively simple envelope detection which is unaffected by the phase modulation of the present invention. This is because there are no phase transitions introduced during the high amplitude portion pulses which could result in bandwidth expansion and consequently in reduced power passing through the narrowband filtering used in these receivers.

The enhanced robustness offered by the present invention is a result of the use of multiple receive antennas that serve to alleviate the reception losses experienced in single antenna devices due to sub optimum antenna orientation. Furthermore the present invention increases the likelihood that an RCC device based on it can avoid an interfering signal that may be stronger in one antenna than in another. If for example an interfering signal arrives from a direction to which one antenna is oriented while a second antenna substantially perpendicular to the first presents a null in that direction then it is beneficial to receive the broadcast through the second antenna even if it is slightly weaker there in order to avoid the strong interferer and present the receiver input with a higher SNIR.

The time information recovered from the signal received through the antenna is typically used in a radio controlled clock RCC device to either initialize or track the time in the application based on the RCC. Note that this information at least initially may be made available to the application from sources other than the broadcast such as through factory setting manual setting by the user or some form of conveying the time to the application either wirelessly or through a physical connection that alleviates the need to receive this information from the broadcast signal. Such means for initializing the time in the application are particularly beneficial in scenarios where the reception of the broadcast may be marginal and the recovery of such information from it may be difficult whereas time tracking based on correlating against the known synchronization word in the frame is possible even at much lower SNIR values.

Note that an RCC receiver incorporating the system and methods of the present invention may be implemented in any type of timekeeping device. The timekeeping device may comprise a watch an alarm clock a wall clock a utility meter a microwave oven a car radio that can display the time a timekeeping device that acquires its initial timing sets its time based on the reception of a phase modulated data frame and a device that acquires its initial timing i.e. sets its time based on the reception of an amplitude modulated data frame of the type used by broadcast stations such as DCF77 in Germany.

A high level block diagram illustrating an example timing and time information transmitter system operating in accordance with the present invention is shown in . The equipment at the transmitter end generally referenced comprises a high accuracy clock source frequency source from which a clock signal timing information is derived a time code generator having user interface a source of time data a transmitter generating a TX signal and coupled to transmitting antenna .

The time code generator keeps track of time based on the high accuracy frequency source input to it from source constructs the frames of data representing the time information received from time data source and other information that is to be transmitted modulates the data frames onto the RF carrier in accordance to a defined protocol and allows time initialization and other controls to be set in it through its user interface . The transmitter amplifies the modulated signal to generate an output TX signal at the desired levels e.g. 50 kW and drives the antenna that is used for the wide coverage omnidirectional broadcasting of the signal.

A high level block diagram illustrating an example timekeeping device comprising multiple antennas constructed in accordance with the present invention is shown in . Typically the timekeeping device is incorporated into low cost consumer market products but may be implemented in any device that requires a precision time reference. The timekeeping device generally referenced comprises a plurality of receiving antennas receiver module operative to receive RX signals processor and controller timekeeping function internal or external clock source display and user interface .

In one embodiment the timekeeping RCC device which may be based on phase or other types of modulation is fabricated using CMOS technology and may be incorporated into a larger SoC that could comprise functionality beyond that of the RCC and timekeeping functions.

In one embodiment a selection criterion is applied and one of the signals received from one of the multiple antennas is selected for input to the receiver module. Alternatively the multiple antenna signals are combined using well known signal processing techniques to generate a single received signal that is input to the receiver. In operation the receiver module extracts timing and time information from the one or more received signals in accordance with the modulation scheme and protocol in use and provides the processing and control function with the extracted timing and time information. Controller function processor appropriately enables disables the operation of the receiver module through control line such that it is limited to the intervals of interest to minimize energy consumption in those applications where it may be critical to do so e.g. wrist watches . The processor controller and or the receiver module functions to determine the selection or combination of antenna signals for input to the receiver module. The timekeeping function keeps track of the time based on pulses provided by clock source having limited accuracy. Note that the clock source may comprise any suitable clock source or clock signal such as a crystal oscillator and may be provided internal to the timekeeping device or supplied from a source external to the timekeeping device.

The timekeeping may be adjusted by the processor controller in accordance with an estimated drift at a specific instant which is either measured or calculated or a combination of the two. The display function may be used to display the time as well as various indications to the user including reception quality the selected antenna estimated bound for error in displayed time battery status etc. The user interface function based on pushbuttons slide switches a touch screen keypad computer interface a combination therefrom or any other form of human interface may be used to set the initial time define the maximal allowed timing error the time zone according to which time is to be calculated the use of daylight saving time etc.

In one embodiment of the invention the timekeeping device is operative to extract timing and time information conveyed in a broadcast signal. Timing information denotes information related to synchronization and tracking and is also used for bit and frame synchronization. Time information denotes information related to the current time being communicated such as the date and the time of day hours and minutes as well as scheduled events such as an upcoming DST transition leap second etc.

Typical currently available time broadcast signals employ some form of amplitude modulation combined with some form of pulse width modulation PWM to send binary data bits. As an example consider the WWVB signal broadcast from Fort Collins Colo. in the United States of America. The WWVB signal comprises a 60 second frame consisting of 60 bits. Each bit of one second duration is sent as a pulse width modulated signal wherein the carrier is transmitted at a low amplitude or a high amplitude for different portions of the bit. The frame also consists of several marker bits spread out evenly through the frame which serve only to indicate timing and do not convey time information. The legacy WWVB system transmitted a pulse width modulated amplitude shift keyed waveform on a 60 kHz carrier in which the one second duration 0 and 1 symbols were represented by a power reduction of 17 dB at the start of the second for 0.2 s and 0.5 s respectively. This broadcast signal has been enhanced to include phase modulation that is combined with the AM PWM modulation to allow for a more robust communications link.

The present invention may be utilized in a RCC operating in accordance with the legacy type of modulation i.e. without phase modulation and may also comprise a digital phase modulation PM receiver operative to perform phase demodulation on a signal that comprises both phase modulation and amplitude modulation such as the enhanced WWVB signal currently being broadcast. The low level may be zero thus reducing the amplitude modulation to on off keying OOK . The symbol time may be one second and the low level portion of the transmitted symbol is its first 0.1 seconds 0.2 seconds 0.5 seconds or 0.8 seconds. The phase demodulation operation may be limited to a fixed portion of the symbol that is expected to have the high amplitude. The fixed portion may be the second half of the symbol thus simplifying the receiver implementation. The duration of the portion of high amplitude may be predicted based on the knowledge of the exact time allowing the receiver to time its demodulation duration to the portion of the symbol that is of high amplitude thus maximizing the energy involved in the phase demodulation operation. Further the phase modulation may comprise for example binary phase shift keying BPSK minimum phase shift keying MSK phase reversal keying PRK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK and frequency shift keying FSK .

In one embodiment of the invention phase modulation is added to an amplitude modulated carrier. A diagram illustrating phase modulation added to an amplitude modulated carrier in an example communication protocol is shown in . This diagram describes the amplitude pulse width modulation PWM used in the historical WWVB broadcast as well as the phase modulation introduced in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The diagram shows the baseband representation of the 0 and 1 symbols in both the historical WWVB modulation and in one that is modified in accordance with an example embodiment of the present invention. It is noted that the enhancement in the communication protocol offered by the present invention in the form of independently defined phase modulation and the use of a known synchronization sequence is not limited to the broadcast of WWVB and may be applied to other timing time information broadcast systems such as those in other countries around the world where similar AM pulse width schemes are used or where no AM pulse width modulation needs to be supported allowing for continuous BPSK to be used. Note that the receiver may be operative to receive and decode any phase over amplitude modulated transmitted signal that has time synchronization and time information conveyed therein.

In one embodiment the additional phase modulation added to the signal is binary phase shift keying BPSK having an 180 difference in the carrier s phase between the 0 and 1 symbols also known as antipodal phase modulation or Phase Reversal Keying PRK . Hence the modulated waveforms representing these symbols may be expressed as the products of the sinusoidal 60 kHz carrier in the case of WWVB and the baseband waveforms s t x t waveform and s t x t waveform respectively as shown in . Waveform represents the original 1 symbol s t x t that is replaced by its inverse waveform in one example embodiment of the present invention. As is shown in the enhanced modulation scheme can be accomplished through simple sign inversion for the waveform representing the 1 symbol. It is noted that since the existing envelope detector based receivers designed to receive and decode the current WWVB AM PWM based broadcast signal do not consider the carrier s phase they are not impacted by the modification of phase inversion of the 1 symbol.

A diagram illustrating the signal space representation of AM only and PM over AM 0 and 1 symbols is shown in . As shown in the diagram the new pair of waveforms x referenced and x referenced having the same amount of energy corresponding to their distances from origin exhibit a much greater distance between the 0 and 1 symbols as compared to waveform pair xand x referenced thereby allowing for more robust reception in the presence of additive noise. Note that the existing symbols xand xare strongly correlated i.e. they have a very short distance between them in the signal space with respect to their energies.

The Euclidean distance between the two amplitude modulated waveforms xand xis shown to be 0.47 whereas the Euclidean distance for the two phase modulated waveforms xand xincreases to 1.55. Therefore the modulation gain denoted m representing the power ratio by which the detection capability in the presence of additive noise is improved is given by

Thus by simply adding such phase modulation an order of magnitude of improvement may be achieved when assuming additive white Gaussian noise AWGN . This analysis implicitly assumes that the receivers for both schemes would be optimal i.e. based on correlation or matched filtering. In practice the BPSK receiver may be implemented digitally in a near optimal fashion whereas the receivers for the existing AM pulse width scheme found in consumer market products not designed as a classical digital communications system are based on envelope detection as previously noted. This adds an additional gap of 2 to 4 dB between the two when only AWGN is considered. In the presence of on frequency interference however the gain offered by realizing a near optimal BPSK receiver may be arbitrarily higher. Furthermore additional gains can be offered such as 1 through encoding of the information and 2 use of a known synchronization sequence.

In an embodiment of the present invention the information represented by the phase modulation in each bit is independent from that represented by the existing legacy AM pulse width modulation such that an inverted phase would not necessarily be tied to the shorter waveform represented by inverted waveform x t in . In an example embodiment with independent data being communicated through the carrier s phase a phase inverted bit which may represent a 1 for example may be combined with either a 0 or a 1 in the AM PWM signal.

The receiver extracting the information from the phase may limit the phase demodulation operation to the last 0.5 sec of each bit where both the 0 and 1 symbols of the AM PWM scheme shown in this example are at high amplitude. Alternatively in order to gain from the additional energy in the longer 0 pulses 0.8 sec in this example the receiver may extend the demodulation of phase during those symbols to 0.8 sec when the content is of the AM PWM modulation is known to be 0 . In the existing WWVB protocol for example there are several such bits fixed at 0 . Additionally when a device operating in accordance with the present invention has already acquired the time and is tracking it its reception of the phase modulated information may consider the predicted durations of the time information bits as they are defined by the particular AM PWM protocol thereby further optimizing reception.

In an alternative embodiment non antipodal phase modulation can be used to modulate the PWM signal. For example the magnitude of phase modulation applied may be set at any value less than 180 e.g. 45 25 13 etc. Use of a lower value such as 13 ensures that the modulated signal even if the rate of phase modulation were significantly increased is contained within a narrow bandwidth and does not escape the narrow filtering in typical existing AM receivers which is on the order of 10 Hz. Note that such narrowband PM is not comparable in performance to antipodal BPSK where the two symbols are 180 apart exhibiting a correlation factor of 1.

A diagram illustrating a first example phase modulation added to an amplitude modulated carrier in an example communication protocol is shown in . The waveform illustrates three consecutive example bits in the transmission as a time domain waveform . The three bits and each span a duration of one second. Each of the one second bits is divided into a first portion for which the carrier power is low and a second portion for which the carrier power is high. In the WWVB protocol the information in each bit depends on the durations of these two portions with an even 0.5 0.5 sec partition representing a 1 bit and the uneven 0.2 0.8 sec partition representing a 0 bit. A 0.8 0.2 sec partition represents a marker bit which may be used for timing identification but does not carry information. The bits represented under the legacy PWM AM modulation are indicated at the top portion of the diagram. For example the three PWM AM bits shown are 1 0 and 1 .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention information is added to the existing modulation using BPSK modulation. A 1 is represented by a carrier having an inverted phase with the phase inversion occurring at the beginning of the bit as shown for the third bit at t 2 sec. It is noted that the phase inversion may also be performed at any other instance e.g. during the low amplitude portion of the carrier if the receiver s phase demodulation operation is limited to the high amplitude duration and disregards the low amplitude portion. While the information represented by the pulse widths is shown to be 1 0 1 the information that is sent in parallel in accordance with the example BPSK or PRK protocol of the present invention is shown to be 0 0 1 as shown along the bottom portion of the diagram . Note that there is not necessarily any relationship between the bit pattern transmitted using PWM AM and that transmitted using PM as they can be completely independent. It is noted that the carrier frequency is not shown to scale in the figure to enhance clarity but it is preferable for the phase transitions to occur at zero crossing instances of the carrier.

A diagram illustrating a second example phase modulation added to an amplitude modulated carrier in an example communication protocol is shown in . The waveform illustrates four consecutive example bits in the transmission as a time domain waveform . The four bits each span a duration of one second. Each of the one second bits is divided into a first portion for which the carrier power is low and a second portion for which the carrier power is high. The bits represented under the legacy PWM AM modulation are indicated in waveform in the middle portion of the diagram. For example the three PWM AM bits shown are 0 1 0 and 1 . The same bit pattern is represented in the phase modulation over PWM AM waveform shown in the lower portion of the diagram. As shown the phase of the carrier is inverted for the 1 bits. Note that the data transmitted using legacy PWM AM may be completely independent of the data transmitted using PM. In this example they are the same.

The diagram in describes the amplitude pulse width modulation used in the historical WWVB broadcast as well as the phase modulation introduced in accordance with the present invention. It is noted that the enhancement in the communication protocol offered by the present invention in the form of independently defined phase modulation and the use of a known synchronization sequence is not limited to the broadcast of WWVB and may be applied worldwide where similar AM pulse width schemes are used or where no AM pulse width modulation needs to be supported allowing for continuous BPSK to be used.

The phase modulation added to the amplitude modulation may comprise any suitable type of phase modulation including for example BPSK DBPSK PRK PM MSK and FSK. In addition the underlying amplitude modulation may comprise any type of amplitude modulation including for example ASK AM SSB QAM pulse position modulation PPM pulse width modulation PWM OOK and ASK.

A diagram illustrating a first example time information frame structure incorporating timing time and additional information is shown in . The time information frame generally referenced comprises a synchronization sequence field a current time data field other time related data field and optional error correction code ECC field . In one embodiment each time information frame spans 60 seconds. Frames having other durations are possible as well.

The synchronization sequence field comprises a known synchronization sequence e.g. barker code modified barker code pseudo random sequence or any other known word or bit symbol sequence at a known timing within the one minute time information frame of 60 bits that is transmitted every 60 seconds. Note that in alternative embodiments the synchronization sequence may be placed within a frame N such that it overlaps or straddles the frame N 1 before it or frame N 1 after it.

The current time data field may consist of a merged date and time of day field or may be broken down into individual sub fields used to indicate date year hours minutes etc. The other time related data field may include zero or more fields used to indicate daylight savings time start leap second information etc.

A diagram illustrating a second example time information frame structure incorporating timing time and additional information is shown in . The time information frame generally referenced comprises a synchronization sequence field an hour data field minute data field optional hour minute ECC field daylight savings time DST data field leap second data field and DST leap second ECC field . In one example the synchronization sequence field spans 14 bits the combined hour data field minute data field and hour minute ECC field span 31 bits in a merged time data field and the DST data field leap second field and DST leap second ECC field comprising an additional information field spans 11 bits in total.

A diagram illustrating a third example time information frame structure incorporating timing time and additional information is shown in . The time information frame generally referenced comprises a synchronization sequence field a minute data field optional minute ECC field daylight savings time DST data field leap second data field and DST leap second ECC field . In one example the synchronization sequence field spans 14 bits the minute data field and minute ECC field span 31 bits in a merged time data field and the DST data field leap second field and DST leap second ECC field comprising an additional information field spans 11 bits in total.

In the above two versions of the time information frame the synchronization sequence comprises a 14 bit known sequence. The receivers use this sequence to acquire initial synchronization such as when first powering on. Receivers also use the sequence to track the synchronization timing signal broadcast in the frames in order to adjust their internal timekeeping to maintain synchronization with the transmitter.

Note that the term phase modulation may denote either 1 phase modulation over i.e. combined with the historical amplitude pulse width modulation or 2 pure phase modulation alone. Note also that the data fields assigned to each bit in the frame for both amplitude and phase modulation are essentially completely independent. In one embodiment aspects of the historical amplitude pulse width modulation however are taken into consideration. For example the assignment of data to the marker bits of the amplitude pulse width modulation is avoided due to the shorter high power duration 0.2 s of these symbols.

Extracting timing from a digitally modulated received signal is best accomplished when a known sequence having good autocorrelation properties is embedded within it. This allows for a correlation operation in the receiver to reveal the timing of the received signal even in low SNIR conditions for which the recovery of individual bits within the sequence might have involved high error probabilities. The successful identification of the known sequence does not require the recovery of the individual bits comprising it and directly corresponds to the total energy in the known sequence which is proportional to its duration. Therefore the duration of the known sequence in the frame is maximized while weighing this against the need to send the time information in a robust fashion i.e. with redundancy. In one embodiment a total duration of 14 seconds is allocated to the known synchronization sequence in the time information frame. Hence the amount of energy invested in the timing information is on the order of a quarter of the total energy in a 60 second frame.

A diagram illustrating an example phase modulated carrier in an example communication protocol is shown in . In this second example waveform the phase modulation is not added to a PWM AM signal but rather is sent as the entire bit duration. The waveform illustrates three consecutive example bits in the transmission as a time domain waveform . The three bits and each span a duration of one second. During each of the bits the carrier power is high. The modulation of information is performed using BPSK or PRK modulation in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. A 1 is represented by a carrier having an inverted phase with the phase inversion occurring at the beginning of the bit as shown for the third bit at t 2 sec. The information sent in accordance with the BPSK protocol of the present invention is shown to be 0 0 1 as shown along the bottom portion of the diagram . It is noted that the carrier frequency is not shown to scale in the figure to enhance clarity but it is preferable but not necessary for the phase transitions to occur at zero crossing instances of the carrier as may be implemented easily when a bit spans an integer number of carrier cycles as is the case for WWVB where the carrier frequency is 60 kHz i.e. 60 000 cycles per bit .

A high level block diagram illustrating an example combined amplitude modulation AM and phase modulation PM receiver with multiple antennas is shown in . In this example embodiment the receiver is operative to receive both a legacy PWM AM modulated broadcast signal as well as a phase modulated signal which is transmitted over the legacy PWM AM signal. The receiver generally referenced comprises an AM receiver block and a PM receiver block both of which are connected to antenna multiplexor at their input and to processor at their output.

A plurality of antennas are coupled to antenna multiplexor which functions to output a signal based on the signals generated by the plurality of antennas. The actual function or operation employed by the antenna multiplexor may be defined in accordance with the particular implementation and is not critical to operation of the invention. In one example embodiment the antenna multiplexor combines the signals from its connected antennas using a defined function. The function may be defined a priori or may be defined dynamically based on one or more criteria. In another embodiment the antenna multiplexor selects one of the input antenna signals where the selection is based on some criteria. The actual criteria used is not critical to the invention.

In the example embodiment shown in an antenna multiplexor is used to select one of the plurality of antennas to feed to the AM and PM receivers respectively. A multiplexor control signal determines the particular antenna signal that is input to the AM and PM receivers. The multiplexor control signal may be generated by a processor or other entity based on any desired criteria such as SNR or SNIR.

The amplitude modulation receiver comprises an envelope detector based receiver of the type that is typically used in consumer market RCC devices. The AM receiver comprises band pass filter e.g. crystal filter envelope detector and threshold block . As shown in this block diagram the AM signal is converted into an analog equivalent baseband signal by use of a conventional nonlinear envelope detector similar to the diode based circuit in traditional AM receivers . A threshold operation that follows serves to determine the middle level around which the voltages below it would be converted to a logic low level and the voltages above it to a logic high level. The digital processing stage that follows this operation measures the pulse durations and accordingly recovers the symbols 1 0 or marker . Note that with such a receiver topology an on frequency interferer can cause the receiver to decode that symbol incorrectly. Typically the effect of the interferer is greatest when the signal is at a low . If the interferer is exactly on frequency however then it has a very significant effect when it is out of phase and added to the high state of the transmitted signal e.g. the WWVB signal .

In operation of a typical envelope detector based receiver the modulated signal input to the receiver has two different amplitude levels with the information represented in the durations of each of these levels. The high low decision is made by following the low and high levels with dedicated peak holders with appropriate time constants and deriving the middle average of these two. A threshold operation e.g. a simple comparator is then used to create the logic level signals for the digital stage that follows where the pulse durations are measured and the 1 0 marker symbol decision is made.

The phase modulation receiver comprises a demodulator correlator and decoder . In one embodiment the PM receiver is operative to receive the signal broadcast from WWVB in Fort Collins Colo. This broadcast signal adds phase modulation PM to the WWVB broadcast while maintaining the existing AM code so as not to impact the existing time of day RCC devices.

A high level block diagram illustrating an example phase modulation only receiver with multiple antennas is shown in . In one embodiment the receiver generally referenced comprises a coherent BPSK optimal receiver that may be implemented digitally. The PM receiver comprises a plurality of antennas antenna multiplexor coupled to analog front end AFE low pass filter LPF analog to digital converter ADC mixer locally synthesized carrier i.e. local oscillator LO correlator and threshold detector . The filtering of the signal is based on the correlation operation which is followed by a decision that is made in the presence of AWGN.

A plurality of antennas are coupled to antenna multiplexor which functions to output a signal based on the signals generated by the plurality of antennas. The actual function or operation employed by the antenna multiplexor may be defined in accordance with the particular implementation and is not critical to operation of the invention. In one example embodiment the antenna multiplexor combines the signals from its connected antennas using a defined function. The function may be defined a priori or may be defined dynamically based on one or more criteria. In another embodiment the antenna multiplexor selects one of the input antenna signals where the selection is based on some criteria. The actual criteria used is not critical to the invention.

In the example embodiment shown in an antenna multiplexor is used to select one of the plurality of antennas to feed to the PM receiver. A multiplexor control signal determines the particular antenna signal that is input to the PM receiver. The multiplexor control signal may be generated by a processor not shown or other entity based on any desired criteria such as SNR or SNIR.

Note that the term phase modulation may denote either 1 phase modulation over i.e. combined with the legacy amplitude pulse width modulation or 2 pure phase modulation alone. Note also that data fields assigned to each bit in the frame for both amplitude and phase modulation are essentially completely independent.

The phase modulation added to the amplitude modulation may comprise any suitable type of phase modulation including for example BPSK DBPSK PRK angle modulation PM MSK FSK etc. In addition the underlying amplitude modulation may comprise any type of amplitude modulation including for example ASK AM SSB QAM pulse position modulation PPM pulse width modulation PWM OOK ASK etc.

As described supra the RCC broadcast signal may employ phase modulation in addition to or in place of traditional AM modulation. The addition of phase modulation enables increased sensitivity and improved performance at low SNIR signal to noise and interference ratio compared to AM modulation. The use of a receiver employing multiple antennas allows the avoidance of orientation dependent nulls in reception which could degrade receiver performance regardless of the type of modulation used. Thus the multiple antenna scheme of the present invention is applicable to any RCC type receiver whether employing AM FM PM PWM or any combination thereof.

The invention thus provides a solution for the directionality problem that is suitable for products of various form factors. In accordance with the present invention a plurality of antennas are used in the receiver. In one embodiment the multiple antennas are placed substantially perpendicular to each other. In the case of a dual antenna for example if the device relying upon the multiple antenna structure is placed at the worst orientation for the first antenna for which it experiences a null the second antenna is at its optimal orientation and offers better reception. Note that the receiver may have the capability to determine which of the two antennas offers superior reception or may simply toggle to the second antenna if reception fails in the first antenna which may have been chosen arbitrarily. In such operation particularly when reception in the first antenna is successful thereby obviating the need to attempt reception in the second antenna the receiver may never establish which antenna experiences superior reception. Furthermore it is conceivable that the second antenna would never be used if reception through the first one is repeatedly successful.

Note that in the case of a multi antenna RCC used in conjunction with a phase modulated signal both the multi antenna capability as well as the enhanced modulation scheme serve to improve the overall robustness of the system particularly in the presence of interference. In particular when a strong interfering signal is induced from a particular direction that is more closely aligned with one antenna than with the other s it may be possible to mitigate its effect by avoiding that antenna even if the level of the desired signal is higher in it. This implies that the selected antenna may have the highest SNIR ratio rather than the strongest level of desired signal representing one embodiment of the present invention in terms of the antenna selection criteria.

As is well known low frequency LF electromagnetic waves can propagate very long distances e.g. thousands of kilometers due to the good reflective properties of the ionosphere at those frequencies. In essence a waveguide is formed between the earth and the ionosphere where LF waves propagate with relatively little path loss. Moreover due to the long wavelengths LF waves can easily propagate into and around urban structures without diffraction losses. These are the primary reasons for using the LF band for timekeeping signal broadcasts. Transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves in the low frequency LF band however are extremely challenging due to the very long wavelengths involved e.g. five kilometers in the case of WWVB operating at 60 kHz . Consequently in the transmitting antenna having relatively small dimensions compared to the wavelength most of the power is lost to poor antenna efficiency due to physical size restrictions.

The situation is a few orders of magnitude worse for the receiving antennas placed in relatively small consumer market products. In particular antennas integrated into wristwatches to receive the time signals at a frequency of 60 kHz are typically about 2 cm long i.e. about 1 250000 in wavelength. Typical ferrite core inductors commercially available for receivers in watches have a ferrite core with a relative permittivity of approximately 2000 and length of approximately 20 mm. Considering the complete receiver system this antenna constitutes the bulkiest and potentially most expensive component in the system. This bulky component cannot be easily miniaturized and its cost is prohibitively high compared to the rest of the receiver. It should be noted that in single antenna systems further losses may be experienced as a result of mis orientation as the magnetic pickup of a ferrite rod antenna requires that it be placed broadside towards the broadcasting station allowing the magnetic flux to flow through the loops constituting the antenna. By addressing this problem the present invention allows for each of the multiple antennas in the system to be smaller and cheaper thus offering a significant advantage.

Several embodiments of a multiple antenna receiver scheme are presented infra as well as a method for the selection of the preferred antenna. Several examples of inductors with reduced size and cost are presented for use in RCC receivers.

In an example embodiment two ferrite rod antennas are used which are placed perpendicularly on a printed circuit board PCB or in the housing of a device such as an alarm clock that is placed on a night table. The orientation of the PCB in such a device is parallel to the floor. In this embodiment both ferrite rods are parallel to the floor and if one happens to experience a null the other antenna offers better reception. In addition the two antennas may also differ in the level of interference they pick up from a nearby source of EMI allowing the receiver to select the antenna for which the higher signal to interference ratio is experienced rather than selecting an antenna based on the highest level of signal sensed for each antenna.

A diagram illustrating an example L shaped dual antenna is shown in . The L shaped antenna generally referenced comprises an L shaped ferrite rod or bar with each leg having separate windings. A first leg having length Lhas a winding of Nturns. A second leg having length Lhas a winding of Nturns. Both legs have a height H and width W. The windings are connected at a common point which is connected to the receiver alongside with leads 1 and 2 thus representing a 3 terminal interface. Note that Land Lmay be equal or non equal depending on the particular implementation.

Note that in the ferrite core based embodiment the two substantially orthogonal antennas are based on windings on the two orthogonal arms of the L shaped core. The two inductors can either share a terminal i.e. three terminal interface as shown in or may be connected separately to the receiver i.e. a four wire interface .

In alternative embodiments the ferrite core may have other shapes such as a T shaped core X shaped core or other shape to provide two separate inductors wound on the same ferrite core such that the two antennas do not have a common axis thereby having different null orientations. In the case that the two antennas share a common terminal i.e. a three wire interface the interface between the dual antenna structure and the receiver is simplified in terms of pin count. It may allow the switching between the antennas within the receiver to use fewer switching elements.

A diagram illustrating an example dual antenna with shared ferrite core block is shown in . In this ferrite core based embodiment the antenna generally referenced comprises a core which may be a rectangular cubic hexahedron or other shaped prism with the two inductor windings having Nwindings and having Nwindings wound around different dimensions of it. The width W length LEN and height H may be either equal or unequal potentially leading to a situation where L L. Depending on the implementation if there is an advantage in satisfying L L the inequality in the dimensions may be compensated through a corresponding N Nturns ratio. For example when the ferrite core has a cube shape i.e. W H LEN the inductances may be made equal when N N. Another degree of freedom is the location of the windings with respect to the edges of the faces of the ferrite shape onto which the wire is wound. In the example shown in the Nwindings are placed to the right of center whereas the Nwindings are substantially centered.

A diagram illustrating an example 3 dimensional triple antenna is shown in . The three dimensional L shaped antenna generally referenced comprises a ferrite core having three legs substantially orthogonal to each other. A first leg of length LENcomprises winding with Nturns a second leg of length LENcomprises winding with N turns and a third leg of length LENcomprises winding with N turns. The legs have a width W and height H. The windings are connected at a COMMON point with leads 1 2 and 3 connecting to the receiver. Note that LEN LENand LENmay be equal or non equal depending on the particular implementation and the resultant inductance L Land Lmay be either equal or unequal.

Note that the three inductors can either share a terminal i.e. four terminal interface as shown in or may be connected separately to the receiver i.e. a six wire interface . In alternative embodiments the ferrite core may have other shapes such as a three dimensional T shaped core X shaped core or other shape such that the three antennas do not have a common axis thereby having different null orientations may be used to provide three separate inductors wound on the same ferrite core.

A diagram illustrating an example triple antenna with shared ferrite block is shown in . In this ferrite core based embodiment the antenna generally referenced comprises a core which may be any type of hexahedron rectangular cubic or other shaped prism with the three inductor windings and wound around different dimensions thereof and having turns ratio N Nand N respectively. The width W length LEN and height H may be either equal or unequal potentially leading to a situation where L L L. Note that variations in the dimensions may be compensated through corresponding relationships between the turns ratio of N Nand N. When the ferrite core has a cube shape i.e. W H LEN the three inductances can be made equal when N N N. Another degree of freedom is the location of the windings with respect to the edges of the faces of the ferrite shape onto which the wire is wound.

In one embodiment one or more of the individual antennas may comprise an antenna printed on FR 4 material or other PCB material. Such an antenna can be placed alongside receiver circuitry and serve as a second antenna in addition to a ferrite rod antenna which may be considered the main primary antenna for example . Inductor structures for PCBs are known in the art. The inductor could be designed to occupy an area smaller than 10 cm. A larger antenna can be used where possible to allow for better pick up at the cost of greater area. A capacitor is typically placed in parallel with the inductor to resonate at the frequency of interest e.g. 60 kHz for reception of the WWVB broadcast .

A diagram illustrating a first example printed circuit board based printed planar spiral inductor is shown in . The printed inductor comprises a planar square spiral shaped conductive trace printed or etched onto a PCB material such as FR 4. Note that dashed lines indicate a conductive trace on the opposite side of the PCB.

In an alternative embodiment the planar square spiral inductor can be monolithically integrated with the RCC receiver circuit described supra. In this case the spiral inductor is constructed on a semiconductor substrate and may be sandwiched between the substrate and a high permittivity ferrite superstrate where the length of one side of the spiral is on the order of a few millimeters. For example the planar inductor may comprise a square spiral consisting of 30 turns each of which has a thickness of 35 m and trace width of 50 m. Considering a gap of 10 m between the traces the resulting inductance L can be calculated as L Na 2 

In one embodiment the ferrite superstrate comprises CoZrTa magnetic material. The copper wires making up the inductor are formed on top of CMOS circuitry and surrounded by CoZrTa magnetic material deposited around the wires using magnetic vias to complete the magnetic circuit.

Assuming an effective 500 for the ferrite superstrate results in 1 mH self inductance which is comparable to a ferrite core inductor. Furthermore the total resistance of the spiral is 2 resulting in a minimum Q of approximately 177 at 60 kHz. These values are close to commercially available ferrite core antennas with the difference being that the spiral antenna of the present invention has the benefits of 1 low cost 2 planar design and 3 monolithically integrated with the rest of the receiver. Thus the cost of the receiver can be cut by more than half and the weight and volume of the system can be significantly reduced without any performance degradation.

A diagram illustrating a second example printed circuit board based printed inductor is shown in . The printed inductor comprises conductive traces on both sides of the PCB material connected by a plurality of conductive vias . The combination of printed traces and vias take the shape of turns or coils that pass through the PCB.

The above described structures are applicable to numerous devices such as wall clocks where the PCB is perpendicular to the floor. In such a position the ferrite rod antenna which is typically placed along the wide dimension of the clock s face is parallel to the floor and when its orientation is at a null an orthogonal antenna that would be at an optimal orientation would have to be positioned vertically i.e. protrude from the flat clock which is usually impractical. The printed antenna offers a solution to that orientation while being flat.

This second antenna may have inferior performance with respect to the ferrite rod but may still offer a benefit whenever the primary antenna exhibits poor reception due to orientation or a strong interferer. For example if the primary antenna suffers a loss of 15 dB due to misalignment with the optimal direction and the printed antenna is only 10 dB inferior to it when they are compared at their strongest orientations then by switching to the printed i.e. secondary antenna the receiver will gain 5 dB in signal strength. The second antenna may also serve to offer relief from a strong interferer since the interferer may be much stronger in one orientation versus the other whereas the signal level may be sufficiently high in the antenna for which the interference is lower.

In another embodiment where the width of the printed antenna is narrow enough or the product is not too flat both antennas may be printed with one being based on a separate dedicated PCB which is mounted perpendicularly onto the main PCB. The printed antenna may also be coated with a ferromagnetic material or a ferromagnetic material may be placed in contact or close proximity to increase the inductance of the printed antenna.

In an alternative embodiment a wire is wound around the PCB e.g. around the face of a wall clock and acts as an inductor whose optimal orientation is orthogonal with the ferrite rod assumed to be parallel to the floor. Note that the inductance achievable in such wire based antenna typically depends on the area captured by it and the number of windings in the inductor.

A diagram illustrating a first example printed circuit board based antenna is shown in . The PCB antenna comprises a wire wound through PCB material forming N turns or coils making up the inductor. The wire passes from one side of the PCB to the other through holes .

A diagram illustrating a second example printed circuit board based antenna is shown in . The PCB antenna comprises a wire wound around a narrow portion of PCB material that is attached or separate from the main board . A number of turns N of the wire form the inductor.

Note that the PCBs of antennas of both may be coated with a ferromagnetic material or a ferromagnetic material may be placed in contact or close proximity to increase the inductance of the antenna.

Note that in another embodiment one or more of the antennas of a multi antenna receiver may comprise surface mount devices SMD of relatively small dimensions. A single antenna of such a type may be used in small wrist watches where it is assumed to experience various different orientations since a wrist watch is typically not stationary such that it will eventually receive. Alternatively windings in two or three orthogonal directions as shown in respectively may allow for reception even when one antenna is at a null without doubling or tripling the mass of the ferromagnetic material in the device.

In certain embodiments a plurality of antennas may be used to avoid potential nulls comprising a combination of ferrite core antennas PCB printed antennas and antennas integral to the case or structure of the clock watch or other timekeeping device.

In a ferrite core embodiment a plurality of antennas may be wound on the same piece of ferrite material. This piece of ferrite may have one of the shapes described supra or have an arbitrary shape depending on the implementation. Provided that the axis of at least two antennas is not common then for any orientation a null can be avoided with an appropriate selection of antenna s for a particular orientation or a linear combination of signals from the antennas for a given orientation.

As described supra the receiver may generate a linear combination of the multiple antenna signals or select one of them for input to the receiver. In one embodiment the receiver comprises the capability to measure and or estimate the signal to noise and interference SNIR conditions and determine which of the plurality of antennas offers superior reception. The algorithm used may be based on any desired criteria such as toggling to an alternate antenna if initial reception on a currently selected antenna appears marginal. Note that if the reception SNIR is higher than a certain threshold e.g. 20 dB above reception threshold then reception may be based on the antenna that was selected first and there is thus no need to compare reception with an alternate antenna.

In the case where the antennas are in a device whose location is substantially static e.g. a wall clock that is not assumed to be moved around then a comparison between the two antennas can be assumed to remain valid longer i.e. indefinitely. In contrast in a moving car for example there may be a need and available energy resources to perform reception in both antennas more frequently.

Alternatively the receiver may be configured to toggle between the antennas at a periodic or random interval to obviate the need for a determination of which antenna provides the stronger SNIR and or to compensate for the possibility that the SNIR may change or drift over time depending on orientation and or sources of interference.

The receiver may also be designed to employ a linear combination of the signals from the plurality of antennas with the linear coefficients selected for higher SNIR or adjusted at periodic or random intervals to assure that one or more combinations avoids a null and experiences acceptable SNIR.

Several example antennas suitable for use with the present invention are presented hereinbelow including a description of physical dimensions radiation efficiency avoidance of directionality nulls and suitable mathematical models.

In electrically small antennas where the physical dimensions are significantly smaller than the wavelength as with the reception of the WWVB signal loop antennas are often used. Due to being very small electrically loop antennas have inherently low radiation resistance and hence low efficiency . To alleviate this in one embodiment multiple loops are connected in series to form a coil. Ferrite cores can be inserted within coil antennas to further augment the radiation resistance i.e. load . In one embodiment the ferrite loading in the antenna is eliminated thereby allowing for a reduction in the antenna s form factor which simplifies its integration with various products as well provides a substantial cost savings.

The pattern of a small loop antenna is directional with a null occurring along the axis perpendicular to the loop. Furthermore loop antennas are linearly polarized and thus must be polarization matched for reception. To mitigate this orientation i.e. directional sensitivity two orthogonal loops or coils are employed as previously demonstrated and as illustrated in the example shown in . The orthogonal antennas can be switched or their responses can be combined.

A diagram illustrating a series equivalent model of a coil antenna is shown in . In the series model of the equivalent circuit representing a coil antenna the series inductance for a cylindrical coil Land resistance Rare given by 

The antenna capacitance Cis small and is often determined empirically. The equivalent circuit is typically represented in the parallel model shown in . A diagram illustrating a parallel equivalent model of a coil antenna is shown in . A diagram illustrating a loaded parallel equivalent model of a coil antenna is shown in .

The parallel equivalent circuit representing the antenna connected to a receiver represented by load R is given in . The parallel capacitance Crepresents the stray capacitance in the coil as well as the parallel connected matching resonating capacitance. The equivalent source produces a voltage given by 

If the antenna is aligned such that the incident magnetic field is perpendicular to the loop the induced voltage reduces to 

Where is the speed of light. For the circuit model shown in the relationship between Vand V which is the actual voltage across the load i.e. receiver is given by 

Thus a higher loaded quality factor results in a greater input voltage for a given field intensity. Therefore a high input impedance denoted Rin the equivalent circuit and Equations 9 and 12 is used for the receiver such that the inevitably finite resistance Rdominates.

A diagram illustrating an example unloaded coil antenna is shown in . The antenna comprises a flat coil having square dimensions 44 mm length by 10 mm height. To reduce the nulls that would otherwise be present in the loop pattern particularly for fixed devices the flat coil form factor can facilitate a two coil antenna system as shown in . The coil shown in the example in is quadruple wrapped i.e. four layers to augment the inductance. A coil having 100 turns using a wire pitch of 0.4 mm results in an

A diagram illustrating an example ferrite rod antenna suitable for WWVB receivers is shown in . The antenna generally referenced comprises a ferrite core one or more windings and optional one or more embedded tuning capacitor s . An inductance L of approximately 1.5 mH is achieved with about 150 turns and length of about 2 cm. Two such antennas oriented substantially perpendicularly can serve as the antenna system in accordance with the present invention particularly in devices that have a flat form factor parallel to the floor such as an alarm clock that is placed on a night table as opposed to a flat wall clock that is hung on the wall. It is noted that one or more embedded tuning capacitors i.e. to yield a loaded antenna coil may be added to any of the antenna embodiments disclosed herein to improve performance and eliminate the requirement of additional components on the printed circuit board.

In another embodiment an unloaded coil antenna for mobile devices is shown in . The coil has a small form factor well suited to mobile devices where compactness is of major importance. The antenna is double wrapped having the dimensions of 24 mm length 8 mm height and width has about 240 turns a wire pitch of 0.2 mm 

A diagram illustrating an example wall clock with integrated primary antenna and optional second antenna is shown in . In this embodiment a wall clock generally referenced comprises RX circuit and primary antenna as well as an optional secondary antenna . The primary antenna may comprise any suitable antenna such as a loaded or unloaded coil antenna ferrite rod antenna any of the antennas disclosed and described supra etc. The secondary antenna may for example comprise a coil of wire wound around the face of the clock. In one embodiment the coil is positioned out of view of a user either behind the actual face of the clock or in a peripheral area outside the visible area of the face.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. As numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is intended that the invention not be limited to the limited number of embodiments described herein. Accordingly it will be appreciated that all suitable variations modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

It is intended that the appended claims cover all such features and advantages of the invention that fall within the spirit and scope of the present invention. As numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is intended that the invention not be limited to the limited number of embodiments described herein. Accordingly it will be appreciated that all suitable variations modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

