---

title: Centering device for load transporting apparatus
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a load transporting apparatus that automatically centers a support foot of the apparatus about a roller assembly during a recovery phase of an incremental walking movement. In particular, the load transporting apparatus includes guide devices positioned adjacent to a roller assembly that deflect a biasing device during non-linear load transporting movements, where the biasing device acts to automatically return the support foot to a centered position relative to the roller assembly after a non-linear movement has been completed and the support foot is raised above a ground surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08839892&OS=08839892&RS=08839892
owner: Entro Industries, Inc.
number: 08839892
owner_city: Hillsboro
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130613
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 711 315 filed Dec. 11 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 490 724 issued Jul. 23 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 576 657 filed Dec. 16 2011 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TRANSPORTING A LOAD the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 711 193 filed Dec. 11 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 573 334 issued Nov. 5 2013 entitled ROTATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 711 269 filed Dec. 11 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 561 733 issued Oct. 22 2013 entitled ALIGNMENT RESTORATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to apparatuses for transporting a load and more particularly to centering devices for apparatuses used to move heavy loads over small distances with the ability to fine tune the resultant position of the heavy load.

Moving extremely heavy loads has generally been a complicated task because the large forces involved in lifting and transporting the heavy loads. When possible large loads are often transported by disassembling or breaking up the load into multiple smaller loads. However this break down and subsequent reassembly process can be very time consuming especially when a heavy load is only to be moved a small distance or needs to be repositioned.

For heavy loads that need periodic movement or adjustment devices commonly referred to as walking machines or walkers were developed. These machines typically move the heavy loads over small distances in incremental stages. Walking machines are particularly useful for moving large structures such as oil rigs which often times need to be moved in order to properly position them over pre drilled wells in oil fields or moved to a new location that is undergoing oil exploration.

Instead of using wheels driven by rotational forces to move heavy loads walking machines typically use hydraulic lift cylinders to lift the load above a supporting surface and then move or rotate the load relative to the supporting surface by transporting the load via rollers or tracks in the walking machines. U.S. Pat. No. 5 921 336 to Reed and U.S. Pat. No. 6 581 525 to Smith show two methods of using walking machines to move heavy loads such as oil rig structures. The 525 patent shows elongated beams under several rollers and lift cylinders which allows the load from the lift cylinders and rollers to be spread over a large area. However this disclosed system in the 525 patent does not allow for movement of heavy load in a direction perpendicular to the long axis of the support beams. That is movement of the heavy load is restricted in the walking device disclosed in the 525 patent to only particular directions which can make fine tuning of the position of the heavy load difficult.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a load transporting apparatus that automatically centers a support foot of the apparatus about a roller assembly during a recovery phase of an incremental walking movement. In particular the load transporting apparatus includes guide devices positioned adjacent to a roller assembly that deflect a biasing device during non linear load transporting movements where the biasing device acts to automatically return the support foot to a centered position relative to the roller assembly after a non linear movement has been completed and the support foot is raised above a ground surface.

As described above walkers or walking machines are vehicles that are used for transporting very heavy loads such as entire oil well drilling rigs. Such loads may be as great as several thousand tons and may be required to be sequentially positioned very precisely over spaced apart well bores for example. Embodiments of the present concept are directed to load transporting apparatuses such as walking machines for moving heavy loads over small distances with the ability to fine tune the resultant position of the heavy load. For ease of understanding the terms walkers walking machines walking devices and walking apparatuses are used interchangeably below. Load transporting apparatuses or systems may include one or more walking machines. Additionally a walking machine s subassembly of components that facilitate movement of the walking machine are referred herein as a walking mechanism. Walking machines may incorporate one or more walking mechanisms depending on the specific configuration of a walking machine.

For example with reference a load transporting system includes multiple walking machines that support a load being carried by the load transporting system. show examples of walking apparatuses attached to various loads according to embodiments of the invention. Referring to multiple walking apparatuses are positioned under or adjacent to an oil rig . Typically walking machines are positioned at least near edge portions of a load to balance the weight of the load over the various walking machines. However specific situations may dictate that walking machines are positioned in various other locations relative to the load .

Referring to multiple walking apparatuses are positioned under or adjacent to a silo . Although an oil rig load and a silo are respectively illustrated in walking machines may be used to move any type of relatively large load such as bridge sections ship sections structures etc. Additionally although two walking machines are shown in more or fewer walking machines may be used to move loads .

Referring to the walking apparatuses are operated to lift the load above the base surface . The walking apparatuses may again be operated substantially simultaneously to lift the load or may be operated in intervals depending on the conditions associated with the desired move.

Referring to the walking apparatuses are operated to move the load to the right. Although shows the load being moved to the right the walking apparatuses can be operated to move the load in a variety of directions depending on the desired final location of the load. Referring to the walking apparatuses are operated to lower the load to the base surface and to raise the foot portions of the walking apparatuses above the base surface. That is after the load is positioned on the base surface the walking apparatuses are further operated so that they are raised above the base surface. Here the connection between the walking apparatuses and the load support the walking apparatuses when they are raised above the base surface . After the walking apparatuses are raised above the base surface they are further operated to be repositioned for another movement walking step such as by moving the foot portions of the walking apparatuses to the right so that they are in a position as shown in . That is the base surface touching part of the walking apparatuses e.g. the support foot and related structures is moved to the right while the walking apparatuses are raised above the base surface . After the walking apparatuses have been repositioned they are operated to be lowered to the base surface as shown in . This completes a single walking cycle and further walking cycles or steps can be performed by repeating the steps described above with respect to .

As mentioned above walking apparatuses can be connected to loads in a variety of ways depending on the specific conditions surrounding the load. illustrate two such connection schemes. Although two connection schemes are illustrated in embodiments of the invention are not limited to such connection schemes as many different connection variations exist and are included in the scope of this concept.

Referring to a walking apparatus includes a support foot to interface with a base surface and a lift mechanism to raise and lower a load . In the embodiment shown in the lift mechanism of the walking apparatus is attached to a connection frame which in turn is bolted to framework supporting the load with bolts or other connection mechanisms. In some embodiments the connection frame may be part of the walking apparatus and in some instances may be permanently welded bolted or otherwise connected to the lift mechanism of the walking apparatus. In other embodiments the connection frame may be separate from the walking apparatus and may only be temporarily used with the walking apparatus in certain situations. In these embodiments for example multiple different connection frames may be built or used with specific load conditions or specifications.

In some embodiments the biasing devices are temporarily or permanently fixed to the support foot . The orientation of the support foot in these embodiments may determine the set direction of travel. That is the support foot may be positioned or set in a desired direction of travel prior to the start of a walking cycle. Here the guide devices may be coupled to the biasing devices and be moveable with respect to the support foot . Hence as the roller assembly is displaced by the travel mechanism one or more of the guide devices may be displaced relative to the support foot by pressing or pulling against one or more of the biasing devices . In other embodiments the guide devices are temporarily or permanently fixed to the support foot . Here the biasing devices may be coupled to the roller assembly and move with roller assembly as it is displaced by the travel mechanism . Hence if the roller assembly is moved in a non linear direction with respect to a centerline of the support foot or the guide devices the biasing devices may become compressed or extended to allow this displacement.

In some embodiments the one or more guide devices include guide bars positioned on opposite sides of the roller assembly . The guide bars of the guide devices may be structured to be substantially parallel with the longitudinal center line of the support foot . Here the roller assembly deflects at least one of the guide bars when movement of the roller assembly by the travel mechanism deviates from the longitudinal centerline of the support foot . That is the roller assembly deflects at least one of the guide bars when the load is displaced in a non linear movement such as a spin motion. When the load transporting apparatus is placed in a spin motion the lift cylinder must move in a circular path as the roller assembly is aligned in a straight path between guide bars . Hence there is a relative motion between the lift cylinder and the centerline of the support foot .

As shown in co pending application Ser. No. 13 711 193 entitled ROTATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety the load transporting apparatus may further include a roller track see e.g. element in of the above co pending application where the support foot is directly coupled to the roller track. Here the roller track may be coupled to the support foot with a rotation pin of the above co pending application such as a king pin connection device. In embodiments having these features the rotation pin may allow the roller track to rotate with respect to the support foot . Hence the roller track may be oriented or set in a desired direction of travel even when the support foot is oriented in a different direction. The roller assembly may be positioned on the roller track and displaced relative to the roller track.

Here the biasing devices may be connected to the roller track rather than the support foot . In some embodiments the guide device includes two guide bars positioned on opposite sides of the roller assembly and oriented substantially parallel to the longitudinal center line of the roller track which determines the set direction of travel. In these embodiments the roller assembly deflects at least one of the guide bars when movement of the roller assembly by the travel mechanism deviates from the longitudinal centerline of the roller track i.e. deviates from the set direction of travel .

In these and other embodiments the biasing devices may include spring devices respectively coupling the guide devices to the support foot . These spring devices may include one or more of leaf springs coil springs torsion springs air springs or any other type of device that includes an elastic property. In other embodiments the biasing devices may include hydraulic cylinders with accumulators.

The lift mechanism may include a lift cylinder that is connected to a load bearing frame and a cylinder rod coupled to the roller assembly . Here the cylinder rod may be structured to allow the roller assembly to rotate about a substantially vertical axis in the center of the cylinder rod. That is the roller assembly may be free to rotate around the cylinder rod . The connection between the roller assembly and the cylinder rod may be a bearing or one of a number of different connection variations. In one embodiment the cylinder rod may include a groove not shown around side edges of a lower portion of the cylinder rod where the groove corresponds to a retainer cuff not shown of the roller assembly . In this example the retainer cuff is rotatable around the groove but may easily be assembled or disassembled during installation break down or transportation of the walking apparatus .

Although the embodiment shown in shows the lift cylinder connected to the load bearing frame and the cylinder rod connected to the roller apparatus in other embodiments the cylinder rod may be connected to the load bearing frame and the lift cylinder may be connected to the roller apparatus. In these other embodiments the cylinder may be structured to allow the roller assembly to rotate about a substantially vertical axis.

The walking apparatus may also include a travel mechanism that is connected to the support foot and coupled to the roller assembly such that when the travel mechanism is activated the roller assembly moves relative to the support foot. In some embodiments the travel mechanism is attached to the support foot with a pin connection and pivot rod to allow the travel mechanism to rotate relative to the support foot. The travel mechanism may also be coupled to the roller assembly with a pin connection to allow the roller assembly to pivot relative to the travel mechanism.

Although the travel mechanism is shown as a single cylinder in the travel mechanism may include two or more travel cylinders in other embodiments. In other embodiments the travel mechanism may include different movement structures such as pulleys levers winches tracks etc.

In the embodiments shown in the roller assembly may include a plurality of rollers or roller chain that rotate as well as roll on the roller track . That is in some embodiments the roller assembly may include a WBOT series roller assembly from Hilman Rollers. Due to the configuration of the roller chain of the roller assembly and the tolerance between the roller assembly and the support foot of the walking machine the rollers of the roller chain will typically be engaged with the support foot during operation and use of the walking machine.

The roller assembly may be secured to the lower end of the lift mechanism with the roller assembly being captured within a U shaped track created in part by the guide devices . The roller assembly may be configured to roll along the bottom inside surface of the support foot as well as along the underside of two upper flanges not shown for clarity purposes that hold the roller assembly and support foot when the walking apparatus is raised above the ground surface by the lift mechanism during the recovery phase of a walking cycle. As will be understood from the more detailed discussion below the travel mechanism permits for the translation of the support foot relative to the lift mechanism and vice versa.

As shown in guide devices are positioned on either side of the roller apparatus and extend along a travel path of the roller assembly in a direction substantially parallel to the direction of travel. The guide devices may include stops on either end to help restrict the movement of the roller assembly . In addition the guide devices may include outward facing tabs to interface with biasing devices . In this illustrated embodiment the biasing devices are leaf springs that are attached to spring stops at either end of the leaf springs. The spring stops are further fixed to the support foot to provide fixed points of reference for the leaf springs . In operation which is discussed in additional detail below with reference to the leaf springs are deflected outward when the roller assembly pushes against and shifts the guide devices . The leaf springs may include steel plastic or any other type of material that can deflect without permanently damaging the material i.e. without reaching a plastic region of the material s stress strain curve .

As discussed above in other embodiments a roller track may be included in the walking apparatus and positioned between the roller assembly and the support foot . For ease of understanding in and below this other embodiment can be easily visualized by replacing the references to support foot for element with references to a roller track. Hence this embodiment would simply use element as the roller track and an additional element in a support foot under the roller track as shown in for example of co pending application Ser. No. 13 711 193 entitled ROTATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS. Here as discussed above the roller track may be secured to the elongate ground engaging foot support foot via a rotational pin which enables the roller track to be rotationally positioned relative to the foot for steering of the walking machine .

Referring to a walking apparatus includes a lift cylinder roller assembly travel mechanism and support foot as described above with reference to . Briefly the travel mechanism which is fixed to the support foot with a pin connection and pivot rod is configured to displace the roller assembly relative to the support foot during the load movement phase of a walking cycle when the walking apparatus is engaged with a ground surface and a load is lifted above the ground surface by the lift mechanism .

As discussed above with respect to the walking apparatus also includes guide devices A B positioned on either side of the roller assembly and biasing devices A B such as leaf springs engaged with the respective guide devices. The leaf springs A B are further fixed at end portions to spring stops which are attached to the support foot . In the walking apparatus is shown at a point in the load movement phase of a walking cycle prior to movement of the load.

Referring to a spin movement or other non linear movement is made by the walking apparatus as part of the load movement phase of a walking cycle. Here the travel mechanism is activated to pull the roller assembly toward the travel mechanism. In this instance because the movement was non linear the roller assembly deviates from a set direction of travel i.e. the orientation of the lengthwise direction of the support foot and presses against the upper guide device A. By pressing against the upper guide device A the roller assembly shifts the guide device upward into the upper biasing leaf spring A. This upward shift of the guide device A deflects the upper leaf spring A. Note that the roller assembly may become separated from the other guide device B lower guide device in this example when shifting one of the guide devices A. Note also that the non linear movement of the roller assembly may not be caused solely based on the pulling force of the travel mechanism but rather may be due to the movement of multiple walking apparatuses that are oriented in different directions to accomplish a spin movement or other steering movement as shown for example in of the co pending application Ser. No. 13 711 193 entitled ROTATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS.

Referring to the lift mechanism is activated to lower the load to the ground surface and lift the walking apparatus above the ground surface. As the support foot loses contact with the ground surface the upper deflected leaf spring A releases its stored potential energy by shifting the upper guide device A back down toward the roller assembly . The shifting upper guide device A in turn pushes the roller assembly back to a centered position along a set direction of travel or longitudinal centerline of the support foot as shown in . If this returning centering force from the deflected leaf spring A is more than needed to return the roller assembly to a centered position the lower guide device B and lower biasing device B help prevent the roller assembly from being pushed back past the centered position. This process shown in may be part of the recovery phase of a walking cycle.

Referring to the travel cylinder is activated again to move the support foot forward in the direction of travel here to the right . This movement repositions the support foot in anticipation of another walking cycle. From here the lift mechanism would be activated to lower the support foot to the ground surface and raise the load as shown in .

Referring to a load transporting or walking apparatus includes a lift mechanism a roller assembly and a support foot . The lift mechanism may include a hydraulic jack suspended from a horizontal beam of the load bearing frame .

The lift mechanism may include a lift cylinder that is connected to a load bearing frame and a cylinder rod coupled to the roller assembly . Here the cylinder rod may be structured to allow the roller assembly to rotate about a substantially vertical axis in the center of the cylinder rod. That is the roller assembly may be free to rotate around the cylinder rod . The connection between the roller assembly and the cylinder rod may be a bearing or one of a number of different connection variations. In one embodiment the cylinder rod may include a groove not shown around side edges of a lower portion of the cylinder rod where the groove corresponds to a retainer cuff not shown of the roller assembly . In this example the retainer cuff is rotatable around the groove but may easily be assembled or disassembled during installation break down or transportation of the walking apparatus .

Although the embodiment shown in shows the lift cylinder connected to the load bearing frame and the cylinder rod connected to the roller apparatus in other embodiments the cylinder rod may be connected to the load bearing frame and the lift cylinder may be connected to the roller apparatus. In these other embodiments the cylinder may be structured to allow the roller assembly to rotate about a substantially vertical axis.

The walking apparatus may also include a travel mechanism that is connected to the support foot and coupled to the roller assembly such that when the travel mechanism is activated the roller assembly moves relative to the support foot. In some embodiments the travel mechanism is attached to the support foot with a pin connection and pivot rod to allow the travel mechanism to rotate relative to the support foot. The travel mechanism may also be coupled to the roller assembly with a pin connection to allow the roller assembly to pivot relative to the travel mechanism.

Although the travel mechanism is shown as a single cylinder in the travel mechanism may include two or more travel cylinders in other embodiments. In other embodiments the travel mechanism may include different movement structures such as pulleys levers winches tracks etc.

In the embodiments shown in the roller assembly may include a plurality of rollers or roller chain that rotate as well as roll on the roller track . That is in some embodiments the roller assembly may include a WBOT series roller assembly from Hilman Rollers. Due to the configuration of the roller chain of the roller assembly and the tolerance between the roller assembly and the support foot of the walking machine the rollers of the roller chain will typically be engaged with the support foot during operation and use of the walking machine.

The roller assembly may be secured to the lower end of the lift mechanism with the roller assembly being captured within a U shaped track created in part by the guide devices . The roller assembly may be configured to roll along the bottom inside surface of the support foot as well as along the underside of two upper flanges not shown for clarity purposes that hold the roller assembly and support foot when the walking apparatus is raised above the ground surface by the lift mechanism during the recovery phase of a walking cycle. As will be understood from the more detailed discussion below the travel mechanism permits for the translation of the support foot relative to the lift mechanism and vice versa.

As shown in guide devices are positioned on either side of the roller apparatus and extend along a travel path of the roller assembly in a direction substantially parallel to the direction of travel. The guide devices may include stops on either end to help restrict the movement of the roller assembly . In this illustrated embodiment the biasing devices are coil springs that are attached to spring stops . These coil springs may be positioned near end portions of the guide devices to provide stable deflection during the shifting of the guide devices. The spring stops are further fixed to the support foot to provide fixed points of reference for the coil springs . In operation which is discussed in additional detail below with reference to the coil springs are deflected by compressing toward the spring stops when the roller assembly pushes against and shifts the guide devices . The coil springs may include steel plastic or any other type of material that can act as spring device.

Referring to a walking apparatus includes a lift cylinder roller assembly travel mechanism and support foot as described above with reference to . Briefly the travel mechanism which is fixed to the support foot with a pin connection and pivot rod is configured to displace the roller assembly relative to the support foot during the load movement phase of a walking cycle when the walking apparatus is engaged with a ground surface and a load is lifted above the ground surface by the lift mechanism .

As discussed above with respect to the walking apparatus also includes guide devices A positioned on either side of the roller assembly and biasing devices A B such as coil springs engaged with the respective guide devices. The coil springs A B are further fixed to spring stops which are attached to the support foot . In the walking apparatus is shown at a point in the load movement phase of a walking cycle prior to movement of the load.

Referring to a spin movement or other non linear movement is made by the walking apparatus as part of the load movement phase of a walking cycle. Here the travel mechanism is activated to pull the roller assembly toward the travel mechanism. In this instance because the movement was non linear the roller assembly deviates from a set direction of travel i.e. the orientation of the lengthwise direction of the support foot and presses against the upper guide device A. By pressing against the upper guide device A the roller assembly shifts the guide device upward into the upper biasing coil springs A. This upward shift of the guide device A compresses the upper coil springs A. Note that the roller assembly may become separated from the other guide device B lower guide device in this example when shifting one of the guide devices A. Note also that the non linear movement of the roller assembly may not be caused solely based on the pulling force of the travel mechanism but rather may be due to the movement of multiple walking apparatuses that are oriented in different directions to accomplish a spin movement or other steering movement as shown for example in of the co pending application Ser. No. 13 711 193 entitled ROTATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS.

Referring to the lift mechanism is activated to lower the load to the ground surface and lift the walking apparatus above the ground surface. As the support foot loses contact with the ground surface the upper deflected coil springs A release their stored potential energy by shifting the upper guide device A back down toward the roller assembly . The shifting upper guide device A in turn pushes the roller assembly back to a centered position along a set direction of travel or longitudinal centerline of the support foot as shown in . If this returning centering force from the deflected coil springs A is more than needed to return the roller assembly to a centered position the lower guide device B and lower biasing device B help prevent the roller assembly from being pushed back past the centered position.

Referring to the travel cylinder is activated again to move the support foot forward in the direction of travel here to the right . This movement repositions the support foot in anticipation of another walking cycle. From here the lift mechanism would be activated to lower the support foot to the ground surface and raise the load as shown in .

Unlike some of the embodiments discussed above the embodiment of the walking apparatus shown in include only a single guide bar positioned on one side of the roller assembly. To center the support foot during a recovery phase of a walking cycle when the roller assembly is displaced on either side of a longitudinal centerline of the support foot i.e. deviates from a set direction of travel the guide bar includes a slot that partially encloses a retaining portion of a guide spacer . The guide spacer may be fixed to the roller assembly and move within the slot of the guide bar via guide rollers . By partially enclosing the retaining portion of the guide spacer the guide device will compress the biasing devices if the roller assembly deviates from the direction of travel toward the guide device and the guide device will expand the biasing devices if the roller assembly deviates from the direction of travel away from the guide device. Hence this embodiment requires only a single guide bar rather than multiple guide bars around the roller assembly.

In some embodiments the biasing devices may each include a housing a pre compressed spring and a rub surface . The pre compressed spring may be compressed a desired amount in the housing . This pre compression allows the biasing devices A B to be deflected or compressed further when a deviation of travel from the roller assembly is directed toward the biasing device while allowing the other biasing device on the other side of the roller assembly to disengage from the guide bar . This allows a faster and easier return to a centered position because the biasing devices are not acting against each other. The housing may be structured to be flexible to allow further compression of the spring but have a maximum fixed extendable length to prevent the spring from extending beyond a desired pre compressed state. The rub surface may be structured to move along the fixed guide bars without excessive friction. Hence the rub surface may include a material with a relatively low coefficient of friction. Additionally the rub surface may be replaceable in case it is excessively worn or otherwise damaged.

Referring to a flow begins at process where the lift mechanism is activated to lower the support foot to a ground surface and raising a load supported by the load bearing frame. In process the travel mechanism is activated to displace the roller assembly connected to the lift mechanism relative to the support foot and ground surface thereby moving a position of the load in a predefined direction of travel. Depending on the movement of the travel mechanism relative to the centerline of the support foot or in embodiments with a roller track relative to the centerline of the roller track or set direction of travel the position of the lift cylinder may deviate from the longitudinal centerline of the support foot or roller track i.e. deviate from a set direction of travel . As discussed above when the roller assembly and load are moved off of a set direction of travel the guide devices are shifted by the load displacement thereby deflecting the biasing devices. On the other hand if the roller assembly moves along the set direction of travel i.e. stays centered on a longitudinal centerline of the support foot or roller track the guide devices are not shifted and the biasing devices are not further activated. In process it is observed whether the resulting position of the roller assembly has deviated from a set direction of travel or centerline of the support foot or roller track.

When the roller assembly has followed the set direction of travel the flow proceeds to process where the lift mechanism is activated to lower the load and raise the support foot. However when the roller assembly has deviated from a set direction of travel the guide device is shifted by the movement of the roller assembly and load thereby deflecting the biasing device as shown in step . That is the biasing devices are deflected when movement of the roller assembly results in deviation from a set direction of travel. In process the lift mechanism is activated to lower the load and raise the support foot from the ground surface. As the support foot loses contact with the ground surface the deflected biasing device acts on the support foot or roller track to center the support foot relative to the roller assembly as shown in step . That is support foot and roller track if present are automatically centered with respect to the lift mechanism or lift cylinder. After step or process the flow may include optional process where the lift mechanism is repositioned with respect to the support foot. If further walking steps are needed to move the load to a final position the flow may return to process to initiate another walking cycle.

As described above some embodiments of this invention are directed to a load transporting apparatus configured to move a load over a ground surface in one or more incremental steps each including a load movement phase and a recovery phase. The load transporting apparatus may include a load bearing frame attached to the load and a lift mechanism having a lift cylinder connected to the load bearing frame and a cylinder rod. The lift mechanism may be structured for example to lift the load bearing frame at the start of the load movement phase. A roller assembly may be coupled to the cylinder rod of the lift mechanism where the roller assembly includes a roller frame and one or more rollers set in the roller frame. The load transporting apparatus also includes a support foot coupled to the roller frame of the roller assembly and structured to interface with the ground surface. The support foot has a length width and longitudinal centerline bisecting the width of the support foot. A travel mechanism may be coupled to the roller assembly where the travel mechanism is structured to move the roller assembly relative to the support foot during for example the load movement phase of a walking cycle. Guide bars positioned on opposite sides of the roller frame are displaced adjacent to the roller frame. The guide bars may be positioned substantially parallel with the length of the support foot. Additionally one or more biasing devices may be coupled between the guide bars and the support foot. The biasing devices may be structured to become deflected during a load movement phase where the roller assembly is non linearly displaced by the travel mechanism relative to the longitudinal center line of the support foot and structured to return the support foot to a centered position relative to the roller assembly about the longitudinal center line of the support foot during a recovery phase.

Some embodiments of the invention have been described above and in addition some specific details are shown for purposes of illustrating the inventive principles. However numerous other arrangements may be devised in accordance with the inventive principles of this patent disclosure. Further well known processes have not been described in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Thus while the invention is described in conjunction with the specific embodiments illustrated in the drawings it is not limited to these embodiments or drawings. Rather the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents that come within the scope and spirit of the inventive principles set out herein.

