---

title: System for multimedia tagging by a mobile user
abstract: A system, method, and wireless communication device that provide a mobile user with selective access to information based on a predefined trigger such as a user's vicinity. In an embodiment, selected information from a first wireless communication device of a communication group may be associated with a geographic location and stored. A portion of the information may be selectively transmitted to a second wireless communication device of the communication group when the second wireless communication device is determined to be proximate to the geographic location associated with the information. In one embodiment, the second wireless communication device may receive the information automatically based on trigger settings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08718681&OS=08718681&RS=08718681
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08718681
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130412
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 652 457 filed Jan. 5 2010 and now patented as U.S. Pat. No. 8 447 324 issued May 21 2013 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to the exchange of information using computer devices. More specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods for creating and sharing location based information on a wireless telecommunication device.

Mobile telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs and mini laptops typically receive and transmit various types of information relating to personal contacts multimedia and the like. The wide availability of mobile data networks have enabled mobile device users to remain connected to their provider networks and thus all of the data and services available via the Internet and other networks. Such mobile devices typically host a variety of applications such as video and audio applications image and audio capture devices and location determination systems such as GPS. The mobile devices may also have access to location based services such as searching and mapping functions.

Users of mobile devices typically have limited resources for providing a real time user interface that is available for quickly and efficiently sharing information with other mobile device users. For example users must typically page through numerous screens and scroll through numerous menu choices to find the information or application they are looking for. For example if a user desires to search for an eatery near their current location the user may search for and launch a browser perform a yellow pages search review the search results and read through user reviews to find a suitable eatery. As another example the user may desire to record and store comments about the eatery and share their comments with their contacts. However many mobile devices do not have the resources such as the processing power and memory to maintain a store of relevant media nor the applications and services to readily store share or access such information.

An opportunity thus exists when a mobile device is capable of receiving or transmitting information about its environment and has access to a data network.

Briefly described the present invention includes a system method and wireless communication device that provides a mobile user with selective access to information based on a predefined trigger such as a user s vicinity. In an embodiment selected information from a first wireless communication device of a communication group may be associated with a geographic location and stored. A portion of the information may then be selectively transmitted to a second wireless communication device of the communication group when the second wireless communication device is determined to be proximate to the geographic location associated with the information. In one embodiment the second wireless communication device may receive the information automatically based on trigger settings.

The present system and method are therefore advantageous in that by providing the ability to for example create and upload information such as multimedia and make the multimedia available based on a trigger such as a geographic location mobile users may easily share information regarding points of interest such as landmarks restaurants and the like.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent after review of the Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description and the Claims.

In this description the terms mobile communication device communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term group communication means a point to point or point to multipoint communication sent between wireless communication devices across true or virtual half duplex channels. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views and the articles a and the includes plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. Certain well known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments of the disclosure. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments of the disclosure without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of embodiments of the disclosure and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice this disclosure.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the disclosure or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the disclosure. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the disclosure e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates one embodiment of the system comprising one or more wireless telecommunication devices. A PTT group may be formed for sharing group media among the one or more wireless telecommunication device. The PTT group may further comprise devices such as the wireless telephone smart pager and personal digital assistant PDA with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system each wireless telecommunication device is capable of selectively directly communicating across the wireless communication network with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the plurality. For example the target set for mobile telephone can be all devices in the communication group or a subset thereof such as pager and PDA .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone informs the group communication computer device shown here as server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can share is with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. A data store shown here as file management server is also present on the server side LAN . It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In overview the system includes at least one wireless communication device such as mobile telephone that is a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices that communicate with each other in direct group communications across a wireless communication network the at least one wireless communication device configured to selectively send group directed communications to other members of the communication group . At least one group communication computer device or server is configured to store information on communication groups on the wireless communication network the information including the identity of the specific member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The group communication computer device is further configured to selectively receive group directed communications from a sending wireless communication device such as mobile telephone of a communication group and send the group directed media to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group for the sending wireless communication device.

The system can further include a data store in communication with the group communication computer device s with the group communication computer device configured to send group directed media to the data store . The data store can configured to receive the group designated media from a wireless communication device such as mobile phone and selectively permit members of the communication group for which the group directed media was sent to access the stored group directed media across the wireless communication network .

The group directed media can be graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The media can also be streaming media such as a multimedia application Powerpoint MOV file and the like . The group directed media can also be streaming media or an interactive session on another computer device on the wireless communication network such as a game hosted on data store or private bulletin board. For example participants in a game can chat via the group communication about the ongoing game. Also the group directed media could be half duplex video conferencing among members of the communication group wherein the picture of the speaker is broadcast to the other group members in substantial real time or in delay.

As is further described herein the wireless communication device can be engaged in a group communication with the member wireless communication devices of the communication group and send group directed media during the group communication in the same communication session or independently therefrom. Alternately the group directed media can be sent independently of the group communication session.

The group communication server s are connected to a wireless service providers packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PDSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However all such direct communications will occur through or at the control of the group communication computer device . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication computer device itself but the group communication computer device must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information on the group directed media to include a file preview as is more fully described herein.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open a group communication channel typically half duplex from the wireless device. The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

The PTT Client is an application that offers access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT Client includes all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as the Group Media Client . In addition to providing access to PTT services with the PTT Client the PTT Client preferably acts as an isolation layer between all PTT aware applications and the interface to the group communication computer device . In this embodiment the PTT Client maintains access to PTT services responds to group communication requests processes all PTT aware mobile operating system applications requests for PTT services processes all outgoing PTT requests collects and packages vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

The Group Media Client is a mobile operating system based application that extends PTT services for access to media types other than the traditional half duplex voice communications VoIP PTT media . The Group Media Client provides access to group media services through an external interface in one embodiment being a separate API such as a Group Media Aware API. The Group Media Aware UI is an application that may be developed entirely as a mobile operating system based application or used in combination with an AMSS interface. The Group Media Aware UI responds to user requests for group directed media services by invoking the appropriate APIs such as those from other resident PTT and group media applications . The Group Media Client services the requests from the user and informs the user the result of any group directed media request. The user can also have setting on the Group Media Client that specify how to handle an incoming notification that indicates there is a file to be downloaded from the file management server data store . For example the Group Media Client can elect to have the file download commence immediately or to allow the target user to be prompted to determine whether to download the file.

Mobile telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers typically receive create store and transmit various types of information relating to multimedia documents contacts email and the like. Such information may include image files audio files video files and text files. Such devices typically host a variety of applications such as video and audio applications image and audio capture applications and location determination systems such as GPS. The personal electronics devices may also have access to location based services such as searching and mapping functions. Furthermore with the wide availability of accessible data networks mobile device users may have ready access to their provider networks and thus all of the data and services available via the Internet and other networks.

Users of mobile devices typically have limited resources for providing a real time user interface that is available for quickly and efficiently sharing information with other users as soon as the user desires or seeks access to the information. For example users must typically page through numerous screens and scroll through numerous menu choices to find the information or application they are looking for. For example if a user desires to search for an eatery at their current location the user may search for and launch a browser application perform a search for an eatery scroll through the search results and read through user reviews to find a suitable eatery. As another example the user may desire to record and store comments about the eatery and share their comments with their contacts. However many mobile devices do not have the resources such as the processing power and memory to maintain a store of relevant media nor the applications and services to readily store or share such information. If a user desires to share information about a particular location or point of interest with a friend the user and the user s friend typically must both subscribe to an information sharing service social networking service or the like. The user must then access the site using their mobile web browser or other such application create the content that they want to share or enter the information directly into the web site and upload the information. The friend must then be notified of the existence of such a comment for the point of interest. If the friend receives the information for example as an email the friend must store the information and remember that the information exists. Alternatively the friend typically must access the same information sharing web site and access the information.

As indicated by the popularity of social networking applications and sites a large number of users are participating in various networking groups to connect with friends family and other people and to share information. For example various web sites and services may allow users to contribute reviews of places of business and tag the places of business with notes or comments. Typically a user must manually enter such comments and post them to a review service or web site. Other users must access the site or subscribe to the service or otherwise search for the information in order to access such user comments. However it would be desirable to allow for users to easily create and share such information using their mobile devices. For example it would be advantageous for mobile device users to have the ability to create and share location tagged voice notes regarding a particular location or point of interest. Furthermore it would be advantageous if such voice notes may be combined with other media types so that users can share a rich and varied set of information. For example a user may create a voice note along with a photo image and share both media objects with their mobile communities.

Additionally it would be advantageous to provide users with the ability to quickly and easily access voice reviews or comments from their friends based on the user s location and whether the user is physically in the vicinity of the point of interest associated with the review or comment. Voice audio can be one effective way of recording reviews and sharing commentaries with friends while traveling about. The use of voice for such purposes may provide a seamless method of sharing information that is consistent and congruous with the use of a mobile device. Thus for example a mobile device user may walk past a bakery and automatically be notified that the bakery offers a friend s favorite cookies by being presented with the information in the friend s recorded voice.

In the present disclosure a point of interest may be any location place of business physical object at a location and the like for which a user may desire to share a thought opinion or otherwise associate with such information. The notion of associating a piece of information with such a geographic location such as a place of interest may be referred to as geo tagging although other terms may be used to refer to the same concept.

It would be advantageous to allow users to not only geo tag information such as text based notes photos and audio notes but also to integrate such information with applications on the mobile device. For example a voice recording application on the mobile device may provide the user with an option to geo tag a voice recording upon completion of the creation of the recording.

In order to provide a location based service the geo tagging application may receive and use location data to determine where the user or the image capture device is located geographically or in reference to the user s surroundings. Furthermore the point of view of the mobile device may be tracked so that the geo tagged information may be presented in its proper perspective on the device in the case of a visually rendered media object. For example the Global Positioning System GPS may be used to provide a location of the mobile device. The position and movement of the mobile device may be determined using inertial sensors such as accelerometers if available.

In various embodiments a geo tagging application may incorporate proximity based triggers to automatically or selectively distribute the geo tagged media based on a user s position. The triggers may be based for example on an approximate distance or radius from a particular geographic point of reference. Such a point of reference may be a street address intersection city center geographic coordinates and the like. The distance or radius can be any measure of distance and may consider the accuracy of the available location information as well as the type of information. For example a general comment regarding a town may use a trigger with a large radius e.g. several miles from the town center. The triggers may be set by the user as a general setting or as a specific setting for each shared piece of information. The triggers may also be determined by the geo tagging service provider.

In an embodiment selected information from a first wireless communication device of a communication group may be associated with a geographic location and stored. The information may be stored locally on the device and transmitted via an available network and stored in an information store provided by a service provider that provides a geo tagging service or other storage means. For example the information may be transmitted to a computing device such as a server associated with the communication group. The information may be stored in a data store associated with the communication group. Alternatively the information may be forwarded to a server and or data store associated with a geo tagging service provider. The geo tagging service may then selectively transmit a portion of the information to a second wireless communication device of the communication group when the second wireless communication device is determined to be proximate to the geographic location.

In a non limiting example a mobile user may be present at a point of interest such as a restaurant. The user may press a button on the mobile device and speak a comment or review of the restaurant whereupon the comment review may be tagged to the user s geographic location. The comment review may then be made available to other users of a communication group. The other users may be members of a mobile communications network such as a PTT group or other predefined group. When a second user of the group enters the vicinity of the point of interest the comment review may be automatically transmitted to the second user s mobile device and reproduced on the mobile device using an appropriate application.

In an embodiment the geo tagging service may store the identity of the user that created uploaded the comment review. The geo tagging service may then prevent the comment review from being transmitted to the user that created the comment review when the user re enters the point of interest associated with the comment review.

Thus by providing the ability to create and upload user media based on a trigger such as a geographic location mobile users may be able to easily share information regarding objects such as landmarks or other places of interest.

The creation and sharing of a voice comment is one example illustration of the presently disclosed subject matter. Many other types of media and data can be created tagged and shared. For example pictures text video music and other media types may be created or selected tagged and stored in conjunction with or in lieu of voice notes. Moreover information other than location data may be tagged with the media. Tag data such as time of day date weather current traffic conditions proximity to other locations points of interest are but a few examples of information that may be tagged. Such data may provide opportunities to further refine the triggers for providing the data to other users or otherwise enhance the geo tagged media sharing experience.

In an embodiment a user may use an application on a mobile device to create a geo tagged voice note. The user may for example launch a geo tagging application. The user may then press the PTT button and speak as if the user were communicating with a friend over PTT. Additionally and optionally the user may take a photo write a note capture a video clip create a music clip or create some other media package and have the package geo tagged to the user s current location.

When the voice note or other media package is created the user s device may also provide a geo tag and or time stamp. Optionally the device may interact with the network to create the geo tag and or time stamp. At this point the media may be transmitted to a server via the network for further processing or storage. Additional information may be added or tagged to the media and stored. Examples of such added information include weather information when the tag was created.

Once such geo tagged information is stored other users or members of a group may be provided or be given access to this information. In an embodiment users may be provided with passive notification. For example users if enabled may be notified when they are near a location that has been tagged by a friend. The user may view the type of media that was tagged the person who tagged it and when it was tagged. Additionally or optionally the user may be provided with previews or a summary of the available information using thumbnails and the like. The user may select one or more items to view or to access additional details. The user may further be provided an option to instantly view or render the media. Additionally the user may respond to the existing media by creating their own media response using a supported media format.

As described a geo tagging service may store created media and add information to the media. In a further embodiment geo tagged user created media may be stored on a network and used to create one or more user profiles. Such information may be used for example to build a user profile and determine usage patterns which may be used to provide recommendations to users. Such recommendations may include places to eat drink workout etc. Additionally the additional information may be used to create a mobile advertising platform. Thus in another embodiment user profiles may be accessed and analyzed to determine user trends and preferences. Such information may be of tremendous value for example to advertisers and marketing agencies. For example such information may be used to determine and provide offers recommendations and coupons discounts incentives to mobile users. In one embodiment if a user has provided favorable comments for a particular establishment such information may be used to determine that the user may be interested in other similar establishments. Recommendations may then be generated and provided to the user. Furthermore such recommendations may be provided as the user enters the general vicinity of the recommended establishment.

Over the course of time the user responses may accumulate and form geo based conversations that may be viewable and accessed by the members of a given network or communications group. By way of illustration a user may visit a city and visit a pub based on a friend s recommendation accessed by a geo tagging mechanism. The user may then record their own review and upload the review as a tagged comment associated with the same location. Other users of the communications group may contribute their own geo tagged media associated with the pub. At a later time the users of the communications group may access and view all media associated with the location as a geo event or geo based conversation anchored to the pub s location.

In one embodiment a user may use an application to search for existing media tags created by members of the user s communications group. For example a user may search and view tagged media from members of a communications group on a dynamic map. As another example the user may use a web browser to access and listen to reviews read comments or view video clips associated with a geo based conversation.

In a representative embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter a location based voice centered system may be provided for exchanging information between devices of a communication group of wireless communication devices in which metadata may be added to geo tagged media in real time. Such a system may provide a user interface on the mobile device that provides quick and efficient access to the geo tagging application. For example a push of a button such as a PTT button may allow the user to record or create a comment regarding a particular location. Members of the communication group may be automatically notified of the user comment when the member enters the general vicinity of the location associated with the comment. For example a member of the communication group may thus be able to quickly capture feelings regarding a sunset thoughts on a burger or admiration for a work of art and at the push of a button her friends may have ready access to what she had to say. By thus enabling the creation and sharing of voice based geo tagged notes a new way for mobile users to explore and share their experiences may be provided.

The presently disclosed methods and systems may be used to enhance the mobile user experience in numerous ways. For example the user created media may be used to augment the images being displayed on a mobile device when the device is being used to view a location using a built in camera. Such augmented reality applications are but one way that the presently disclose subject matter may enhance the mobile user experience.

In one embodiment a new media object may be generated by providing a new media creation wizard to facilitate intuitive and efficient creation of new media objects. Such a wizard may provide for example a mechanism to select people contacts and data or media entities things. The media may also be associated with the current time value. Alternatively the user may be able to select another time value relative to the current time value. For example a user may select a person in a contact list and select a time value that may indicate a now versus later selection.

In a further embodiment media objects may be created and or modified via a website and may be uploaded via the internet. For example a web based service may provide access to a user account associated with the mobile communication device. The service may authenticate a user and provide the user with various account management functions. The user may further be able to create and modify location based information using the web service. Various media objects such as voice clips may be created and associated with a point of interest and uploaded to a server for later retrieval by members of the communications group. Once the user has created or modified such information on the website an over the airwaves download may provide the information to the handset using the various techniques disclosed herein thus being accessed when a member of the group enters the vicinity of the locations associated with the media. One example of where this may be useful is when a group member has returned from a location with numerous digital photos associated with a point of interest. The member may wish to share the photos but may first desire to review the photos and upload only selected photos.

When the mobile device s location and orientation can be determined a number of additional and useful features and services may be provided to the device. In one embodiment targeted advertisements that may be relevant to the location and local environment may be downloaded to the device whereupon the advertisements may be merged played or displayed on the device along with the geo tagged media. For example the database may include advertisement data associated with particular businesses. When a user creates a geo tagged media object associated with a particular business the advertisement data may also be provided to a subsequent user that enters the vicinity of the business.

It can be further appreciated that once a device s location and orientation can be determined any number of services may be provided related to the device s location and orientation. For example queries may be generated or prompted upon direct input from the user. In an embodiment when a user clicks on a portion of a rendered map on the mobile device a geo tagging application may interpret the user click as a request for additional information about the landmark represented by the selected portion of the rendered map. For example the user may click on the portion of the map in which a particular business is located. In other embodiments the user input may represent a push pull for information regarding the area associated with the user input. Rendering of the received information from the database may be performed through a variety of methods such as a two dimensional overlay reproduction of a sound file and the like.

In some embodiments the audio data captured by the device may be transmitted to the server for additional processing. In other embodiments the device may perform processing locally and transmit the processed audio data to the server. The device may for example comprise hardware and or software for audio processing and compression and thus save significant bandwidth in transmitting audio data over the network.

In addition to providing metadata as described in the above examples context specific requests and or actions may also be delivered to a mobile device. In one embodiment a mobile device may receive a request to provide the geo tagging service with a particular piece of information when the device is in a particular region. For example a group member may request reviews for a particular eatery. The request may be saved on the system and requests for information may be generated and transmitted by the geo tagging system when a device enters the vicinity of the eatery. The user comment may then be created uploaded transmitted to other members of the group.

It can be appreciated that the above described geo tagged information may be provided without a user having to actually enter the vicinity of the location associated with the information. Some information may be as described above requested by users and thus made available as soon as the requested information is available. Alternatively some information may be transmitted to all members of a communications group at the request of the user that creates the information.

In some embodiments the database may comprise predetermined data. The predetermined data may be provided by the service provider. For example landmarks that are not represented by user comments in the database may be identified and when a user enters the vicinity of the landmark the system may invite the user to provide a comment. The term landmark may comprise any point of reference at various granularities. For example a particular painting in an art gallery may be identified as a landmark for which a user may provide a comment.

In some cases a location may not be currently known or recognized by the geo tagging system. For example a device may be out of range of a coverage area and other location determination means may not be available. In such cases the user may be allowed to create the media information and tag the information at a later time. Additionally and optionally the user may be provided an option to manually enter the location for example entering an intersection address or map coordinates.

In some embodiments the user or an application may choose to associate selected information with a location and make such data available to other users who may enter the area at the same or a different time. Multiple users may associate different information with a single location and allow the data to be accessible to different subsets of users. For example a user may create a comment and mark the comment for availability to two or more different groups of users. In other embodiments users may not necessarily share in the same information associated with a particular location. For example a user may designate that a particular comment is available for one group but not another. Only the designated communication group will then be provided access to the comment.

In some embodiments a user may create and tag their own location information. For example a user may tag a comment regarding a new restaurant that is not yet listed in commercially available search databases. The user may enter information about the new restaurant and tag the information with general location information. The new restaurant information may then be made available to the user s communication group when they enter the vicinity of the new restaurant even though the restaurant is not yet listed on available mapping or search databases.

In an embodiment metadata may be automatically and seamlessly transmitted by the user device to supplement to the user created media. Additionally and optionally users may be prompted to provide additional information that is associated with the newly created entry.

Furthermore users may provide additional context sensitive metadata associated with a particular point of interest. For example a point of interest may present different sets of metadata that may be dependent upon the user s context a user near a restaurant may be presented with a user s comment when viewed within a mapping application while a pop up display may highlight a particular contact when viewed from a contact list .

By enabling the above described data sharing techniques the members of any type of gaming social or other type of communication group may share in the same set of common information about any type of point of interest or location by using their mobile devices.

Those skilled in the art will readily recognize that each particular processing component may be distributed and executed by the user device and servers data stores and other components in the network. For example audio data processing and compression can be handled by the device or by the server.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary non limiting mobile communications device and the user interface for the device. The device typically includes a display that may comprise an LCD or OLED display. In some embodiments the display may include touch screen capability. The device may include a keypad that may be a standard phone keypad or in other embodiments a QWERTY keypad. The device may also include navigation buttons that may further comprise up down left and right keys for navigating through the display . The navigation keys may further comprise a selection or OK key to indicate the user s selection or acknowledgment of a particular function. The device may also include soft keys that are programmable and used to select the function as indicated in an area of display near the soft key.

A geo tagging system or related systems and methods may be implemented using a variety of devices and configurations. A system for capturing voice recordings may comprise one or more audio capture devices such as a digital recorder application with an input microphone device. The device may include a digital converter digitizing an analog audio input as well as a communication link. The device may also include a program for processing audio data. Device may be any device capable of implementing the systems and or methods disclosed herein such as a smartphone PDA or any other device configured to implement a geo tagging system. Alternatively device may perform one or more aspects of a geo tagging system and work in conjunction with one or more other devices to implement a complete geo tagging system. Device may also be integrated into one or more other devices that are capable of performing other activities beyond implementing a geo tagging system. Such devices may include a personal data assistant PDA a mobile telephone a laptop or desktop computer a mobile or stationary gaming system a camera or any other device capable of implementing a geo tagging system and performing at least one other function. All such configurations and devices are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

A combination of augmented reality and mobile computing technology may be used on mobile device . Furthermore because of the limited processing and available memory on such devices it may be advantageous for the device to transmit one or more audio files via an accessible data network to a system available via the network. For example a server may provide storage and data management services for audio data transmitted by the mobile device. The server may also access a database storing media data that may be transmitted to the mobile device. Furthermore the server in addition to maintaining a database storing media data for transmission may also maintain a database storing map data for one or more geographic locations. The server and or database may operate in conjunction with server and data store of . Alternatively server and data store may include geo tagging applications and provide the service in conjunction with other group communications functions.

The mobile device may include a location determination function such as GPS or cellular based location determination. In an embodiment the location determination performed by device may be transmitted to a server. The device s location may be determined hierarchically for example beginning with a coarse location estimate and refining the initial estimate to arrive at a more precise estimate.

In one exemplary embodiment illustrated in a mobile device with one or more media capture capabilities may be configured to capture voice notes. The captured audio files may be transmitted via a wireless network to system that may comprise one or more servers hosting at least one application that receives the transmitted audio files and their associated metadata. Device may further include a location determination capability using GPS or other location determination means and may transmit the location information along with the audio data. Device may further transmit its location information on a continuous basis to system . System may further have access to data store that may comprise a database of media files and related metadata. System may monitor the location of device and may access the data store to determine if there is any stored media files that are associated with the current location of device . System may also monitor a number of such media files as mobile device approaches a geographic location. For example system may request all media files that are associated with locations within a one mile radius of the current location of mobile device . When mobile device enters for example a meter radius of a location associated with a media file the media file may be retrieved from data store . System may then transmit the retrieved media file and associated metadata to device via network whereupon the device may render the received metadata and or merge the received metadata with a currently running application.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary user interface that may be implemented on a mobile communications device providing a location map comprising personal points of interest and contacts. The display may include a title area that indicates that the current type of user interface currently presented is my locations. Various location icons may be presented in an approximate spatial or geographic fashion on the display. Other embodiments may use thumbnails or other graphic indicators as desired. Some points of contact may be presented with user IDs or other means of identifying an icon within a limited display area. For example icon may be identified with a three letter acronym or initials of a contact.

The user may be provided the ability to navigate through the display by selecting the navigation buttons . For example selection of left and right navigation buttons may scroll through different categories of locations such as those limited to a particular geographic range. Navigating with the up and down buttons may move the active display area to upper and lower levels of hierarchy. Further active areas may be provided to indicate whether the current display indicates a particular geographic range locations related only to contacts entertainment locations or other categories. Also provided may be a select or OK button that may indicate a selection by the user.

The user may select to zoom in or out by pressing the or zoom soft keys and upon which closer or farther zooming levels of the geographic features on the map may be provided on the display area . When a user presses the zoom out button the field of view may be expanded to include a larger mapping area. Likewise if the zoom button is selected the field of view may zoom in to expand the mapping view. The user s desired points of interest may be represented on the display in accordance with their relative locations on the respective mapping views.

In one embodiment the display may render a window when a media object or file may be available within the vicinity of the device. In the present example the user is notified via window that a comment is available. In one embodiment a geo tagging service may only provide to the device an indication that a media object or file is available prior to downloading the media object or file. The window may inform the user that the user may click the OK button to listen to the audio file in the present example. Alternatively the user may press the button to cancel or ignore the window. If the user selects the OK button the device may transmit an indication to the geo tagging service that the user would like to listen to the comment. The geo tagging service may then transmit the audio file to the device whereupon the device may render the audio file using an appropriate application. In other embodiments the device may provide additional or alternative notifications. For example in addition to or in lieu of the notification window the device may provide an aural indication or may vibrate. Typically the notification settings may be selected by the user as a general device setting or may be configured for specific applications.

Referring now to illustrated is an exemplary process for exchanging location based information between devices of a communication group of wireless communication devices including operations and . The illustrated operations are exemplary and do not imply a particular order. The device may be a mobile communication devices of a communication group of mobile communication devices that communicate with each other in direct group communications across a wireless communication network. Process illustrates selectively sending by the first wireless communication device information associated with a geographic location of the first wireless communication device via the wireless network. The information may be a media entity such as an image file audio file and the like. Typically the data will be captured by a capture device on the mobile unit such as a camera or voice recorder. The data may comprise a single frame or data object a series of frames or data objects or a continuous stream such as an audio stream or video stream. The information may be created by the user using an application on the mobile device. Alternatively the information may be provided by another system for receiving or processing information in which the system may be associated with the mobile user s account. Alternatively the inputs may be retrieved from the device s memory if previously created and stored.

The geographic location may be determined using a variety of methods including Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS cellular based location estimation and manual data entry. GNSS systems may include any type of satellite navigation system that provides geo spatial positioning including GPS GLONASS Beidou COMPASS and Galileo.

The location may be estimated using an initial coarse estimation of the location to determine an initial set of information that may be relevant to the coarse location estimate. In an embodiment the magnitude of the initial search radius may be determined by the information source used for the first location estimate. For example if the first location estimate was determined using GPS the search radius may be ten to thirty meters. If the first location estimate was determined using cellular based techniques the search radius may be hundreds or thousands of meters. However in some embodiments the magnitude of an initial search radius may be determined using factors other than the range or accuracy of the information source. For example in the case of GPS although the range of accuracy may be ten to thirty meters the GPS may not operate indoors. In this case a GPS equipped mobile device in an unknown environment may for example send the server the GPS coordinates it last acquired when it was outdoors. The server may then consider areas near those GPS coordinates yet beyond the range of GPS accuracy in attempting to search for relevant information.

In some embodiments a service provider may populate a database with media objects for popular points of interest. The pre populated media objects may be periodically updated by the service provider. In some embodiments a service provider may accept advertisement like media objects for a fee or on a subscription basis.

In some embodiments the media objects may include images and other media types that are captured or created by users. For example users may generate text notes image files or audio files. The user generated media objects may be associated with a particular landmark or geographic feature. Geo tagging may be established using an appropriate application on the user device. In some embodiments the association may be made automatically based on the user context. For example the user may identify a portion of a currently rendered image using a cameraphone application and activate a geo tagging operation by clicking the OK button or other appropriate means and the application may launch a context sensitive menu that allows the user to geo tag the image. Alternatively the user may navigate to an existing file on the device to associate with the current location. The media object may then be uploaded via an available network. In some embodiments the media objects may not be associated with a specific landmark but may instead be anchored to a general region.

Access to the information may further be defined by the user and included in metadata transmitted along with the information. Some information may be generally accessible to any other user that has access to the geo tagging service. Other information may be accessible to identified users or users within an identified group via social networking communications group or other services. Furthermore information may be associated with specific applications such as game applications.

Process illustrates receiving by the second wireless communication device at least a portion of the information when it is determined that the second wireless communication device is proximate to the geographic location.

Process illustrates selectively sending by the group communication server the information to the second wireless communication device when the second wireless communication device is determined to be proximate to the geographic location.

Any of the above mentioned aspects can be implemented in methods systems non transitory computer readable media or any type of manufacture. For example per a non transitory computer readable medium can store thereon computer executable instructions for exchanging location based information between devices of a communication group of wireless communication devices. Such non transitory media can comprise a first subset of instructions for selectively sending first information associated with a first geographic location of a mobile communication device to a group communication server via a wireless network and a second subset of instructions for receiving second information from the group communication server when it is determined that the mobile communications device is proximate to a second geographic location wherein the second information is selected by a source wireless communication device of the communication group when the source wireless communication device is proximate to the second geographic location . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that additional sets of instructions can be used to capture the various other aspects disclosed herein and that the presently disclosed subsets of instructions can vary in detail per the present disclosure.

In view of the methods being executable on a mobile device and other computer platforms the method can accordingly be performed by a program resident in a non transitory computer readable medium where the program directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the steps of the method. The non transitory computer readable medium can be the memory of the server or can be in a connective database. Further the non transitory computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless communications device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Non transitory computer readable media includes computer storage media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of non transitory computer readable media.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

