---

title: File downloads using broadband wireless multicast
abstract: A user device receives, from an application server, a catalog of available content. The catalog of available content includes content available for delivery via multicast over a broadband wireless spectrum. The user device provides, to the application server, an indication of a user's selection of particular content available for delivery via multicast over the broadband wireless spectrum. The user device receives, from a content server, the particular content via a multicast transmission over the broadband wireless spectrum. The particular content includes multiple individual segment files. The user device detects a corrupted or missing segment file from the multiple individual segment files and requests, from the content server, a replacement segment file corresponding to the corrupt or missing segment file. The user device receives, from the content server, the replacement segment file via a unicast transmission to provide a complete set of segment files for the particular content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09532210&OS=09532210&RS=09532210
owner: Verizon and Redbox Digital Entertainment Services, LLC
number: 09532210
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131126
---
Over the top OTT video delivery is becoming increasingly popular for customers of service providers. However bandwidth limitations and particularly wireless bandwidth limitations can hinder services when a large number of customers e.g. in a local community tries to download and watch the same movie or show using OTT video delivery. Unlike traditional TV systems where movies are delivered using broadcasting signals OTT service today uses dedicated data channels from a backend server to customer devices to delivery video. If there is popular content such as a new show a new movie or a popular event a majority of users may want to watch it thus causing network connection congestion due to high demand for one to one data connections.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and methods described herein may use a cellular multicast channel to download popular content to mobile devices and provide for file correction of the multicast content through a one to one connection e.g. unicast local wireless network etc. .

According to an implementation a mobile device may schedule a video download such as a new movie or recent television episode that is available for multicast over a broadband wireless spectrum. The requested content may be downloaded to the mobile device via multicast at a time when the network load is low e.g. overnight . The content may be downloaded as segment files and each segment may be verified for correctness by the mobile device based on a file map for the particular content. If a particular segment fails then the mobile device may initiate a one to one connection e.g. unicast over a cellular Wi Fi Bluetooth or wired connection to replace the particular segment file from the content server.

Provider content system may provide among other services digital video content available for downloading to user devices . For example provider content system may provide a service subscription that includes entitlements to access a particular library of media for downloading e.g. provided from content delivery system . In one implementation the library of downloadable media may include a subset from a larger collection of content. Interactions between application server and user devices may be performed for example using hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or secure HTTP HTTPS via access network .

Application server may manage authentication selection of content authorization for downloading content and or purchase of content by a user of user devices . Application server may also link to other backend systems to support applications residing on user devices . For example application server may communicate with customer profile and billing system to authenticate a user who desires to purchase rent or subscribe to digital content e.g. available through content delivery system .

In one implementation application server may permit user devices to download a video application that enables a user to find content of interest and play downloaded or streaming content. Once user device is registered via application server the downloaded video application may enable user device to present to a user of user device information received from application server in an interactive format to allow selection of particular content. Furthermore the video application may coordinate with content delivery system and license server in authorizing user device to access the selected content.

Application server may provide a catalog of content e.g. both digital content and or physical assets for a user of user devices to consume e.g. buy rent or subscribe . In one implementation application server may collect and or present listings of content available to user devices . For example application server may receive digital content metadata such as lists or categories of content from content delivery system . Application server may use the content metadata to provide currently available content options to user devices .

Application server may receive a login request associated with a user and may initiate a login process. Additionally or alternatively application server may request receive device information e.g. a registration token associated with user device via content delivery system and may compare the device information with stored information to validate authenticate user device . Depending on the implementation the stored information may reside in application server customer profile and billing system etc.

Content delivery system may aggregate content and content metadata process content and distribute content. For example content delivery system may transcode content into a digital format suitable for consumption on particular user devices . In some implementations content delivery system may include a transcoder hardware or software to convert a video file from one format to another e.g. from one bit rate to another bit rate from one resolution to another from one standard to another from one file size to another etc . Content delivery system may also encrypt data.

License server may issue validate and or enforce digital rights management DRM licenses to a client such as an application running on one of user devices . In some implementations license server may determine entitlement rights and or other authorization parameters via interfaces of application server . Such information may be used to authorize a user to access particular content e.g. issue a license to user device and control limit the number of concurrent viewing sessions and or downloads for the user.

MBMS device may deliver digital content from content delivery system to user devices via for example a content delivery network CDN which includes portions of provider content network and portions of access network . MBMS device may provide a point to multipoint interface that delivers multicast services to user devices . The MBMS device may use IP multicast addresses for the IP flows that can be received simultaneously by users of user devices who have subscribed to and have joined the particular multicast group associated with a content selection. In one implementation MBMS device may include a Broadcast Multicast Service Center.

Customer profile and billing system may store user profile information for users e.g. users of user devices . The user profile information may include various information regarding a user such as login information e.g. a user identifier and a password billing information address information types of services to which the user has subscribed a list of digital physical content purchased by the user a list of video content rented by the user a list of video content to which the user has subscribed a user device identifier e.g. a media player identifier a mobile device identifier a set top box identifier a personal computer identifier for user device or the like. Application server may use the user profile information from customer profile and billing system to authenticate a user and may update the user profile information based on the user s activity.

Customer profile and billing system may also manage charging users for services provided via provider content system . Customer profile and billing system may perform credit card checks e.g. for new subscriptions and or trial subscriptions and process payments for subscriptions with provider content system . For example for new accounts customer profile and billing system may initiate credit card checks and receive credit card verification from an external billing entity such as a credit card payment system e.g. for a credit card account associated with the user or a bank payment system e.g. for a debit account associated with the user associated with the user and or user device via an external payment API not shown . For paying e.g. non trial subscribers customer profile and billing system may also request and receive payments from the external billing entity e.g. for monthly subscription fees etc. associated with an account .

Private network may include for example one or more private IP networks that use a private IP address space. Private network may include a local area network LAN an intranet a private wide area network WAN etc. In one implementation private network may implement one or more Virtual Private Networks VPNs for providing communication between for example any of application server content delivery system license server and customer profile and billing system . Private network may be protected separated from other networks such as public network by a firewall. Although shown as a single element in private network may include a number of separate networks.

User device may include a computational or communication device that is capable of communicating via access network . User device may enable a user to view video content or interact with another user device or a video display device e.g. a set top box and or television . User device may include for example a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. a smartphone that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a tablet computer a personal computer a laptop computer a gaming console an Internet television or other types of computation or communication devices.

In one implementation user device may include a video application that enables user device to communicate with for example application server content delivery system and or license server . The video application may permit a user of user device to login to an account access catalog information submit an order for content to download receive downloaded content and or manage correction of downloaded content.

Access network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as a cellular network a satellite network a fiber optic network a private WAN the public switched telephone network PSTN or a combination of the Internet and a private WAN etc. that is used to transport data. Although shown as a single element in access network may include a number of separate networks that function to provide services to user devices . In one implementation access network may provide for multicast delivery of content from provider content system to user devices via a wireless network e.g. a broadband wireless network such as a long term evolutions LTE network and provide for unicast delivery of individual content segments from provider content system to user devices .

Content provider may include any type or form of content provider to provide content to provider content network for distribution. For example content provider may include free television broadcast providers e.g. broadcast providers such as NBC CBS ABC and or Fox and for pay television broadcast providers e.g. TNT ESPN HBO Cinemax CNN etc. that permit content to be streamed and or downloaded. Content provider may also include on demand content providers e.g. video on demand VOD providers pay per view PPV providers etc. .

In the particular arrangement and number of components of network are illustrated for simplicity. In practice there may be more application servers content delivery systems license servers MBMS devices customer profile and billing systems user devices networks and or content providers . Components of system may be connected via wired and or wireless links.

Bus may permit communication among the components of device . Processing unit may include one or more processors or microprocessors that interpret and execute instructions. In other implementations processing unit may be implemented as or include one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or the like.

Memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processing unit a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processing unit and or some other type of magnetic or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive for storing information and or instructions.

Input device may include a device that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse a pen a microphone one or more biometric mechanisms and the like. Output device may include a device that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker etc.

Communication interface may include a transceiver that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with other devices such as other devices of system . Such other devices of system each includes its respective communication interface to achieve such communication.

As described herein device may perform certain operations in response to processing unit executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may include a tangible non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows exemplary components of device in other implementations device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than those depicted in . As an example in some implementations a display may not be included in device . In these situations device may be a headless device that does not include an input device. Alternatively or additionally one or more components of device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Video download manager application may include hardware and software components. The software components may be downloaded from application server for example when user device contacts application server to register for service or to request content from via content delivery system . Video download application may coordinate with application server and content delivery system to dynamically manage downloading perform segment file verification and request corrected replacement segment files when necessary.

Registration module may participate in registration of user device . For example registration module may initiate a registration of user device with application server . To start a registration registration module may send a message to application server to determine whether user device is registered e.g. recognized by application server as a device that can receive content from content delivery system . The message may include an identifier also known as a client ID that is associated with and distributed with video download application . If user device has not been registered with application server registration module may receive an activation code and an activation uniform resource locator URL to allow a user of user device to manually enter registration information for user device . Upon successful registration application server may return a globally unique registration token to registration module . Registration module may store the registration token the activation code and or the client ID for subsequent login attempts.

Selection interface may provide a user interface to view catalog items may transmit user selections to application server schedule receiving of multicast downloads etc. Selection interface may enable a user to request a list of available content e.g. digital content and select from the list of available content. When a user selects particular content via selection interface application server may begin to download metadata and or download information e.g. a particular time format and or URL for a multicast download for the selected content for use by video download application . Selection interface may start the download process by working with lower layer application programmable interfaces APIs to connect to the multicast channel and be ready to receive data at the scheduled multicast time.

In another implementation selection interface may also include an account login interface. For example selection interface may request from application server a list of content available for downloading and may present the list of content to a user of user device . Selection interface may include an interactive client interface that allows a user to provide input such as user passwords preferences and selections from the list of available content. In one implementation selection interface may indicate a user s selection e.g. from the catalog to application server and in return receive specific information to obtain the selected content via multicast.

Digital entitlement client may acquire licenses for content that are selected by a user for downloading or playing at user device . In one example digital entitlement client may send a request for a license to license server . The request may include all or a portion of device registration data e.g. registration token from registration module . If digital entitlement client receives a license file for the selected content from license server digital entitlement client may store the license file. The license file may include a decryption key for example to decrypt the selected content in instances where the particular content has been encrypted for to avoid unauthorized copying or for other reasons.

File verification unit may receive content downloads e.g. from content delivery system via MBMS in segments or chunks . For each segment file verification unit may perform a checksum or signature verification. In one implementation file verification unit may use metadata received in response to selection of particular content via selection interface to confirm all segments for a particular content selection are received. That is signature or checksum information can be delivered using a normal unicast channel or Wi Fi connection to application server through a landline Internet connection. In another implementation a file map or other metadata may be provided as part of the multicast download of the selected content to use in confirming that all segments for a particular content selection are received. If a particular segment is missing or incomplete file verification unit may signal correction manager to obtain the missing or incomplete segment. For example file verification unit may create a log of missing segment s from the multicast download and provide the log to correction manager . File verification unit may store verified chunks in file storage or another memory location of user device .

Correction manager may receive a failure indication e.g. from file verification unit that one or more segments is missing incomplete from selected content that was provided via multicast download. In response to the failure indication correction manager may request a unicast download of the appropriate segments. For example if file verification unit reports a failed segment correction manager may submit a request to content delivery service to obtain the failed segment. In one implementation correction manager may obtain a URL through which to generate a request for the failed segment from a file map or other metadata associated with the selected content. For example metadata obtained by selection interface and or file verification unit may include a URL that correction manager may to use to obtain individual segments associated with the selected content. Correction manager may obtain the appropriate segment via the unicast channel to repair the downloaded multicast content. Correction manager may store corrective segments in file storage or another memory location of user device along with the verified segments stored by file verification unit .

Media player may decode and play content that is downloaded from content delivery service . Media player may output the decoded video to output components e.g. a display speakers etc. of output device of user device .

File storage may store the set of segment files for selected content that were received via multicast and if necessary unicast download. In one implementation file storage may implement segment file deletions e.g. after all segments are viewed after an expiration time etc. in accordance with a user s particular subscription terms.

Although shows exemplary functional components of user device in other implementations user device may include fewer components different components or additional components than those depicted in . For example user device may include a user profile component to track user viewing history preferences and or account activity. Alternatively or additionally one or more functional components of user device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of user device .

As shown in user device may receive an application download from application server . Application download may include for example video download application media player and or other components. In one implementation application download may be initiated during a registration process of user device with application server to subscribe for services from provider content network .

User device may also be authenticated and receive a catalog of content as indicated by reference number . For example user device e.g. selection interface may provide login credentials to application server . Application server may verify the login credentials and if approved may provide a catalog of available content to user device . The catalog may include scheduled content such as for example a popular show a popular movie or a major event that is projected to have high demand at the time the schedule content becomes available.

User device may receive a user s selection of particular scheduled content and may provide an indication of the selection to application server . Application server may receive selection and in response provide a file map to user device . File map may include metadata about the selected content including for example the number of segment files the file format the size of the complete file set a URL for obtaining corrective segments etc. In another implementation information of file map may instead be included with each available content item as part of the catalog listing e.g. reference . Assuming the selection is for a multicast channel download user device may schedule the download. The download may be scheduled for example at provider content network according to the program broadcast time and or identification of non peak use times e.g. for access network or portions thereof .

At the scheduled time MBMS device may begin distributing multicast content to particular devices including user device that have selected the particular scheduled content. In one implementation provider content network may provide a separate multicast channel of the same content for different content formats. For example multicast content may include a file download that is compatible with a platform e.g. a particular combination of hardware software of some user devices e.g. user devices with an Android platform while another multicast download may be used for other types of user devices e.g. user devices with an iOS platform . The different multicast content downloads may be scheduled for distribution simultaneously or at separate times.

Multicast content may be distributed as discrete segment files. User device e.g. file verification unit may receive the individual segment files verify each segment file and store each segment file to a local memory e.g. file storage . In one implementation each segment file of multicast content may be encrypted and require a license decryption key not shown to allow user device to present the content.

If user device detects that a particular segment file of multicast content is corrupted or missing e.g. based on file map or other content metadata user device may initiate a correction by sending an error indication to content delivery system . Error indication may be provided to content delivery system using for example a one to one connection. The one to one connection may be initiated using a URL or another type of link that is included in file map or other content metadata associated with selection . In one implementation error indication may include for example a unique segment file identifier that enables content delivery system to identify the particular segment file that was identified as corrupted or missing.

In response to error indication content delivery system may provide a corrected segment to user device . Corrected segment may include for example a segment file to replace the particular segment file indicated in error indication . Corrected segment may be provided to user device for example via unicast delivery or a one to one communication session. User device may receive corrected segment and replace the particular segment file that was corrupted or missing with corrected segment file .

Separate from delivery of multicast content license server may provide a license file to user device . For example license file may be delivered using a different e.g. non multicast channel when a user starts to view consume the segment files from the local memory e.g. file storage . License file may include for example information to unlock encrypted content for user device e.g. media player to play.

Although shows exemplary communications within network portion in other implementations network portion may include fewer communications different communications and or additional communications than those depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of network portion may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .

Process may include storing a video download application block initiating a login procedure to access content block and receiving a catalog of available content block . For example user device may receive and store video download application . Video download application may include a user interface to permit a user to login to application server . Upon a successful login process application server may provide a catalog of content available for selection by the user.

Process may also include providing an indication of a content selection for delivery via multicast block and scheduling a time to receive the selected content via the multicast download block . For example user device may provide to the application server an indication of a user s selection of particular content available for delivery via multicast over a broadband wireless spectrum e.g. an LTE network . Based on the information from the catalog for example user device may schedule a time to receive the particular content from content delivery system via the multicast transmission. In one implementation user device may also receive a file map for the particular content.

Process may also include receiving the selected content as segment files block . For example user device may receive from content delivery system the particular content via a multicast transmission over the broadband wireless spectrum. The particular content may include multiple individual segment files. In one implementation the multicast transmission may include the particular content in a format configured specifically for a platform of user device .

Process may further include detecting one or more corrupt i.e. corrupted or missing segment files block and requesting replacement segment files for the one or more corrupt or missing segment files block . For example user device may detect a corrupt or missing segment from the multiple individual file segments received from the multicast transmission. User device may request a replacement segment corresponding to the corrupt or missing segment from content delivery system . The request may be directed to content delivery system using a URL obtained in either of metadata associated with the catalog of available content or the file map. The request may include among other information a unique identifier for the particular corrupt or missing segment.

Process may additionally include receiving the one or more replacement segment files via a unicast transmission block and adding the one or more replacement segment files to form a complete set of segment files for the selected content block . For example user device may receive the replacement segment file from content delivery system via a unicast transmission. User device may add the replacement segment file to the multiple individual file segments so as to form a locally stored set of file segments for the particular content that can be viewed at any time by the user.

Referring to a wireless distribution server which may be for example a device in content delivery system and or MBMS may be configured to provide the show e.g. in a format for a particular mobile platform for distribution via LTE multicast at the time the show is made available for on demand viewing e.g. three hours after the original broadcast . The LTE multicast may include distribution via numerous base stations Evolved Node Bs or eNodeBs such as base station . Devices such as user devices and can download the show by tuning to the broadcast channel to receiving data chunk by chunk e.g. segment files at a specific time.

The title format multicast download time a URL for corrections and other metadata may be published to the content catalog that is made available to users via application server not shown in so that users can browse search and bookmark to download watch. An application e.g. video download application on user devices can schedule the download for the show according to the scheduled availability times. As another example if a new movie is coming provider content network can allow users to bookmark the movie for download when it is available.

Assume in the example of that user devices and have the same operating platform and have both been scheduled e.g. using their respective download manager applications to download the show when it becomes available. At the scheduled availability time wireless distribution server may provide the multicast show as separate segment files. User devices and e.g. using their respective download manager applications simultaneously receive and download the show.

Assume further that user device downloads one segment file X from multicast show that is corrupted and that user device downloads a different segment file Y from multicast show that is corrupted. As indicated by reference user device may use the URL for corrections e.g. as included in the catalog information or a separate file map to initiate communications with wireless distribution server . Wireless distribution server may provide a unicast replacement segment file X to user device to complete the show download to user device . As shown in communications may include a different type of communications medium e.g. Wi Fi wired etc. than used for receiving multicast show thereby avoiding need for and use of base station . Similarly as indicated by reference user device may use the same URL for corrections to initiate communications with wireless distribution server . Wireless distribution server may provide a unicast replacement segment file Y to user device to complete the show download to user device . In contrast with user device user device may use the same type of communications medium e.g. cellular service through base station as used for receiving multicast show .

Once the downloaded show is saved onto either of user devices and a notification that the download is successful or failed can be sent to that user s email or a message center associated with video download application . If successful a user can play the show at any time from the local memory of its user device .

After a user watches the downloaded content the content can be deleted from the memory of user device . In one implementation the viewed content may be deleted automatically in a manner similar to how a DVR movie is deleted from its recording memory after a user s review. In other implementations the user may have the option to keep some content for future viewing. However the user may not be able to receive additional content if the memory of user device is full.

According to systems and methods described herein a user device may receive from an application server a catalog of available content. The catalog of available content may include content available for delivery via multicast over a broadband wireless spectrum such as LTE multicast. The user device may provide to the application server an indication of a user s selection of particular content available for delivery via multicast over the broadband wireless spectrum. The user device may receive from a content server the particular content via a multicast transmission over the broadband wireless spectrum. The particular content may include multiple individual segment files. The user device may detect a corrupt or missing segment file from the multiple individual segment files and may request from the content server a replacement segment file corresponding to the corrupt or missing segment file. The user device may receive from the content server the replacement segment file via a unicast transmission to provide a complete set of segment files for the particular content.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense. For example while series of blocks have been described with respect to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that different aspects of the description provided above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of these aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement these aspects based on the description herein.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as a component or system that performs one or more functions. These components systems may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a and one of is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

