---

title: Conference multiplexing
abstract: Methods, products, apparatuses, and systems may provide at least multiplexed audio for a plurality of conferences. A conference attendee may simultaneously listen to the plurality of conferences via the multiplexed audio. Audio corresponding only to a respective conference of the plurality of conferences may be provided to another conference attendee having access to the respective conference. The multiplexed audio may be blocked from one or more other attendees. In addition, a conference operation may be implemented at any time to add a conference, delete a conference, select a subset of conferences, and/or rejoin conferences.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09124707&OS=09124707&RS=09124707
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09124707
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130724
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate conference multiplexing. More particularly embodiments relate to providing multiplexed audio for a plurality of conferences wherein the multiplexed audio may be provided to a requesting attendee having access to each of the plurality of conferences causing the requesting attendee to simultaneously listen to the plurality of conferences via the multiplexed audio and wherein audio corresponding only to a respective conference of the plurality of conferences may be provided to another conference attendee having access to the respective conference.

A conference attendee may need to split an original conference into subgroups to listen to more than one conference since each conference attendee may not have control to modify a conference e.g. add a conference delete a conference etc. as desired. Moreover a conference attendee that is uninterested and or unauthorized in a conference may be unnecessarily forced to participate join listen and or contribute in the conference when one or more other attendees wish to merge conferences. Accordingly the conference attendee may experience inconvenience when accessing conferences.

Embodiments may include a method involving providing multiplexed audio for a plurality of conferences to a requesting attendee having access to each of the plurality of conferences to cause the requesting attendee to simultaneously listen to the plurality of conferences via the multiplexed audio. The method may include providing audio corresponding only to a respective conference of the plurality of conferences to another conference attendee having access to the respective conference.

Embodiments may include a method involving providing audio of a first conference in response to authentication data corresponding to the first conference from a requesting attendee. The method may include holding the first conference and prompting for a conference operation in response to a hold key code. In addition the method may include adding audio of a second conference in response to authentication data corresponding to the second conference when the conference operation involves adding a conference. The method may also include providing multiplexed audio for a plurality of conferences including the first conference and the second conference in response to a release key code wherein the multiplexed audio is provided to the requesting attendee having access to each of the plurality of conferences causing the requesting attendee to simultaneously listen to the plurality of conferences via the multiplexed audio and wherein audio corresponding only to a respective conference of the plurality of conferences is provided to another conference attendee having access to the respective conference.

The method may include one or more of deleting audio of the second conference when the conference operation involves deleting a conference and providing audio of the first conference in response to the release key code. The method may include selecting a subset of the plurality of conferences in response to a selection key code and to identification data corresponding to each conference included in the subset. The method may also include one or more of muting audio of each conference excluded in the subset and communicating audio originating from the requesting attendee with each conference included in the subset. The method may include rejoining each conference excluded in the subset with each conference included in the subset in response to a rejoin key code wherein the audio of each conference excluded in the subset is unmuted. The method may include blocking the multiplexed audio from one or more other conference attendees.

Embodiments may include a computer program product having a computer readable storage medium and computer usable code stored on the computer readable storage medium. If executed by a processor the computer usable code may cause a computer to provide multiplexed audio for a plurality of conferences to a requesting attendee having access to each of the plurality of conferences to cause the requesting attendee to simultaneously listen to the plurality of conferences via the multiplexed audio wherein audio corresponding only to a respective conference of the plurality of conferences is to be provided to another conference attendee having access to the respective conference.

Embodiments may include a computer program product having a computer readable storage medium and computer usable code stored on the computer readable storage medium. If executed by a processor the computer usable code may cause a computer to provide audio of a first conference in response to authentication data corresponding to the first conference from a requesting attendee. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to hold the first conference and prompt for a conference operation in response to a hold key code. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to add audio of a second conference in response to authentication data corresponding to the second conference when the conference operation is to involve adding a conference. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer provide multiplexed audio for a plurality of conferences including the first conference and the second conference in response to a release key code wherein the multiplexed audio is to be provided to the requesting attendee having access to each of the plurality of conferences to cause the requesting attendee to simultaneously listen to the plurality of conferences via the multiplexed audio and wherein audio corresponding only to a respective conference of the plurality of conferences is to be provided to another conference attendee having access to the respective conference.

The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to one or more of delete audio of the second conference when the conference operation is to involve deleting a conference and provide audio of the first conference in response to the release key code. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to select a subset of the plurality of conferences in response to a selection key code and to identification data corresponding to each conference to be included in the subset. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to one or more of mute audio of each conference to be excluded in the subset and communicate audio originating from the requesting attendee with each conference to be included in the subset. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to rejoin each conference excluded in the subset with each conference included in the subset in response to a rejoin key code and wherein the audio of each conference excluded in the subset is to be unmuted. The computer usable code if executed may also cause a computer to block the multiplexed audio from one or more other conference attendees.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

It may be valuable to allow every conference attendee to simultaneously listen to a plurality of conferences which are of interest to simultaneously listen to a plurality of conferences in which the attendee has access e.g. is invited to join has an access code to join is authorized to join etc. and so on or combinations thereof. In addition it may be valuable to minimize a need to split an original conference into subgroups since each conference attendee may have the control to modify a conference e.g. add a conference delete a conference etc. as desired. Moreover it may be valuable to not unnecessarily force a conference attendee that is uninterested and or unauthorized in a conference to participate join listen and or contribute in the conference when one or more other attendees wish to simultaneously listen to more than one conferences including the conference.

Referring now to a scheme is shown to provide at least multiplexed audio for a plurality of conferences and or to facilitate a conference operation according to an embodiment. Each of the conferences may include a variety of functionality such as audio functionality video functionality text functionality e.g. Short Message Service instant message IM text functionality and so on or combinations thereof. Each of the conferences may be hosted by a conference service which may include any entity e.g. any apparatus operable to facilitate communication between two or more parties e.g. attendees participating in a conference. The conference service may provide communication between the parties using any communication protocol. In one example the conference service may provide communication using H.323 Real Time Transfer Protocol RTP Session Initiation Protocol SIP Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP Signaling System No. 7 SS7 CCSS7 CCITT7 CCIS7 N7 and so on or combinations thereof. Accordingly the conference service may host a teleconference a video conference a web conference a voice over internet protocol VoIP conference and so on or combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the conference service includes a conference controller such as a server an application a plug in e.g. via an application programming interface API and so on or combinations thereof. It should be understood that the conference controller may include a conference controller user interface e.g. a command line interface a graphical user interface GUI a hardwired keypad interface etc. which may be utilized to access one or more configurable settings to facilitate conference multiplexing. The settings may include options for a communication protocol e.g. RTP etc. for a key code e.g. hold key code modification key code release key code modification key code map key code etc. for authentication data e.g. access codes etc. for a prompt e.g. prompt for data for key codes etc. for identification data e.g. a sequence number etc. for an operation e.g. hold modification release etc. for audio e.g. multiplex audio respective audio mute communicate etc. and so on or combinations thereof.

Conference attendees may access one or more of the plurality of conferences via respective user interfaces. In the illustrated example a conference attendee e.g. requesting attendee utilizes a user interface and another conference attendee e.g. other attendee utilizes a user interface . The user interfaces may include any interface such as a command line interface a graphical user interface GUI a hardwired keypad interface and so on or combinations thereof. It should be understood that the user interfaces may include the same and or similar functionality as the conference controller user interface described above. The user interfaces may include for example a conference device such as a teleconferencing device e.g. a public switched telephone network PSTN telephone a VoIP device e.g. a VoIP telephone a SIP device e.g. a SIP telephone a personal computer e.g. a tablet a notebook etc. a mobile device e.g. a smart phone a web terminal e.g. a device including a web browser a video conferencing terminal e.g. a device including a camera an application a plug in e.g. via an API and so on or combinations thereof.

In one example the conference attendees may utilize the user interfaces to establish and or maintain a connection with the conference service over a communication channel such as a transmission control protocol TCP channel a user datagram protocol UDP channel a public switched telephone network PSTN channel and so on or combinations thereof. For example the conference attendees may dial a single conference number using the user interfaces and enter the access code corresponding to each conference the attendees wish to join. The conference attendees may also dial separate conference numbers using the user interfaces and enter the access code corresponding to each conference the attendees wish to join. In the illustrated example the conference service and the user interface establish and or maintain a connection using communication data which may include a TCP SYNC a TCP ACK an UDP ACK a dual tone multi frequency DTMF number and so on or combinations thereof. It should be understood that a similar connection may be established and or maintained between the conference controller and the user interface .

In the illustrated example the user interface issues authentication data to the conference controller when the connection is established which may correspond to a first conference the requesting attendee wishes to join. The authentication data may include for example an access code such as a pin number a bridge number a password and so on or combinations thereof. The requesting attendee may enter the authentication data by inputting an access code for the first conference at the user interface . The authentication data may be issued in response to a prompt not shown described below. The conference controller may identify the authentication data . For example the conference controller may determine that the authentication data is preset authentication data e.g. a preset value may determine that the authentication data includes a configuration e.g. number type etc. consistent with the configuration of authentication data e.g. an access code of four numbers 1234 and so on or combinations thereof. The conference controller may identify the authentication data for example to provide access to the first conference to identify an encountered key code temporally located before and or after the authentication data and so on or combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the authentication data causes the conference controller to provide audio which corresponds to the first conference. In one example the requesting attendee may utilize the user interface to dial a conference number e.g. a single 800 number to establish a connection with the conference service and enter a corresponding access code e.g. a pin number a bridge number etc. for the first conference to access e.g. listen to participate in etc. the first conference. It should be understood that the conference controller may provide any data whether multiplexed or not for the first conference such as video data text data web page data presentation data spreadsheet data and so on or combinations thereof. Accordingly the requesting attendee may be placed in the first conference and the conference controller may provide at least audio of the first conference in response to the authentication data corresponding to the first conference.

In the illustrated example the user interface issues a hold key code to the conference controller . The hold key code may include a key sequence of one or more keys e.g. 1 etc. . In one example the requesting attendee may enter the hold key code by inputting the key sequence of the hold code at the user interface . The hold key code may cause the conference controller to place the first conference on hold. In addition the hold key code may cause the conference controller to mute the first conference. The hold key code may also cause the conference controller to respond with a prompt . A prompt such as the prompt may include a dialog having instructions to prompt for any data. For example the prompt may include a dialog having instructions to prompt for data corresponding to one or more conference operations such as a modification operation including an add operation a delete operation a select operation a rejoin operation and so on or combinations thereof. The instructions may include any data type such as audio data video data text data and so on or combinations thereof.

In one example the dialog may include instructions such as Enter 2 to modify a conference Enter 3 to release a hold and so on or combinations thereof. In another example such as when the key code 2 is entered to modify a conference the dialog may include instructions directed to a type of modification operation such as Enter 4 to add a conference Enter 5 to delete a conference Enter 6 to select a subset of conferences Enter 7 to rejoin conferences and so on or combinations thereof. It should be understood that a prompt such as the prompt is optional and that any key code may be input from the user interface independently of any prompt. For example the requesting attendee may enter the key code 1 utilizing the user interface to perform a hold operation involving holding the first conference independently of the prompt may enter the key code 2 and or the key code 4 utilizing the user interface to perform an add operation involving adding a conference independently of the prompt and so on or combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the user interface issues an add operation key code e.g. 4 to the conference controller to add a second conference. The conference controller may respond with a prompt not shown for authentication data corresponding to the second conference. The prompt may include a dialog having instructions such as Enter authentication data for the conference. It should be understood that prompt for the authentication data corresponding to the second conference is optional and that the authentication data may be input from the user interface independently of any prompt.

In one example the requesting attendee may enter the authentication data by inputting an access code for the second conference at the user interface . In another example the requesting attendee may dial a conference number e.g. an 800 number corresponding to the second conference and then enter the authentication data corresponding to the second conference at the user interface . The conference controller may identify the authentication data and or the conference number by for example determining that the data encountered when the first conference is on hold is preset authentication data e.g. a preset value includes a configuration e.g. number type etc. consistent with the configuration of authentication data e.g. an access code of four numbers 5678 includes a configuration consistent with a conference number e.g. conference number of nine number 800123456 and so on or combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the user interface issues a release key code . The release key code may include a key sequence of one or more keys e.g. 3 etc. . The requesting attendee may for example enter the release key code by inputting the key sequence of the release key code at the user interface . In one example the prompt for the authentication data may include a prompt not shown for the release key code . For example the prompt may include a dialog having instructions such as Enter authentication data for the conference followed by 3. In another example the prompt for the release code may be separate from the prompt for authentication data . For example the conference controller may automatically issue the prompt for the release key code when the conference controller identifies that the authentication data has ended. It should be understood that the prompt for the release key code is optional and that the release key code may be input from the user interface independently of any prompt.

The release key code may cause the conference controller to release the hold on first conference. The release key code may also cause the conference controller to provide at least multiplexed audio to the requesting attendee for a plurality of conferences including the first conference and the second conference. In addition any other data for the plurality of conferences may be provided to the requesting attendee whether multiplexed or not such as video data text data web page data presentation data spreadsheet data and so on or combinations thereof. In the illustrated example the conference controller provides at least the multiplexed audio to the requesting attendee having access to each of the plurality of conferences e.g. access to the first conference and the second conference via the user interface . The multiplexed audio causes the requesting attendee to simultaneously listen to the plurality of conferences via the multiplexed audio . For example the requesting attendee may simultaneously listen to multiplexed audio of the first conference and the second conference over the same connection between the user interface and the conference service the same communication channel between the user interface and the conference service and so on or combinations thereof.

The conference controller may not block the multiplexed audio to one or more other attendees may provide the multiplexed audio to one or more other attendees and so on or combinations thereof. For example the requesting attendee may instruct the conference controller to provide the multiplexed audio to one or more other attendees such as the other attendee utilizing the user interface .

In the illustrated example the conference controller blocks the multiplexed audio for the other attendee utilizing the user interface . For example the conference controller may prevent the multiplexed audio from departing to the user interface . The conference controller may also prevent the multiplexed audio from being accepted at the user interface . The conference controller may prevent the user interface from utilizing the multiplexed audio .

In the illustrated example the conference controller provides respective audio to the other attendee utilizing the user interface which corresponds only to a respective conference of the plurality of conferences in which the other attendee has access. For example the other attendee may have access e.g. is invited to join has an access code to join is authorized to join etc. to the second conference and does not have access e.g. is not invited to join does not have an access code to join is unauthorized to join etc. to the first conference. Moreover the other attendee may not have any desire to participate join listen and or contribute in the first conference. Accordingly the conference controller may block the multiplexed audio for the other attendee may provide the respective audio which corresponds only to the respective conference in which the other attendee has access e.g. audio corresponding only to the second conference and so on or combinations thereof.

The conference controller may provide multiplexed audio not shown different than the multiplexed audio to the other attendee utilizing the user interface . In one example the multiplexed audio provided to the other attendee may not overlap with the multiplexed audio e.g. does not include at least one common conference . In another example the multiplexed audio provided to the other attendee may partially overlap with the multiplexed audio e.g. does include at least one common conference . For example the other attendee may perform an add operation utilizing the user interface to add a third conference to the second conference. In response the conference controller may provide multiplexed audio to the other attendee for a plurality of conferences including the second conference and the third conference which may cause the other attendee to simultaneously listen to the second conference and the third conference.

In a further example the attendee utilizing the user interface may have access to the second conference and not to the third conference may not have any desire to listen to the third conference and so on or combinations thereof. The conference controller may block and or may not provide the multiplexed audio for the plurality of conference including the second conference and the third conference for the attendee utilizing the user interface . Indeed the conference controller may provide the multiplexed audio to the attendee utilizing the user interface concurrently with providing the multiplexed audio for the plurality of conferences including the second conference and the third conference to the attendee utilizing the user interface .

Accordingly every conference attendee may be able to simultaneously listen to a plurality of conferences which are of interest may be able to simultaneously listen to a plurality of conferences in which the attendee has access e.g. is invited to join has an access code to join is authorized to join etc. and so on or combinations thereof. In addition there may be no need to split an original conference into subgroups since each conference attendee may have the control to modify a conference e.g. add a conference delete a conferment etc. as desired. Moreover there may be no need to unnecessarily force a conference attendee that is uninterested and or unauthorized in a conference to participate join listen and or contribute in the conference when one or more other attendees wish to simultaneously listen to more than one conferences including the conference.

In the illustrated example of the conference controller provides at least the multiplexed audio to the requesting attendee having access to each of the plurality of conferences e.g. access to the first conference and the second conference via the user interface . The user interface issues a hold key code which causes the conference controller to place at least the first conference and the second conference on hold. The conference controller may also respond with a prompt . It should be understood that the prompt is optional. In addition it should be understood that the hold key code and the prompt may be the same and or similar to the hold key code and the prompt respectively described above. In one example the requesting attendee may enter the hold key code 1 utilizing the user interface to perform a hold operation for the plurality of conferences including the first conference and the second conference.

In the illustrated example the user interface issues a delete operation key code to the conference controller to delete a conference of the plurality of conferences such as the first conference and or the second conference. The delete key code may include a key sequence of one or more keys e.g. 5 etc. . In one example the requesting attendee may enter the delete key code by inputting the key sequence of the hold code at the user interface . For example the requesting attendee may enter the key code 2 and or the key code 5 utilizing the user interface to perform a delete operation involving deleting the conference. The conference controller may respond with a prompt for identification data not shown to identify the conference to be deleted. The prompt may include a dialog having instructions such as Enter identification data for the conference. In one example the identification data may include the authentication data for the conference to be deleted the sequence number of the conference in a conference chain to be deleted the conference number of the conference to be deleted and so on or combinations thereof. It should be understood that the prompt for the identification data is optional and that the identification data may be input from the user interface independently of any prompt.

The conference controller may identify the identification data by for example determining that the data encountered when the plurality of conferences including the first conference and the second conference is on hold includes preset authentication data e.g. the preset value previously entered includes a configuration e.g. number type etc. consistent with a configuration of authentication data e.g. an access code of four numbers 1234 5678 etc. previously entered includes a configuration consistent with a conference number e.g. conference number of nine number 800123456 previously entered and so on or combinations thereof. In one example the user interface may issue the access code 5678 corresponding to the second conference which may cause the conference controller to identify the second conference as the conference to be deleted may cause the conference controller to identify the first conference as a remaining conference and so on or combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the user interface issues a release key code . In one example the release key code may be the same and or similar to the release key code described above. The release key code may be issued in response to a prompt not shown . For example the prompt for the identification data may include a dialog having instructions such as Enter identification data for the conference followed by 3. In another example the prompt for the release key code may be separate from the prompt for the identification data . For example the conference controller may automatically issue the prompt for the release key code when the conference controller identifies that the identification data has ended. It should also be understood that the prompt for the release key code is optional and that the release key code may be input from the user interface independently of any prompt.

The release key code may cause the conference controller to release the hold on the remaining conference e.g. including the first conference the first conference etc. . The release key code may also cause the conference controller to provide at least audio to the requesting attendee which may include audio of the first conference. In addition any other data for the remaining conference e.g. the first conference may be provided to the requesting attendee whether multiplexed or not such as video data text data web page data presentation data spreadsheet data and so on or combinations thereof. In the illustrated example the conference controller provides at least the audio to the requesting attendee via the user interface which may cause the requesting attendee to listen to audio of the first conference.

It should be understood that a plurality of key codes may be implemented for a plurality of conference operations. For example the attendee utilizing the conference may sequentially enter the hold key code 1 utilizing to perform a hold operation may enter the key code 4 to perform an add operation may enter the key code 5 to perform a delete operation and may enter the key code 3 to perform a release operation to provide multiplexed data. Accordingly the conference controller may provide audio for a plurality of conferences that is tailored to each attendee.

In the illustrated example of the conference controller provides at least the multiplexed audio to the requesting attendee having access to each of the plurality of conferences e.g. access to the first conference and the second conference via the user interface . The user interface issues a hold key code which causes the conference controller to place at least the first conference and the second conference on hold. The conference controller may also respond with a prompt not shown . It should be understood that the prompt is optional. In addition it should be understood that the hold key code and the prompt may be the same and or similar to the hold key code and the prompt respectively described above. In one example the requesting attendee may enter the hold key code 1 utilizing the user interface to perform a hold operation for the plurality of conferences including the first conference and the second conference.

In the illustrated example the user interface issues a selection operation key code to the conference controller to select a subset of the plurality of conferences for example including the first conference and or the second conference. The selection key code may include a key sequence of one or more keys e.g. 6 etc. . In one example the requesting attendee may enter the selection key code by inputting the key sequence of the selection key code at the user interface . For example the requesting attendee may enter the key code 2 and or the key code 6 utilizing the user interface to perform a selection operation involving selecting a subset of the plurality of conferences. The conference controller may respond with a prompt for identification data not shown to identify a conference to be included in the subset. The identification data may be same and or similar to the identification data described above. In addition the prompt may include a dialog having instructions such as Enter identification data for the conference. In one example the identification data may include the authentication data for the conference to be included in the subset the sequence number of the conference in a conference chain to be included in the subset the conference number of the conference to be included in the subset and so on or combinations thereof. It should be understood that prompt for the identification data is optional and that the identification data may be input from the user interface independently of any prompt.

The conference controller may identify the identification data by for example determining that the data encountered when the plurality of conferences including the first conference and the second conference is on hold includes preset authentication data e.g. the preset value previously entered includes a configuration e.g. number type etc. consistent with a configuration of authentication data e.g. an access code of four numbers 1234 5678 etc. previously entered includes a configuration consistent with a conference number e.g. conference number of nine number 800123456 previously entered and so on or combinations thereof. In one example the user interface may issue the access code 1234 corresponding to the first conference which may cause the conference controller to identify the first conference as the conference to be included in the subset may cause the conference controller to identify the second conference as a conference to be excluded in the subset and so on or combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the user interface issues a release key code . In one example the release key code may be the same and or similar to the release key code described above. The release key code may be issued in response to a prompt not shown . For example the prompt for the identification data may include a dialog having instructions such as Enter identification data for the conference followed by 3. In another example the prompt for the release key code may be separate from the prompt for the identification data . For example the conference controller may automatically issue the prompt for the release key code when the conference controller identifies that the identification data has ended. It should also be understood that the prompt for a release key code is optional and that the release key code may be input from the user interface independently of any prompt.

The release key code may cause the conference controller to release the hold on the subset of the plurality of conferences including the first conference. The release key code may also cause the conference controller to provide at least subset audio to the requesting attendee which may include audio only for the first conference multiplexed audio including the first conference and so on or combinations thereof. In addition any other data for the subset of the plurality of conferences e.g. the first conference may be provided to the requesting attendee whether multiplexed or not such as video data text data web page data presentation data spreadsheet data and so on or combinations thereof. In the illustrated example the conference controller provides at least the audio to the requesting attendee via the user interface which may cause the requesting attendee to listen to audio of the first conference.

In addition the release key code may cause the conference controller to mute audio for each conference excluded in the subset such as the audio from the second conference. In the illustrated example the release key code may also cause the conference controller to communicate audio originating from the requesting attendee with each conference included in the subset. For example the conference controller may communication audio originating at the user interface to respective user interfaces of conference attendees participating in the respective conferences included in the subset. Accordingly the requesting attendee may speak and cause each attendee participating in the respective conferences included in the subset to listen to the requesting attendee.

In the illustrated example the user interface issues a rejoin key code . The rejoin key code may include a key sequence of one or more keys e.g. 7 etc. . In one example the requesting attendee may enter the rejoin key code by inputting the key sequence of the rejoin key code at the user interface . In addition the rejoin key code may cause the conference controller to rejoin each conference excluded in the subset e.g. the second conference with each conference included in the subset e.g. the first conference . The rejoin key code may also cause the conference controller to unmute the audio for each conference excluded in the subset e.g. to unmute the audio for the second conference . The conference controller provides the multiplexed audio including the first conference and the second conference to the user interface .

Accordingly it should be understood that the use of a particular key code may be optional based for example on a preference of a conference service manager a preference of a conference service administrator and so on or combinations thereof. In one example the conference controller may perform an operation corresponding to a key code automatically and or independently of requiring another particular key code a particular sequence of key codes and so on or combinations thereof. For example the rejoin key code may be entered independently of a hold operation via a hold key code and or independently of a release operation via a release key code. Moreover the key code utilized to implement any conference operation e.g. a delete key code utilized to implement a delete operation may cause the conference controller to implement the corresponding operation e.g. delete automatically on encountering identification data instead of and or in addition to utilizing a particular key code such as a release key code. In one example the conference controller may provide the multiplexed audio including the first conference and the second conference automatically on encountering the rejoin key code .

The illustrated conference service logic includes a conference controller logic to perform a conference operation e.g. adding deleting selecting etc. . In the illustrated example the conference controller includes key code logic to identify one or more key codes. The illustrated key code logic includes hold key code logic modification key code logic and release key code logic to identify a hold key code modification key code and release key code respectively. The illustrated modification key code logic includes add key code logic delete key code logic selection key code logic and rejoin key code logic to identify add key code a delete key code a selection key code and a rejoin key code respectively. The illustrated key code logic also includes map key logic which may map any key code e.g. a delete key code with a physical hotkey of a conference device such as a SIP telephone. The illustrated key code logic may identify one or more key codes by for example determining that data encountered includes preset key code data e.g. a preset value determining that the data encountered includes a configuration e.g. number type etc. consistent with the configuration of key code data e.g. a key sequence including a character and a number 1 2 etc. and so on or combinations thereof.

The illustrated conference controller logic includes authentication data logic to identify authentication data. The authentication data may include an access code such as including a pin number a bridge number a password and so on or combinations thereof. In one example the authentication data may correspond to a conference to be added to be deleted to be included in a subset to be excluded in a subset to be rejoined and so on or combinations thereof. The illustrated authentication data logic may identify the authentication data by for example determining that data encountered is preset authentication data e.g. a preset value determining that the data encountered includes a configuration e.g. number type etc. consistent with the configuration of authentication data e.g. an access code of four numbers 1234 5678 etc. determining that the data encountered includes a configuration consistent with a conference number e.g. conference number of nine number 800123456 and so on or combinations thereof.

The illustrated conference controller logic includes prompt logic to prompt for data. The illustrated prompt logic may provide a dialog which may include an instruction including any data type such as audio data video data text data and so on or combinations thereof. In one example the instruction may prompt for a key code such as the hold key code the modification key code the release key code and so on or combinations thereof. The instruction may prompt for any other key code such as the add key code the delete key code the selection key code the rejoin key code the mapping key code a mute key code e.g. to mute audio video and so on or combinations thereof. In the illustrated example key code logic may recommend one more key codes to the prompt logic to be used in the dialog. For example the key code logic may recommend the release key code to be used by the prompt logic to prompt for the recommended initiation key code. The recommendation may be based on any criteria such as available key codes preferences preset values and so on or combinations thereof.

The illustrated conference controller logic includes identification data logic to identify identification data. The identification data may include for example authentication data for a conference a sequence number of a conference in a conference chain a conference number of a conference and so on or combinations thereof. In one example the identification data may correspond to a conference to be added to be deleted to be included in a subset to be excluded in a subset to be rejoined and so on or combinations thereof. The illustrated identification logic may identify the identification data by for example determining that data encountered includes preset authentication data e.g. the preset value previously entered determining that the data encountered includes a configuration e.g. number type etc. consistent with a configuration of authentication data e.g. an access code of four numbers 1234 5678 etc. previously entered determining that the data encountered includes a configuration consistent with a conference number e.g. conference number of nine number 800123456 previously entered determining that the data encountered includes a configuration e.g. number type etc. consistent with a sequence number corresponding to a conference in a chain of conferences e.g. 1 for a first conference in a chain of conferences 2 for a second conference in a chain of conferences etc. and so on or combinations thereof.

The illustrated conference controller logic includes operation logic to facilitate a conference operation. The illustrated operation logic includes hold logic to implement a hold operation modification logic to implement a modification operation and release logic to implement a release operation. The illustrated modification logic includes add logic to implement an add operation delete logic to implement a delete operation selection logic to implement a subset selection operation and rejoin logic to implement a rejoin operation. In the illustrated example the key code logic may identify one or more key codes and notify the operation logic . In addition the authentication logic may identify authentication data and notify the operation logic . Moreover the identification logic may identify identification data and notify the operation logic .

In one example the hold key code logic may identify a hold key code and notify the operation logic which may cause the hold logic to implement a hold operation including holding one or more conferences. The add key code logic may identify an add key code and notify the operation logic the authentication data logic may identify authentication and notify the operation logic and or the identification data logic may identify identification data and notify the operation logic which may cause the add logic to implement an add operation including adding a conference corresponding to the authentication data and or the identification data. The delete code logic may identify a delete key code and notify the operation logic the authentication data logic may identify authentication and notify the operation logic and or the identification data logic may identify identification data and notify the operation logic which may cause the delete logic to implement a delete operation including deleting a conference corresponding to the authentication data and or the identification data.

The selection key code logic may identify a selection key code and notify the operation logic the authentication data logic may identify authentication and notify the operation logic and or the identification data logic may identify identification data and notify the operation logic which may cause the selection logic to implement a selection operation including selecting a subset of the plurality of conferences corresponding to the authentication data and or the identification data. The rejoin key code logic may identify a rejoin key code and notify the operation logic the authentication data logic may identify authentication and notify the operation logic and or the identification data logic may identify identification data and notify the operation logic which may cause the rejoin logic to implement a rejoin operation including rejoining a conference included in the subset with a conference excluded in the subset corresponding to the authentication data and or the identification data. The rejoin key code may also cause the rejoin logic to implement a rejoin operation including rejoining each conference excluded in the subset with each conference included in the subset. The release key code logic may identify a release key code and notify the operation logic which may cause the release logic to implement a release operation including releasing the hold on one or more conferences.

The illustrated conference controller logic includes audio logic to provide audio to conference parties e.g. attendees . The illustrated audio logic includes multiplex logic to provide at least multiplex audio for a plurality of conferences wherein the multiplexed audio is to be provided to a requesting attendee having access to each of the plurality of conferences to cause the requesting attendee to simultaneously listen to the plurality of conferences via the multiplexed audio. In one example the operation logic may notify the audio logic that a release operation is implemented which may cause the multiplex logic to provide the multiplexed audio to the requesting attendee. The multiplex logic may also provide any other data for to the requesting attendee whether multiplexed or not such as video data text data web page data presentation data spreadsheet data and so on or combinations thereof. In addition the multiplex logic may provide and or block at least the multiplex data from one or more other conference attendees.

The illustrated audio logic includes respective conference logic to provide at least audio corresponding only to a respective conference of the plurality of conferences to another conference attendee having access to the respective conference. In one example the respective conference logic may provide at least the audio corresponding only to the respective conference to the other attendee concurrently as the multiplex logic provides at least multiplex audio for the plurality of conferences to the requesting attendee. In another example the multiplex logic may provide multiplexed audio for a plurality of conferences including the two or more conferences in which the other attendee has access and wishes to simultaneously participate. In addition the multiplex logic may provide and or block the multiplexed audio for the plurality of conferences including the two or more conferences in which the other attendee has access to one or more attendees.

The illustrated audio logic includes mute logic to mute one or more conferences of the plurality of conferences. In one example the mute logic may automatically mute audio originating from the requesting attendee when the multiplex logic provides at least the multiplexed audio for the plurality of conferences to the requesting attendee. In another example the operation logic may notify the audio logic that a selection operation is implemented and or that a release operation is implemented which may cause the mute logic to mute audio of each conference to be excluded in the subset. The illustrated audio logic also includes communication logic to communicate audio originating from the requesting attendee with each conference to be included in the subset. For example the operation logic may notify the audio logic that a selection operation is implemented and or that a release operation is implemented which may cause the communication logic to communicate audio originating from the requesting attendee with each conference to be included in the subset. In a further example the mute logic may unmute the audio originating from the requesting attendee when the operation logic notifies the audio logic that the selection operation is implemented and or that the release operation is implemented. The mute logic may also unmute a conference excluded in a subset. For example the operation logic may notify the audio logic that a rejoin operation is implemented which may cause the mute logic to unmute the audio for each conference excluded in the subset. It should be understood that the mute logic and or the communication logic may mute and or communicate respectively any data such as video data presentation data spreadsheet data and so on or combinations thereof.

Illustrated processing block provides for adding at least audio of a second conference in response to authentication data corresponding to the second conference when the conference operation involves adding a conference. In one example the adding operation may be implemented in response to an add key code. Thus adding the audio of the second conference at the block may correspond to for example adding the second conference e.g. B C and or already discussed. Illustrated processing block provides for providing at least multiplexed audio for a plurality of conferences including the first conference and the second conference. In one example the multiplexed audio for the plurality of conferences may be provided in response to a release key code from the requesting attendee. In another example the multiplexed audio may be provided and or blocked from one or more other attendees. The multiplexed audio may be provided to the requesting attendee having access to each of the plurality of conferences causing the requesting attendee to simultaneously listen to the plurality of conferences via the multiplexed audio. Thus providing the multiplexed audio at the block may correspond to for example providing the multiplexed audio e.g. B C and or already discussed.

Illustrated processing block provides for providing at least audio corresponding only to a respective conference of the plurality of conferences to another conference attendee having access to the respective conference. Thus providing the audio corresponding only to the respective conference at the block may correspond to for example providing the audio corresponding only to the respective conference e.g. B C and or already discussed. Illustrated processing block provides for selecting a subset of the plurality of conferences. In one example the selection operation may be implemented in response to a selection key code and or to identification data corresponding to each conference included in the subset. Thus selecting the subset at the block may correspond to for example selecting the subset e.g. B C and or already discussed. Illustrated processing block provides for muting audio of each conference to be excluded in the subset and or communicating audio originating from the requesting attendee with each conference included in the subset. Thus muting the audio and or communicating the audio at the block may correspond to for example muting the audio and or communicating the audio e.g. B C and or already discussed.

Illustrated processing block provides for rejoining each conference excluded in the subset with each conference included in the subset wherein the audio of each conference excluded in the subset is unmuted. In one example the rejoining operation may be implemented in response to a rejoin key code. Thus the rejoining and or the unmuting at the block may correspond to for example the rejoining and or the unmuting e.g. B C and or already discussed. Illustrated processing block provides for deleting audio of the second conference when the conference operation involves deleting a conference and or providing audio including the first conference. In one example the deleting operation may be implemented in response to a delete key code. In another example providing the audio including the first conference may be implemented in response to a release key code. Thus deleting the audio of the second conference and or providing the audio including the first conference at the block may correspond to for example deleting the audio of the second conference and or providing the audio including the first conference e.g. B C and or already discussed.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. In addition the terms first second etc. may be used herein only to facilitate discussion and carry no particular temporal or chronological significance unless otherwise indicated.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing description that the broad techniques of the embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore while the embodiments of this invention have been described in connection with particular examples thereof the true scope of the embodiments of the invention should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings specification and following claims.

