---

title: Flame retardant compositions, articles comprising the same and methods of manufacture thereof
abstract: Disclosed herein is a flame retardant composition comprising a polycarbonate; a polylactide; and a flame retardant; where the flame retardant is a phenoxyphosphazene, a di- or polyfunctional aromatic phosphorus-containing compound, or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing flame retardants. Disclosed herein is a method comprising blending a polycarbonate, a polylactide and a flame retardant to form a flame retardant composition; where the flame retardant is a phenoxyphosphazene, a di- or polyfunctional aromatic phosphorus-containing compound, or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing flame retardants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09023922&OS=09023922&RS=09023922
owner: SABIC Global Technologies B.V.
number: 09023922
owner_city: 
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20130522
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 651 487 filed on May 24 2012 and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 651 481 filed on May 24 2012 and to U.S. Provisional Application 61 700 164 filed on Sep. 12 2012 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to flame retardant polycarbonate compositions methods of manufacture thereof and to articles comprising the same.

In electronic and electrical devices such as notebook personal computers e books and tablet personal computers metallic body panels are being replaced by materials that are lighter in weight and offer a robust combination of mechanical properties. These lighter materials result in weight savings cost savings and enable the manufacture of complex designs. While these lighter materials can be used to manufacture panels having thinner cross sectional thicknesses it is desirable to improve the stiffness of the material to prevent warping while at the same time improve the impact resistance. It is also desirable to improve the flame retardancy of the material to reduce fire related hazards.

Disclosed herein is a flame retardant composition comprising a polycarbonate a polylactide and a flame retardant where the flame retardant is a phenoxyphosphazene a di or polyfunctional aromatic phosphorus containing compound or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing flame retardants.

Disclosed herein is a method comprising blending a polycarbonate a polylactide and a flame retardant to form a flame retardant composition where the flame retardant is a phenoxyphosphazene a di or polyfunctional aromatic phosphorus containing compound or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing flame retardants.

Disclosed herein is a flame retardant composition that comprises polycarbonate polylactide and a phenoxyphosphazene flame retardant compounds. The flame retardant composition displays a suitable combination of stiffness and ductility as well as a low melt viscosity that renders it easily processable. The flame retardant composition can be used in electronics goods such as notebook personal computers e books tablet personal computers and the like.

In general when one property of a polymeric composition is improved another property is degraded. For example when impact resistance is improved the elastic modulus is generally reduced. Similarly when the flame retardancy of a polymeric composition is improved the impact strength decreases. For instance in U.S. Pat. No. 7 863 382 B2 Table 9 PC PLA blends flame retardancy ranked as V 0 however the surface impact Instrument impact is only 11 joules at best. The disclosed flame retardant composition does not suffer from this drawback. It displays a unique combination of properties. In an embodiment all of the compositions properties are simultaneously improved when the flame retardant is added to the other ingredients that produce the flame retardant composition. The flame retardant composition therefore displays a unique balance of properties.

Disclosed herein too is a method of manufacturing the flame retardant composition. The method comprises blending a polycarbonate a polylactide and a flame retardant where the flame retardant is a phenoxyphosphazene a di or polyfunctional aromatic phosphorus containing compound or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing flame retardants. The blend may be molded into a desired shape.

In an embodiment Xis a substituted or unsubstituted Ccycloalkylidene a Calkylidene of formula C R R wherein Rand Rare each independently hydrogen Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Carylalkyl Cheteroalkyl or cyclic Cheteroarylalkyl or a group of the formula C R wherein Ris a divalent Chydrocarbon group. groups of this type include methylene cyclohexylmethylene ethylidene neopentylidene and isopropylidene as well as 2 2.2.1 bicycloheptylidene cyclohexylidene cyclopentylidene cyclododecylidene and adamantylidene.

In another embodiment Xis a Calkylene group a Ccycloalkylene group a fused Ccycloalkylene group or a group of the formula B G B wherein Band Bare the same or different Calkylene group and G is a Ccycloalkylidene group or a Carylene group. For example Xcan be a substituted Ccycloalkylidene of formula 4 

Bisphenols 4 can be used in the manufacture of polycarbonates containing phthalimidine carbonate units of formula 4a 

Other bisphenol carbonate repeating units of this type are the isatin carbonate units of formula 4c and 4d 

Examples of bisphenol carbonate units derived from bisphenols 4 wherein Xis a substituted or unsubstituted Ccycloalkylidene include the cyclohexylidene bridged alkyl substituted bisphenol of formula 4e 

Examples of other bisphenol carbonate units derived from bisphenol 4 wherein Xis a substituted or unsubstituted Ccycloalkylidene include adamantyl units 4f and units 4g 

Some illustrative examples of specific aromatic dihydroxy compounds include the following 4 4 dihydroxybiphenyl 1 6 dihydroxynaphthalene 2 6 dihydroxynaphthalene bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane bis 4 hydroxyphenyl diphenylmethane bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 1 naphthylmethane 1 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane 1 1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 1 phenylethane 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 3 hydroxyphenyl propane bis 4 hydroxyphenyl phenylmethane 2 2 bis 4 hydroxy 3 bromophenyl propane 1 1 bis hydroxyphenyl cyclopentane 1 1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclohexane 1 1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl isobutene 1 1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclododecane trans 2 3 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 butene 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl adamantane alpha alpha bis 4 hydroxyphenyl toluene bis 4 hydroxyphenyl acetonitrile 2 2 bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2 2 bis 3 ethyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2 2 bis 3 n propyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2 2 bis 3 isopropyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2 2 bis 3 sec butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2 2 bis 3 t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2 2 bis 3 cyclohexyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2 2 bis 3 allyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2 2 bis 3 methoxy 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl hexafluoropropane 1 1 dichloro 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethylene 1 1 dibromo 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethylene 1 1 dichloro 2 2 bis 5 phenoxy 4 hydroxyphenyl ethylene 4 4 dihydroxybenzophenone 3 3 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 butanone 1 6 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 1 6 hexanedione ethylene glycol bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ether bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ether bis 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfide bis 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfoxide bis 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfone 9 9 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl fluorine 2 7 dihydroxypyrene 6 6 dihydroxy 3 3 3 3 tetramethylspiro bis indane spirobiindane bisphenol 3 3 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl phthalimide 2 6 dihydroxydibenzo p dioxin 2 6 dihydroxythianthrene 2 7 dihydroxyphenoxathin 2 7 dihydroxy 9 10 dimethylphenazine 3 6 dihydroxydibenzofuran 3 6 dihydroxydibenzothiophene and 2 7 dihydroxycarbazole resorcinol substituted resorcinol compounds such as 5 methyl resorcinol 5 ethyl resorcinol 5 propyl resorcinol 5 butyl resorcinol 5 t butyl resorcinol 5 phenyl resorcinol 5 cumyl resorcinol 2 4 5 6 tetrafluoro resorcinol 2 4 5 6 tetrabromo resorcinol or the like catechol hydroquinone substituted hydroquinones such as 2 methyl hydroquinone 2 ethyl hydroquinone 2 propyl hydroquinone 2 butyl hydroquinone 2 t butyl hydroquinone 2 phenyl hydroquinone 2 cumyl hydroquinone 2 3 5 6 tetramethyl hydroquinone 2 3 5 6 tetra t butyl hydroquinone 2 3 5 6 tetrafluoro hydroquinone 2 3 5 6 tetrabromo hydroquinone or the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing dihydroxy compounds.

Specific examples of bisphenol compounds of formula 3 include 1 1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane 1 1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane hereinafter bisphenol A or BPA 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl butane 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl octane 1 1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 1 1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl n butane 2 2 bis 4 hydroxy 2 methylphenyl propane 1 1 bis 4 hydroxy t butylphenyl propane 3 3 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl phthalimidine 2 phenyl 3 3 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl phthalimidine PPPBP and 1 1 bis 4 hydroxy 3 methylphenyl cyclohexane DMBPC . Combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing dihydroxy compounds can also be used. In one specific embodiment the polycarbonate is a linear homopolymer derived from bisphenol A in which each of Aand Ais p phenylene and Yis isopropylidene in formula 3 .

The polycarbonates can have an intrinsic viscosity as determined in chloroform at 25 C. of 0.3 to 1.5 deciliters per gram dl gm specifically 0.45 to 1.0 dl gm. The polycarbonates can have a weight average molecular weight of 10 000 to 200 000 Daltons specifically 20 000 to 100 000 Daltons as measured by gel permeation chromatography GPC using a crosslinked styrene divinylbenzene column and calibrated to polycarbonate references. GPC samples are prepared at a concentration of 1 mg per ml and are eluted at a flow rate of 1.5 ml per minute.

 Polycarbonates includes homopolycarbonates wherein each Rin the polymer is the same copolymers comprising different Rmoieties in the carbonate copolycarbonates copolymers comprising carbonate units and other types of polymer units such as ester units and combinations comprising at least one of homopolycarbonates and or copolycarbonates.

A specific type of copolymer is a polyester carbonate also known as a polyester polycarbonate. Such copolymers further contain in addition to recurring carbonate chain units of formula 1 repeating units of formula 7 

In an embodiment J is a Calkylene group having a straight chain branched chain or cyclic including polycyclic structure. In another embodiment J is derived from an aromatic dihydroxy compound of formula 3 above. In another embodiment J is derived from an aromatic dihydroxy compound of formula 4 above. In another embodiment J is derived from an aromatic dihydroxy compound of formula 6 above.

Aromatic dicarboxylic acids that can be used to prepare the polyester units include isophthalic or terephthalic acid 1 2 di p carboxyphenyl ethane 4 4 dicarboxydiphenyl ether 4 4 bisbenzoic acid or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing acids. Acids containing fused rings can also be present such as in 1 4 1 5 or 2 6 naphthalenedicarboxylic acids. Specific dicarboxylic acids include terephthalic acid isophthalic acid naphthalene dicarboxylic acid cyclohexane dicarboxylic acid or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing acids. A specific dicarboxylic acid comprises a combination of isophthalic acid and terephthalic acid wherein the weight ratio of isophthalic acid to terephthalic acid is 91 9 to 2 98. In another specific embodiment J is a Calkylene group and T is p phenylene m phenylene naphthalene a divalent cycloaliphatic group or a combination thereof. This class of polyester includes the poly alkylene terephthalates .

The molar ratio of ester units to carbonate units in the copolymers can vary broadly for example 1 99 to 99 1 specifically 10 90 to 90 10 more specifically 25 75 to 75 25 depending on the desired properties of the final composition.

In a specific embodiment the polyester unit of a polyester polycarbonate is derived from the reaction of a combination of isophthalic and terephthalic diacids or derivatives thereof with resorcinol. In another specific embodiment the polyester unit of a polyester polycarbonate is derived from the reaction of a combination of isophthalic acid and terephthalic acid with bisphenol A. In a specific embodiment the polycarbonate units are derived from bisphenol A. In another specific embodiment the polycarbonate units are derived from resorcinol and bisphenol A in a molar ratio of resorcinol carbonate units to bisphenol A carbonate units of 1 99 to 99 1.

Polycarbonates can be manufactured by processes such as interfacial polymerization and melt polymerization. Although the reaction conditions for interfacial polymerization can vary a process generally involves dissolving or dispersing a dihydric phenol reactant in aqueous caustic soda or potash adding the resulting mixture to a water immiscible solvent medium and contacting the reactants with a carbonate precursor in the presence of a catalyst such as triethylamine and or a phase transfer catalyst under controlled pH conditions e.g. 8 to 12. The most commonly used water immiscible solvents include methylene chloride 1 2 dichloroethane chlorobenzene toluene and the like.

Carbonate precursors include a carbonyl halide such as carbonyl bromide or carbonyl chloride or a haloformate such as a bishaloformates of a dihydric phenol e.g. the bischloroformates of bisphenol A hydroquinone or the like or a glycol e.g. the bishaloformate of ethylene glycol neopentyl glycol polyethylene glycol or the like . Combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing types of carbonate precursors can also be used. In an embodiment an interfacial polymerization reaction to form carbonate linkages uses phosgene as a carbonate precursor and is referred to as a phosgenation reaction.

Among the phase transfer catalysts that can be used are catalysts of the formula R QX wherein each Ris the same or different and is a Calkyl group Q is a nitrogen or phosphorus atom and X is a halogen atom or a Calkoxy group or Caryloxy group. Phase transfer catalysts include for example CH CH NX CH CH PX CH CH NX CH CH NX CH CH NX CH CH CH NX and CH CH CH NX wherein X is Cl Br a Calkoxy group or a Caryloxy group. An effective amount of a phase transfer catalyst can be 0.1 to 10 wt based on the weight of bisphenol in the phosgenation mixture. In another embodiment an effective amount of phase transfer catalyst can be 0.5 to 2 wt based on the weight of bisphenol in the phosgenation mixture.

All types of polycarbonate end groups are contemplated as being useful in the polycarbonate composition provided that such end groups do not significantly adversely affect desired properties of the compositions.

Branched polycarbonate blocks can be prepared by adding a branching agent during polymerization. These branching agents include polyfunctional organic compounds containing at least three functional groups selected from hydroxyl carboxyl carboxylic anhydride haloformyl and mixtures of the foregoing functional groups. Specific examples include trimellitic acid trimellitic anhydride trimellitic trichloride tris p hydroxy phenyl ethane isatin bis phenol tris phenol TC 1 3 5 tris p hydroxyphenyl isopropyl benzene tris phenol PA 4 4 1 1 bis p hydroxyphenyl ethyl alpha alpha dimethyl benzyl phenol 4 chloroformyl phthalic anhydride trimesic acid and benzophenone tetracarboxylic acid. The branching agents can be added at a level of 0.05 to 2.0 wt . Mixtures comprising linear polycarbonates and branched polycarbonates can be used.

A chain stopper also referred to as a capping agent can be included during polymerization. The chain stopper limits molecular weight growth rate and so controls molecular weight in the polycarbonate. Chain stoppers include certain mono phenolic compounds mono carboxylic acid chlorides and or mono chloroformates. Mono phenolic chain stoppers are exemplified by monocyclic phenols such as phenol and C Calkyl substituted phenols such as p cumyl phenol resorcinol monobenzoate and p and tertiary butyl phenol and monoethers of diphenols such as p methoxyphenol. Alkyl substituted phenols with branched chain alkyl substituents having 8 to 9 carbon atom can be specifically mentioned. Certain mono phenolic UV absorbers can also be used as a capping agent for example 4 substituted 2 hydroxybenzophenones and their derivatives aryl salicylates monoesters of diphenols such as resorcinol monobenzoate 2 2 hydroxyaryl benzotriazoles and their derivatives 2 2 hydroxyaryl 1 3 5 triazines and their derivatives and the like.

Mono carboxylic acid chlorides can also be used as chain stoppers. These include monocyclic mono carboxylic acid chlorides such as benzoyl chloride C Calkyl substituted benzoyl chloride toluoyl chloride halogen substituted benzoyl chloride bromobenzoyl chloride cinnamoyl chloride 4 nadimidobenzoyl chloride and combinations thereof polycyclic mono carboxylic acid chlorides such as trimellitic anhydride chloride and naphthoyl chloride and combinations of monocyclic and polycyclic mono carboxylic acid chlorides. Chlorides of aliphatic monocarboxylic acids with less than or equal to 22 carbon atoms are useful. Functionalized chlorides of aliphatic monocarboxylic acids such as acryloyl chloride and methacryoyl chloride are also useful. Also useful are mono chloroformates including monocyclic mono chloroformates such as phenyl chloroformate alkyl substituted phenyl chloroformate p cumyl phenyl chloroformate toluene chloroformate and combinations thereof.

Alternatively melt processes can be used to make the polycarbonates. Generally in the melt polymerization process polycarbonates can be prepared by co reacting in a molten state the dihydroxy reactant s and a diaryl carbonate ester such as diphenyl carbonate in the presence of a transesterification catalyst in a Banbury mixer twin screw extruder or the like to form a uniform dispersion. Volatile monohydric phenol is removed from the molten reactants by distillation and the polymer is isolated as a molten residue. A specifically useful melt process for making polycarbonates uses a diaryl carbonate ester having electron withdrawing substituents on the aryls. Examples of specifically useful diaryl carbonate esters with electron withdrawing substituents include bis 4 nitrophenyl carbonate bis 2 chlorophenyl carbonate bis 4 chlorophenyl carbonate bis methyl salicyl carbonate bis 4 methylcarboxylphenyl carbonate bis 2 acetylphenyl carboxylate bis 4 acetylphenyl carboxylate or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing esters. In addition useful transesterification catalysts can include phase transfer catalysts of formula R QX wherein each R Q and X are as defined above. transesterification catalysts include tetrabutylammonium hydroxide methyltributylammonium hydroxide tetrabutylammonium acetate tetrabutylphosphonium hydroxide tetrabutylphosphonium acetate tetrabutylphosphonium phenolate or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing.

The polyester polycarbonates can also be prepared by interfacial polymerization. Rather than utilizing the dicarboxylic acid or diol per se the reactive derivatives of the acid or diol such as the corresponding acid halides in particular the acid dichlorides and the acid dibromides can be used. Thus for example instead of using isophthalic acid terephthalic acid or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing acids isophthaloyl dichloride terephthaloyl dichloride or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing dichlorides can be used.

In addition to the polycarbonates described above combinations of the polycarbonate with other thermoplastic polymers for example combinations of homopolycarbonates and or polycarbonate copolymers with polyesters can be used. Useful polyesters can include for example polyesters having repeating units of formula 7 which include poly alkylene dicarboxylates liquid crystalline polyesters and polyester copolymers. The polyesters described herein are generally completely miscible with the polycarbonates when blended.

The polyesters can be obtained by interfacial polymerization or melt process condensation as described above by solution phase condensation or by transesterification polymerization wherein for example a dialkyl ester such as dimethyl terephthalate can be transesterified with ethylene glycol using acid catalysis to generate poly ethylene terephthalate . A branched polyester in which a branching agent for example a glycol having three or more hydroxyl groups or a trifunctional or multifunctional carboxylic acid has been incorporated can be used. Furthermore it can be desirable to have various concentrations of acid and hydroxyl end groups on the polyester depending on the ultimate end use of the composition.

Useful polyesters can include aromatic polyesters poly alkylene esters including poly alkylene arylates and poly cycloalkylene diesters . Aromatic polyesters can have a polyester structure according to formula 7 wherein J and T are each aromatic groups as described hereinabove. In an embodiment useful aromatic polyesters can include for example poly isophthalate terephthalate resorcinol esters poly isophthalate terephthalate bisphenol A esters poly isophthalate terephthalate resorcinol ester co isophthalate terephthalate bisphenol A ester or a combination comprising at least one of these. Also contemplated are aromatic polyesters with a minor amount e.g. 0.5 to 10 weight percent based on the total weight of the polyester of units derived from an aliphatic diacid and or an aliphatic polyol to make copolyesters. Poly alkylene arylates can have a polyester structure according to formula 7 wherein T comprises groups derived from aromatic dicarboxylates cycloaliphatic dicarboxylic acids or derivatives thereof. Examples of specifically useful T groups include 1 2 1 3 and 1 4 phenylene 1 4 and 1 5 naphthylenes cis or trans 1 4 cyclohexylene and the like. Specifically where T is 1 4 phenylene the poly alkylene arylate is a poly alkylene terephthalate . In addition for poly alkylene arylate specifically useful alkylene groups J include for example ethylene 1 4 butylene and bis alkylene disubstituted cyclohexane including cis and or trans 1 4 cyclohexylene dimethylene. Examples of poly alkylene terephthalates include poly ethylene terephthalate PET poly 1 4 butylene terephthalate PBT and poly propylene terephthalate PPT . Also useful are poly alkylene naphthoates such as poly ethylene naphthanoate PEN and poly butylene naphthanoate PBN . A specifically useful poly cycloalkylene diester is poly cyclohexanedimethylene terephthalate PCT . Combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing polyesters can also be used.

Copolymers comprising alkylene terephthalate repeating ester units with other ester groups can also be useful. Specifically useful ester units can include different alkylene terephthalate units which can be present in the polymer chain as individual units or as blocks of poly alkylene terephthalates . Copolymers of this type include poly cyclohexanedimethylene terephthalate co poly ethylene terephthalate abbreviated as PETG where the polymer comprises greater than or equal to 50 mol of poly ethylene terephthalate and abbreviated as PCTG where the polymer comprises greater than 50 mol of poly 1 4 cyclohexanedimethylene terephthalate .

Poly cycloalkylene diester s can also include poly alkylene cyclohexanedicarboxylate s. Of these a specific example is poly 1 4 cyclohexane dimethanol 1 4 cyclohexanedicarboxylate PCCD having recurring units of formula 9 

The polycarbonate and polyester can be used in a weight ratio of 1 99 to 99 1 specifically 10 90 to 90 10 and more specifically 30 70 to 70 30 depending on the function and properties desired.

It is desirable for such a polyester and polycarbonate blend to have an MVR of 5 to 150 cc 10 min. specifically 7 to 125 cc 10 min more specifically 9 to 110 cc 10 min and still more specifically 10 to 100 cc 10 min. measured at 300 C. and a load of 1.2 kilograms according to ASTM D1238 04.

The polycarbonate may also be blended with other polymers. Examples of other polymers that can be blended with the polycarbonate includes polyacetals polyolefins polyacrylics polystyrenes polyesters polyamides polyamideimides polyarylates polyarylsulfones polyethersulfones polyphenylene sulfides polyvinyl chlorides polysulfones polyimides polyetherimides polytetrafluoroethylenes polyetherketones polyether etherketones polyether ketone ketones polybenzoxazoles polyphthalides polyacetals polyanhydrides polyvinyl ethers polyvinyl thioethers polyvinyl alcohols polyvinyl ketones polyvinyl halides polyvinyl nitriles polyvinyl esters polysulfonates polysulfides polythioesters polysulfones polysulfonamides polyureas polyphosphazenes polysilazanes or the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing organic polymers.

In an exemplary embodiment the polycarbonate may comprise a blend of polycarbonate homopolymers i.e. a first polycarbonate polymer and a second polycarbonate polymer. The first polycarbonate homopolymer has a molecular weight of 15 000 to 25 000 Daltons specifically 18 000 to 23 000 Daltons and more specifically 20 000 to 22 500 Daltons when measured using gel permeation chromatography GPC with a polycarbonate standard. The first polycarbonate homopolymer is present in an amount of 15 to 55 specifically 19 to 50 wt based on the total weight of the flame retardant composition.

The second polycarbonate homopolymer has a molecular weight of 25 000 to 40 000 Daltons specifically 27 000 to 35 000 Daltons and more specifically 28 000 to 32 500 Daltons when measured using gel permeation chromatography GPC with a polycarbonate standard. The second polycarbonate homopolymer is present in an amount of 15 to 55 specifically 16 to 45 wt based on the total weight of the flame retardant composition.

The polycarbonate can be present in an amount of 30 to 80 wt specifically in an amount of 35 to 75 wt and more specifically in an amount of 50 to 66 wt based on the total weight of the flame retardant composition.

The composition further comprises a polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer also referred to as a polysiloxane polycarbonate. The polydiorganosiloxane also referred to herein as polysiloxane blocks of the copolymer comprise repeating diorganosiloxane units as in formula 10 

The value of E in formula 10 can vary widely depending on the type and relative amount of each component in the flame retardant composition the desired properties of the composition and like considerations. Generally E has an average value of 2 to 1 000 specifically 2 to 500 or 2 to 200 more specifically 5 to 100. In an embodiment E has an average value of 10 to 75 and in still another embodiment E has an average value of 40 to 60. Where E is of a lower value e.g. less than 40 it can be desirable to use a relatively larger amount of the polycarbonate polysiloxane copolymer. Conversely where E is of a higher value e.g. greater than 40 a relatively lower amount of the polycarbonate polysiloxane copolymer can be used.

A combination of a first and a second or more polycarbonate polysiloxane copolymers can be used wherein the average value of E of the first copolymer is less than the average value of E of the second copolymer.

In an embodiment M is bromo or chloro an alkyl group such as methyl ethyl or propyl an alkoxy group such as methoxy ethoxy or propoxy or an aryl group such as phenyl chlorophenyl or tolyl Ris a dimethylene trimethylene or tetramethylene group and R is a Calkyl haloalkyl such as trifluoropropyl cyanoalkyl or aryl such as phenyl chlorophenyl or tolyl. In another embodiment R is methyl or a combination of methyl and trifluoropropyl or a combination of methyl and phenyl. In still another embodiment M is methoxy n is one Ris a divalent C Caliphatic group and R is methyl.

In an embodiment an exemplary polysiloxane polycarbonate block copolymer is one having the structure shown in the Formula 17 below 

When the polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer comprises eugenol endcapped polysiloxane the flame retardant composition comprises up to 25 wt of the polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer. The polysiloxane content is 0 to 20 wt specifically 1 to 16 wt specifically 2 to 14 wt and more specifically 3 to 6 wt based on the total weight of the polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer. In an embodiment the number average molecular weight of the polysiloxane block is 5 000 to 30 000 Daltons using a bisphenol A polycarbonate absolute molecular weight standards.

In an embodiment the polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer comprises 10 wt or less specifically 6 wt or less and more specifically 4 wt or less of the polysiloxane based on the total weight of the polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer. Polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymers containing 10 wt or less are generally optically transparent and are sometimes referred to as EXL T as commercially available from Sabic Innovative Plastics.

In another embodiment the polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer comprises 10 wt or more specifically 12 wt or more and more specifically 14 wt or more of the polysiloxane copolymer based on the total weight of the polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer. Polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymers containing 10 wt or more are generally optically opaque and are sometimes referred to as EXL P as commercially available from Sabic Innovative Plastics.

The polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer can comprise 50 to 99 weight percent of polycarbonate and 1 to 50 weight percent polysiloxane based on the total weight of the polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer. Within this range the polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer can comprise 70 to 98 weight percent more specifically 75 to 97 weight percent of polycarbonate and 2 to 30 weight percent more specifically 3 to 25 weight percent polysiloxane based on the total weight of the polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymer.

Polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymers can have a weight average molecular weight of 2 000 to 100 000 Daltons specifically 5 000 to 50 000 Daltons as measured by gel permeation chromatography using a crosslinked styrene divinyl benzene column at a sample concentration of 1 milligram per milliliter and as calibrated with polycarbonate standards.

The polysiloxane polycarbonate can have a melt volume flow rate measured at 300 C. 1.2 kg of 1 to 50 cubic centimeters per 10 minutes cc 10 min specifically 2 to 30 cc 10 min. Mixtures of polysiloxane polycarbonates of different flow properties can be used to achieve the overall desired flow property.

The flame retardant composition can further include impact modifier s . These impact modifiers include elastomer modified graft copolymers comprising i an elastomeric i.e. rubbery polymer substrate having a Tg less than or equal to 10 C. more specifically less than or equal to 10 C. or more specifically 40 to 80 C. and ii a rigid polymeric superstrate grafted to the elastomeric polymer substrate. As is known elastomer modified graft copolymers can be prepared by first providing the elastomeric polymer then polymerizing the constituent monomer s of the rigid phase in the presence of the elastomer to obtain the graft copolymer. The grafts can be attached as graft branches or as shells to an elastomer core. The shell can merely physically encapsulate the core or the shell can be partially or essentially completely grafted to the core.

Materials for use as the elastomer phase include for example conjugated diene rubbers copolymers of a conjugated diene with less than or equal to 50 wt of a copolymerizable monomer olefin rubbers such as ethylene propylene copolymers EPR or ethylene propylene diene monomer rubbers EPDM ethylene vinyl acetate rubbers silicone rubbers elastomeric Calkyl meth acrylates elastomeric copolymers of Calkyl meth acrylates with butadiene and or styrene or combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing elastomers.

Copolymers of a conjugated diene rubber can also be used for example those produced by aqueous radical emulsion polymerization of a conjugated diene and at least one monomer copolymerizable therewith. Monomers that are useful for copolymerization with the conjugated diene include monovinylaromatic monomers containing condensed aromatic ring structures such as vinyl naphthalene vinyl anthracene and the like or monomers of formula 19 

Other monomers that can be copolymerized with the conjugated diene are monovinylic monomers such as itaconic acid acrylamide N substituted acrylamide or methacrylamide maleic anhydride maleimide N alkyl aryl or haloaryl substituted maleimide glycidyl meth acrylates and monomers of the generic formula 20 

 Meth acrylate monomers for use in the elastomeric phase can be cross linked particulate emulsion homopolymers or copolymers of Calkyl meth acrylates in particular Calkyl acrylates for example n butyl acrylate t butyl acrylate n propyl acrylate isopropyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate and the like and combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing monomers. The Calkyl meth acrylate monomers can optionally be polymerized in admixture with less than or equal to 15 wt of comonomers of formulas 18 19 or 20 based on the total monomer weight. comonomers include but are not limited to butadiene isoprene styrene methyl methacrylate phenyl methacrylate phenethylmethacrylate N cyclohexylacrylamide vinyl methyl ether or acrylonitrile and combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing comonomers. Optionally less than or equal to 5 wt of a polyfunctional crosslinking comonomer can be present based on the total monomer weight. Such polyfunctional crosslinking comonomers can include for example divinylbenzene alkylenediol di meth acrylates such as glycol bisacrylate alkylenetriol tri meth acrylates polyester di meth acrylates bisacrylamides triallyl cyanurate triallyl isocyanurate allyl meth acrylate diallyl maleate diallyl fumarate diallyl adipate triallyl esters of citric acid triallyl esters of phosphoric acid and the like as well as combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing crosslinking agents.

The elastomer phase can be polymerized by mass emulsion suspension solution or combined processes such as bulk suspension emulsion bulk bulk solution or other techniques using continuous semi batch or batch processes. The particle size of the elastomer substrate is not critical. For example an average particle size of 0.001 to 25 micrometers specifically 0.01 to 15 micrometers or even more specifically 0.1 to 8 micrometers can be used for emulsion based polymerized rubber lattices. A particle size of 0.5 to 10 micrometers specifically 0.6 to 1.5 micrometers can be used for bulk polymerized rubber substrates. Particle size can be measured by simple light transmission methods or capillary hydrodynamic chromatography CHDF . The elastomer phase can be a particulate moderately cross linked conjugated butadiene or Calkyl acrylate rubber and specifically has a gel content greater than 70 . Also useful are combinations of butadiene with styrene and or Calkyl acrylate rubbers.

The elastomeric phase comprises 5 to 95 wt of the total graft copolymer more specifically 20 to 90 wt and even more specifically 40 to 85 wt of the elastomer modified graft copolymer the remainder being the rigid graft phase.

The rigid phase of the elastomer modified graft copolymer can be formed by graft polymerization of a combination comprising a monovinylaromatic monomer and optionally at least one comonomer in the presence of at least one elastomeric polymer substrates. The above described monovinylaromatic monomers of formula 19 can be used in the rigid graft phase including styrene alpha methyl styrene halostyrenes such as dibromostyrene vinyltoluene vinylxylene butylstyrene para hydroxystyrene methoxystyrene or the like or combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing monovinylaromatic monomers. Useful comonomers include for example the above described monovinylic monomers and or monomers of the general formula 18 . In an embodiment R is hydrogen or C Calkyl and Xis cyano or C Calkoxycarbonyl. comonomers for use in the rigid phase include acrylonitrile methacrylonitrile methyl meth acrylate ethyl meth acrylate n propyl meth acrylate isopropyl meth acrylate and the like and combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing comonomers.

The relative ratio of monovinylaromatic monomer and comonomer in the rigid graft phase can vary widely depending on the type of elastomer substrate type of monovinylaromatic monomer s type of comonomer s and the desired properties of the impact modifier. The rigid phase can generally comprise less than or equal to 100 wt of monovinyl aromatic monomer specifically 30 to 100 wt more specifically 50 to 90 wt monovinylaromatic monomer with the balance of the rigid phase being comonomer s .

Depending on the amount of elastomer modified polymer present a separate matrix or continuous phase of ungrafted rigid polymer or copolymer can be simultaneously obtained along with the elastomer modified graft copolymer. Typically such impact modifiers comprise 40 to 95 wt elastomer modified graft copolymer and 5 to 65 wt graft copolymer based on the total weight of the impact modifier. In another embodiment such impact modifiers comprise 50 to 85 wt more specifically 75 to 85 wt rubber modified graft copolymer together with 15 to 50 wt more specifically 15 to 25 wt graft copolymer based on the total weight of the impact modifier.

In an embodiment the aromatic vinyl copolymer comprises free styrene acrylonitrile copolymer SAN i.e. styrene acrylonitrile copolymer that is not grafted onto another polymeric chain. In a particular embodiment the free styrene acrylonitrile copolymer can have a molecular weight of 50 000 to 200 000 Daltons on a polystyrene standard molecular weight scale and can comprise various proportions of styrene to acrylonitrile. For example free SAN can comprise 75 weight percent styrene and 25 weight percent acrylonitrile based on the total weight of the free SAN copolymer. Free SAN can optionally be present by virtue of the addition of a grafted rubber impact modifier in the composition that contains free SAN and or free SAN can by present independent of other impact modifiers in the composition.

Another specific type of elastomer modified impact modifier comprises structural units derived from at least one silicone rubber monomer a branched acrylate rubber monomer having the formula HC C R C O OCHCHR wherein Ris hydrogen or a C Clinear or branched alkyl group and Ris a branched C Calkyl group a first graft link monomer a polymerizable alkenyl containing organic material and a second graft link monomer. The silicone rubber monomer can comprise for example a cyclic siloxane tetraalkoxysilane trialkoxysilane acryloxy alkoxysilane mercaptoalkyl alkoxysilane vinylalkoxysilane or allylalkoxysilane alone or in combination e.g. decamethylcyclopentasiloxane dodecamethylcyclohexasiloxane trimethyltriphenylcyclotrisiloxane tetramethyltetraphenylcyclotetrasiloxane tetramethyltetravinylcyclotetrasiloxane octaphenylcyclotetrasiloxane octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane and or tetraethoxysilane.

Branched acrylate rubber monomers include iso octyl acrylate 6 methyloctyl acrylate 7 methyloctyl acrylate 6 methylheptyl acrylate and the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing. The polymerizable alkenyl containing organic material can be for example a monomer of formula 18 or 19 e.g. styrene alpha methylstyrene acrylonitrile methacrylonitrile or an unbranched meth acrylate such as methyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate n propyl acrylate or the like alone or in combination.

The first graft link monomer can be an acryloxy alkoxysilane a mercaptoalkyl alkoxysilane a vinylalkoxysilane or an allylalkoxysilane alone or in combination e.g. gamma methacryloxypropyl dimethoxy methylsilane and or 3 mercaptopropyl trimethoxysilane. The second graft link monomer is a polyethylenically unsaturated compound having at least one allyl group such as allyl methacrylate triallyl cyanurate triallyl isocyanurate and the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing.

The silicone acrylate impact modifiers can be prepared by emulsion polymerization wherein for example a silicone rubber monomer is reacted with a first graft link monomer at a temperature from 30 to 110 C. to form a silicone rubber latex in the presence of a surfactant such as dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid. Alternatively a cyclic siloxane such as cyclooctamethyltetrasiloxane and a tetraethoxyorthosilicate can be reacted with a first graft link monomer such as gamma methacryloxypropyl methyldimethoxysilane. A branched acrylate rubber monomer is then polymerized with the silicone rubber particles optionally in presence of a cross linking monomer such as allyl methacrylate in the presence of a free radical generating polymerization catalyst such as benzoyl peroxide. This latex is then reacted with a polymerizable alkenyl containing organic material and a second graft link monomer. The latex particles of the graft silicone acrylate rubber hybrid can be separated from the aqueous phase through coagulation by treatment with a coagulant and dried to a fine powder to produce the silicone acrylate rubber impact modifier. This method can be generally used for producing the silicone acrylate impact modifier having a particle size of 100 nanometers to 2 micrometers.

Processes known for the formation of the foregoing elastomer modified graft copolymers include mass emulsion suspension and solution processes or combined processes such as bulk suspension emulsion bulk bulk solution or other techniques using continuous semi batch or batch processes.

In an embodiment the foregoing types of impact modifiers are prepared by an emulsion polymerization process that is free of basic materials such as alkali metal salts of Cfatty acids for example sodium stearate lithium stearate sodium oleate potassium oleate and the like alkali metal carbonates amines such as dodecyl dimethyl amine dodecyl amine and the like and ammonium salts of amines such materials are commonly used as surfactants in emulsion polymerization and can catalyze transesterification and or degradation of polycarbonates. Instead ionic sulfate sulfonate or phosphate surfactants can be used in preparing the impact modifiers particularly the elastomeric substrate portion of the impact modifiers. Useful surfactants include for example Calkyl or Calkylaryl sulfonates Calkyl or Calkylaryl sulfates Calkyl or Calkylaryl phosphates substituted silicates or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing. A specific surfactant is a C specifically a Calkyl sulfonate. This emulsion polymerization process is described and disclosed in various patents and literature of such companies as Rohm Haas and General Electric Company. In the practice any of the above described impact modifiers can be used providing it is free of the alkali metal salts of fatty acids alkali metal carbonates and other basic materials.

A specific impact modifier of this type is a methyl methacrylate butadiene styrene MBS impact modifier wherein the butadiene substrate is prepared using above described sulfonates sulfates or phosphates as surfactants. Other examples of elastomer modified graft copolymers in addition to ABS and MBS include but are not limited to acrylonitrile styrene butyl acrylate ASA methyl methacrylate acrylonitrile butadiene styrene MABS and acrylonitrile ethylene propylene diene styrene AES . When present impact modifiers can be present in the flame retardant composition in amounts of 3 to 25 wt specifically 4 to 15 wt based on the total weight of flame retardant composition.

In an embodiment the flame retardant composition may contain reinforcing fillers. Examples of reinforcing fillers are glass fibers carbon fibers metal fibers and the like.

The glass fibers may be flat or round fibers. Flat glass fibers have an elliptical cross sectional area while round fibers have a circular cross sectional area where the cross sectional areas are measured perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the fiber. The glass fibers may be manufactured from E glass A glass C glass D glass R glass S glass as well as E glass derivatives that are fluorine free and or boron free. The glass fibers may be woven or non woven. The glass fibers can have a diameter of 3 micrometers to 25 micrometers specifically 4 micrometers to 20 micrometers and more specifically 8 micrometers to 15 micrometers.

The carbon fibers may be either carbon nanotubes or carbon fibers derived from pitch or polyacrylonitrile. The carbon nanotubes can be single wall carbon nanotubes or multiwall carbon nanotubes. The carbon nanotubes can have diameters of 2.5 nanometers to 100 nanometers and can have aspect ratios of 5 to 10 000. The aspect ratio is defined as the ratio of the length to the diameter.

The carbon fibers derived from pitch and polyacrylonitrile have a different microstructure from the carbon nanotubes. The carbon fibers can have a diameter of 3 micrometers to 25 micrometers specifically 4 micrometers to 20 micrometers and more specifically 8 micrometers to 15 micrometers and can have aspect ratios of 0.5 to 100.

The metal fibers can be whiskers having diameters of less than 100 nanometers or can have diameters in the micrometer regime. Metal fibers in the micrometer regime can have diameters of 3 to 30 micrometers. Exemplary metal fibers comprise stainless steel aluminum iron nickel copper or the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing metals.

The flame retardant composition comprises the reinforcing fibers in an amount of 15 to 45 wt specifically 20 to 40 wt and more specifically 28 to 33 wt based on the total weight of the flame retardant composition.

The flame retardant composition may also comprise mineral fillers. In an embodiment the mineral fillers serve as synergists. The synergist facilitates an improvement in the flame retardant properties when added to the flame retardant composition over a comparative composition that contains all of the same ingredients in the same quantities except for the synergist. Examples of mineral fillers are mica talc calcium carbonate dolomite wollastonite barium sulfate silica kaolin feldspar barytes or the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing mineral fillers. The mineral filler may have an average particle size of 0.1 to 20 micrometers specifically 0.5 to 10 micrometers and more specifically 1 to 3 micrometers.

The mineral filler is present in amounts of 0.1 to 20 wt specifically 0.5 to 15 wt and more specifically 1 to 5 wt based on the total weight of the flame retardant polycarbonate composition. An exemplay mineral filler is talc.

The flame retardant composition may also optionally contain additives such as antioxidants antiozonants stabilizers thermal stabilizers mold release agents dyes colorants pigments flow modifiers or the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing additives.

As noted above the flame retardant composition comprises a flame retarding agent. The flame retarding agent can be a phosphazene compound. In an embodiment the flame retarding agent is a phenoxyphosphazene oligomer.

The phosphazene compound used in the flame retardant composition is an organic compound having a P N bond in the molecule. In an embodiment the phosphazene compound comprises at least one species of a cyclic phenoxyphosphazene represented by the formula 21 below a chainlike phenoxyphosphazene represented by the formula 22 below or a crosslinked phenoxyphosphazene compound obtained by crosslinking at least one species of phenoxyphosphazene selected from those represented by the formulae 21 and 22 below with a crosslinking group represented by the formula 23 below 

A commercially available phenoxyphosphazene having the structure of formula 24 is LY202 manufactured and distributed by Lanyin Chemical Co. Ltd.

The cyclic phenoxyphosphazene compound represented by the formula 21 may be exemplified by compounds such as phenoxy cyclotriphosphazene octaphenoxy cyclotetraphosphazene and decaphenoxy cyclopentaphosphazene obtained by allowing ammonium chloride and phosphorus pentachloride to react at 120 to 130 C. to obtain a mixture containing cyclic and straight chain chlorophosphazenes extracting cyclic chlorophosphazenes such as hexachloro cyclotriphosphazene octachloro cyclotetraphosphazene and decachloro cyclopentaphosphazene and then substituting it with a phenoxy group. The cyclic phenoxyphosphazene compound may be a compound in which m in the formula 21 represents an integer of 3 to 8.

The chainlike phenoxyphosphazene compound represented by the formula 22 is exemplified by a compound obtained by subjecting hexachloro cyclotriphosphazene obtained by the above described method to ring opening polymerization at 220 to 250 C. and then substituting thus obtained chainlike dichlorophosphazene having a degree of polymerization of 3 to 10000 with phenoxy groups. The chain like phenoxyphosphazene compound has a value of n in the formula 22 of 3 to 1000 specifically 5 to 100 and more specifically 6 to 25.

The crosslinked phenoxyphosphazene compound may be exemplified by compounds having a crosslinked structure of a 4 4 diphenylene group such as a compound having a crosslinked structure of a 4 4 sulfonyldiphenylene bisphenol S residue a compound having a crosslinked structure of a 2 2 4 4 diphenylene isopropylidene group a compound having a crosslinked structure of a 4 4 oxydiphenylene group and a compound having a crosslinked structure of a 4 4 thiodiphenylene group. The phenylene group content of the crosslinked phenoxyphosphazene compound is generally 50 to 99.9 wt and specifically 70 to 90 wt based on the total number of phenyl group and phenylene group contained in the cyclic phosphazene compound represented by the formula 21 and or the chainlike phenoxyphosphazene compound represented by the formula 22 . The crosslinked phenoxyphosphazene compound may be particularly preferable if it doesn t have any free hydroxyl groups in the molecule thereof. In an exemplary embodiment the phosphazene compound comprises the cyclic phosphazene.

It is desirable for the flame retardant composition to comprise the phosphazene compound in an amount of 1 to 20 wt specifically 2 to 16 wt and more specifically 5 wt to 14 wt based on the total weight of the flame retardant composition.

In lieu of or in addition to the phenoxyphosphazene flame retardants useful flame retardants include organic compounds that include phosphorus in other forms i.e. that are not phosphazenes bromine and or chlorine. Non brominated and non chlorinated phosphorus containing flame retardants are desirable in certain applications for regulatory reasons for example organic phosphates and organic compounds containing phosphorus nitrogen bonds other than phosphazenes.

Flame retardant aromatic phosphates include triphenyl phosphate tricresyl phosphate isopropylated triphenyl phosphate phenyl bis dodecyl phosphate phenyl bis neopentyl phosphate phenyl bis 3 5 5 trimethylhexyl phosphate ethyl diphenyl phosphate 2 ethylhexyl di p tolyl phosphate bis 2 ethylhexyl p tolyl phosphate tritolyl phosphate bis 2 ethylhexyl phenyl phosphate tri nonylphenyl phosphate bis dodecyl p tolyl phosphate dibutyl phenyl phosphate 2 chloroethyl diphenyl phosphate p tolyl bis 2 5 5 trimethylhexyl phosphate and 2 ethylhexyl diphenyl phosphate. Di or polyfunctional aromatic phosphorus containing compounds are also useful for example resorcinol tetraphenyl diphosphate RDP the bis diphenyl phosphate of hydroquinone and the bis diphenyl phosphate of bisphenol A respectively and their oligomeric and polymeric counterparts. Flame retardant compounds containing phosphorus nitrogen bonds include phosphonitrilic chloride phosphorus ester amides phosphoric acid amides phosphonic acid amides phosphinic acid amides and tris aziridinyl phosphine oxide.

When used phosphorus containing flame retardants are present in amounts of 1 to 30 wt specifically 2 to 20 wt and more specifically 2.5 wt to 15 wt based on the total weight of the flame retardant composition excluding any filler.

Halogenated materials can also be used as flame retardants for example bisphenols of which the following are representative 2 2 bis 3 5 dichlorophenyl propane bis 2 chlorophenyl methane bis 2 6 dibromophenyl methane 1 1 bis 4 iodophenyl ethane 1 2 bis 2 6 dichlorophenyl ethane 1 1 bis 2 chloro 4 iodophenyl ethane 1 1 bis 2 chloro 4 methylphenyl ethane 1 1 bis 3 5 dichlorophenyl ethane 2 2 bis 3 phenyl 4 bromophenyl ethane 2 6 bis 4 6 dichloronaphthyl propane and 2 2 bis 3 5 dichloro 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2 2 bis 3 bromo 4 hydroxyphenyl propane. Other halogenated materials include 1 3 dichlorobenzene 1 4 dibromobenzene 1 3 dichloro 4 hydroxybenzene and biphenyls such as 2 2 dichlorobiphenyl polybrominated 1 4 diphenoxybenzene 2 4 dibromobiphenyl and 2 4 dichlorobiphenyl as well as decabromo diphenyl oxide as well as oligomeric and polymeric halogenated aromatic compounds such as a copolycarbonate of bisphenol A and tetrabromobisphenol A and a carbonate precursor e.g. phosgene. Metal synergists e.g. antimony oxide can also be used with the flame retardant.

When present halogen containing flame retardants are present in amounts of 1 to 25 wt more specifically 2 to 20 wt based on the total weight of the flame retardant composition excluding any filler.

Alternatively the flame retardant composition can be essentially free of chlorine and bromine. Essentially free of chlorine and bromine is defined as having a bromine and or chlorine content of less than or equal to 100 parts per million by weight ppm less than or equal to 75 ppm or less than or equal to 50 ppm based on the total parts by weight of the composition excluding any filler.

Inorganic flame retardants can also be used for example salts of Calkyl sulfonate salts such as potassium perfluorobutane sulfonate Rimar salt potassium perfluoroctane sulfonate tetraethylammonium perfluorohexane sulfonate and potassium diphenylsulfone sulfonate salts such as NaCO KCO MgCO CaCO and BaCO or fluoro anion complexes such as LiAlF BaSiF KBF KAlF KAlF KSiF and or NaAlF. When present inorganic flame retardant salts are present in amounts of 0.01 to 10 parts by weight more specifically 0.02 to 1 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the total composition excluding any filler.

In addition to the polycarbonate the flame retardant composition can include various additives ordinarily incorporated into polymer compositions of this type with the proviso that the additive s are selected so as to not significantly adversely affect the desired properties of the flame retardant composition in particular the thermal and impact properties. Such additives can be mixed at a suitable time during the mixing of the components for forming the composition. additives include impact modifiers fillers reinforcing agents antioxidants heat stabilizers light stabilizers ultraviolet UV light stabilizers plasticizers lubricants mold release agents antistatic agents colorants such as such as titanium dioxide carbon black and organic dyes surface effect additives radiation stabilizers flame retardants and anti drip agents. A combination of additives can be used for example a combination of a heat stabilizer mold release agent and ultraviolet light stabilizer. In general the additives are used in the amounts generally known to be effective. The total amount of additives other than any impact modifier filler or reinforcing agents is generally 0.01 to 5 wt based on the total weight of the composition.

As noted above the flame retardant composition comprises polylactic acid hereinafter termed a polylactide . In an exemplary embodiment the polylactide is a bio based polymer. The polylactide is blended with the polycarbonate. In an embodiment the polylactide is a copolymer with the polycarbonate. In an exemplary embodiment the polylactide is copolymerized with a polycarbonate a polyester or a polycarbonate ester. Copolymers are discussed in detail below.

The polylactide is derived from the polymerization of L lactic acid and or D lactic acid. Polylactides derived from the polymerization of L lactic acid are called poly L lactide abbreviated as PLLA while polylactides derived from the polymerization of D lactic acid are called poly D lactide abbreviated as PDLA . The polylactides can comprise copolymers of polylactides.

The polymers that are copolymerized with the polylactide are derived from the polymerization of dihydroxy compounds e.g. ethylene glycol propylene glycol butanediol heptanediol hexanediol octanediol nonanediol decanediol 1 4 cyclohexane dimethanol neopentyl glycol glycerin pentaerythritol bisphenol A polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol polytetramethylene glycol or the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing dihydroxy compounds with dicarboxylic acids e.g. oxalic acid adipic acid sebacic acid azelaic acid dodecane dioic acid malonic acid glutaric acid cyclohexane dicarboxylic acid terephthalic acid isophthalic acid phthalic acid naphthalene dicarboxylic acid bis p carboxyphenyl methane anthracene dicarboxylic acid 4 4 diphenylether dicarboxylic acid 5 sodium sulfoisophthalic acid and 5 tetrabutyl phosphonium isophthalic acid hydroxycarboxylic acids such as glycolic acid hydroxypropionic acid hydroxybutyric acid hydroxyvaleric acid hydroxycaproic acid and hydroxybenzoic acid lactones such as caprolactone valerolactone propiolactone undecalactone and 1 5 oxepan 2 one or the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing dicarboxylic acids . In a copolymer of polylactide it is desirable to have 2 to 70 wt of the polylactide based on the total weight of the copolymer.

In an embodiment the polylactide is a polycarbonate polylactide diblock copolymer having the structure of formula 25 

In another embodiment the polylactide is a polycarbonate polylactide triblock copolymer having the structure of formula 26 

In yet another embodiment the polylactide is a polycarbonate polylactide diblock copolymer having the structure of formula 27 

In yet another embodiment the polylactide is a polycarbonate polylactide triblock copolymer having the structure of formula 28 

It is desirable to use a polylactide derived from a lactic acid whose optical purity is high. When the polylactide is derived from a combination of polymers derived from L lactic acid and from D lactic acid it is desirable for the polymers derived from L lactic acid to be present in an amount of 80 wt or more or 20 wt or less based on the total weight of the polylactide. Conversely it is desirable for the polymers derived from the D lactic acid to be present in an amount of 80 wt or more or 20 wt or less based on the total weight of the polylactide.

In an embodiment when the polylactide is derived from a combination of polymers derived from L lactic acid and from D lactic acid it is desirable for the polymers derived from L lactic acid to be present in an amount of greater than or equal to 80 wt specifically greater than or equal to 85 wt specifically greater than or equal to 90 wt and more specifically greater than or equal to 98 wt based on the total weight of the polylactide. In another embodiment when the polylactide is derived from a combination of polymers derived from L lactic acid and from D lactic acid it is desirable for the polymers derived from D lactic acid to be present in an amount of greater than or equal to 80 wt specifically greater than or equal to 85 wt specifically greater than or equal to 90 wt and more specifically greater than or equal to 98 wt based on the total weight of the polylactide. In an embodiment when the polylactide is derived from a combination of polymers derived from L lactic acid and from D lactic acid it is desirable for the polymers derived from L lactic acid to be present in an amount of 50 wt and the polymers derived from D lactic acid to be present in an amount of 50 wt .

The polylactide may comprise modified polylactides such as a maleic anhydride modified polylactide an epoxy modified polylactide an amine modified polylactide or the like or a combination comprising at least one of the foregoing polylactides.

It is desirable for the weight average molecular weight of the polylactide to be 10 000 to 350 000 Daltons specifically 30 000 to 250 000 Daltons and more specifically 100 000 to 200 000 Daltons. The weight average molecular weight is determined by polystyrene equivalent molecular weight measured by a gel permeation chromatography GPC . In an exemplary embodiment the weight average molecular weight of the polylactide is 100 000 to 200 000 Daltons as measured using GPC using a polystyrene equivalent molecular weight in conjunction with refractive index measurements.

It is desirable for the melting temperature of the polylactide to be greater than or equal to 120 C. and more specifically greater than or equal to 150 C. Since the melting temperature of the polylactide increases with its optical purity increases it is desirable to use a high optical purity polylactide.

It is generally desirable to use the polylactide in amounts of 5 to 50 wt specifically 8 to 30 wt and more specifically 9 to 20 wt based on the total weight of the flame retardant composition.

In an embodiment the flame retardant composition may comprise an anti drip agent. Fluorinated polyolefin and or polytetrafluoroethylene may be used as an anti drip agent. Anti drip agents may also be used for example a fibril forming or non fibril forming fluoropolymer such as polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE . The anti drip agent may be encapsulated by a rigid copolymer such as for example styrene acrylonitrile SAN . PTFE encapsulated in SAN is known as TSAN. Encapsulated fluoropolymers may be made by polymerizing the encapsulating polymer in the presence of the fluoropolymer for example in an aqueous dispersion. TSAN may provide significant advantages over PTFE in that TSAN may be more readily dispersed in the composition. A suitable TSAN may comprise for example 50 wt PTFE and 50 wt SAN based on the total weight of the encapsulated fluoropolymer. The SAN may comprise for example 75 wt styrene and 25 wt acrylonitrile based on the total weight of the copolymer. Alternatively the fluoropolymer may be pre blended in some manner with a second polymer such as for example an aromatic polycarbonate resin or SAN to form an agglomerated material for use as an anti drip agent. Either method may be used to produce an encapsulated fluoropolymer.

The anti drip agent may be added in the form of relatively large particles having a number average particle size of 0.3 to 0.7 mm specifically 0.4 to 0.6 millimeters. The anti drip agent may be used in amounts of 0.01 wt to 10 wt based on the total weight of the flame retardant composition.

The flame retardant composition may have less than 50 ppm halogen content. The composition may have less than 50 ppm of antimony lead cadmium mercury arsenic thallium or mixtures thereof. The composition may additionally have a notched Izod impact strength at 23 C. of 480 J m or greater when measured per ASTM D256 and a heat distortion temperature at 1.82 MPa of 75 C. or greater when measured per ASTM D648.

The polycarbonate together with the polylactide and the phenoxyphosphazene flame retardant may generally be processed in several different ways such as melt blending solution blending or the like or combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing methods of blending. Melt blending of the moldable composition involves the use of shear force extensional force compressive force ultrasonic energy electromagnetic energy thermal energy or combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing forces or forms of energy and is conducted in processing equipment wherein the aforementioned forces or forms of energy are exerted by a single screw multiple screws intermeshing co rotating or counter rotating screws non intermeshing co rotating or counter rotating screws reciprocating screws screws with pins screws with screens barrels with pins rolls rams helical rotors or combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing.

Melt blending involving the aforementioned forces may be conducted in machines such as single or multiple screw extruders Buss kneader Henschel helicones Ross mixer Banbury roll mills molding machines such as injection molding machines vacuum forming machines blow molding machine or the like or combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing machines.

In an embodiment the polycarbonate in powder form pellet form sheet form or the like may be first dry blended with the polylactide and phenoxyphosphazene also in powder pellet or sheet form in a Henschel or in a roll mill prior to being fed into a melt blending device such as an extruder or Buss kneader. It may be desirable to introduce the phenoxyphosphazene into the melt blending device in the form of a masterbatch. In such a process the masterbatch may be introduced into the melt blending device downstream of the point where the organic polymer is introduced.

A melt blend is one where at least a portion of the polycarbonate and or polylactide has reached a temperature greater than or equal to the melting temperature if the resin is a semi crystalline organic polymer or the flow point e.g. the glass transition temperature if the resin is an amorphous resin during the blending process. A dry blend is one where the entire mass of organic polymer is at a temperature less than or equal to the melting temperature if the resin is a semi crystalline organic polymer or at a temperature less than or equal to the flow point if the organic polymer is an amorphous resin and wherein organic polymer is substantially free of any liquid like fluid during the blending process. A solution blend as defined herein is one where the polycarbonate and or polylactide is suspended in a liquid like fluid such as for example a solvent or a non solvent during the blending process.

The moldable flame retardant composition comprising may be subject to multiple blending and forming steps if desirable. For example the moldable composition may first be extruded and formed into pellets. The pellets may then be fed into a molding machine where it may be formed into any desirable shape or product. Alternatively the moldable composition emanating from a single melt blender may be formed into sheets or strands and subjected to post extrusion processes such as annealing uniaxial or biaxial orientation.

Solution blending may also be used to manufacture the moldable composition. The solution blending may also use additional energy such as shear compression ultrasonic vibration or the like to promote homogenization of the flame retardant with the polycarbonate and the polylactide.

The compositions were tested for one or more of the following UL 94 flame retardance Izod impact strength melt viscosity and heat deflection temperature. The details of these tests used in the examples are known to those of ordinary skill in the art and may be summarized as follows 

Flammability tests were performed following the procedure of Underwriter s Laboratory Bulletin 94 entitled Tests for Flammability of Plastic Materials UL 94 . Several ratings can be applied based on the rate of burning time to extinguish ability to resist dripping and whether or not drips are burning. Samples for testing are bars having dimensions of 125 mm lengthx13 mm width by no greater than 13 mm thickness. Bar thicknesses were 0.6 mm or 0.8 mm. Materials can be classified according to this procedure as UL 94 HB horizontal burn V0 V1 V2 5VA and or 5VB on the basis of the test results obtained for five samples however the compositions herein were tested and classified only as V0 V1 and V2 the criteria for each of which are described below.

V0 In a sample placed so that its long axis is 180 degrees to the flame the period of flaming and or smoldering after removing the igniting flame does not exceed ten 10 seconds and the vertically placed sample produces no drips of burning particles that ignite absorbent cotton. Five bar flame out time is the flame out time for five bars each lit twice in which the sum of time to flame out for the first t1 and second t2 ignitions is less than or equal to a maximum flame out time t1 t2 of 50 seconds.

V1 In a sample placed so that its long axis is 180 degrees to the flame the period of flaming and or smoldering after removing the igniting flame does not exceed thirty 30 seconds and the vertically placed sample produces no drips of burning particles that ignite absorbent cotton. Five bar flame out time is the flame out time for five bars each lit twice in which the sum of time to flame out for the first t1 and second t2 ignitions is less than or equal to a maximum flame out time t1 t2 of 250 seconds.

V2 In a sample placed so that its long axis is 180 degrees to the flame the average period of flaming and or smoldering after removing the igniting flame does not exceed thirty 30 seconds but the vertically placed samples produce drips of burning particles that ignite cotton. Five bar flame out time is the flame out time for five bars each lit twice in which the sum of time to flame out for the first t1 and second t2 ignitions is less than or equal to a maximum flame out time t1 t2 of 250 seconds.

In an embodiment the flame retardant compositions are of particular utility in the manufacture flame retardant articles that pass the UL94 vertical burn tests in particular the UL94 5VB standard. In the UL94 vertical burn test a flame is applied to a vertically fastened test specimen placed above a cotton wool pad. To achieve a rating of 5VB burning must stop within 60 seconds after five applications of a flame to a test bar and there can be no drips that ignite the pad. Various embodiments of the compositions described herein meet the UL94 5VB standard.

Melt Volume Rate MVR is used to determine the flowability of plastic melt. MVR was determined at 260 C. using 2.16 kg of load with a dwell time of 360 s per ASTM D1238. The results are reported in cm 10 min.

Izod Impact Strength is used to compare the impact resistances of plastic materials. NII was determined at 23 C. using a 3.2 mm thick molded notched Izod impact bar. It was determined per ASTM D256. The results are reported in joules meter.

Heat deflection temperature HDT is a relative measure of a material s ability to perform for a short time at elevated temperatures while supporting a load. The test measures the effect of temperature on stiffness a standard test specimen is given a defined surface stress and the temperature is raised at a uniform rate. HDT was determined when measured at 1.82 MPa loading with a sample thickness of 3.2 millimeters. Results are reported in degree centigrade.

The following example demonstrates the flame retardant composition and methods of manufacturing it. The ingredients used in the flame retardant composition are shown in the Table 1 below. As can be seen the polycarbonate is a blend of two polycarbonate homopolymers one having a molecular weight of 21 900 Daltons and the other having a molecular weight of 29 900 Daltons. The phosphazene compound was used in an amount of 10 wt based on the total weight of the composition.

The processing conditions molding conditions compositions and properties are shown in the Tables 2 3 4 and 5 respectively.

The compounding was conducted on a WP 7 barrel 30 mm twin screw extruder having 7 barrels. The temperature for each of the barrels is detailed in the Table 2. The molding conditions are detailed in the Table 3.

The polycarbonate polylactide and the impact modifier were fed from main throat from upper stream. All additives mold release agent antioxidants and the like were pre blended with the polycarbonate powder in a super blender and then fed into the extruder. The molding conditions are detailed in the Table 3.

The composition along with the properties is detailed in the Table 4. The compositions of Table 4 are all comparative compositions as they do not contain the phenoxyphosphazene flame retardants. The test standards for which the properties were measured are detailed in the Table 5.

The compositions were all compounded from twin screw extruder and the pellets were collected for evaluation and molding. In the Table 4 below Sample s 1 3 are comparative samples while Sample s 4 and 5 include the disclosed compositions.

From the Table 4 is may be seen that the compositions of Sample s 4 and 5 display superior impact properties notched Izod and higher heat distortion temperatures when compared with the comparative compositions. From the examples above it may be seen that the flame retardant composition displays a heat distortion temperature greater than 85 C. specifically greater than 90 C. while at the same time displaying a notched Izod impact strength of greater than or equal to 250 joules meter specifically greater than or equal to 400 joules meter and specifically greater than or equal to 500 joules meter. The impact strength of the flame retardant composition is at least 100 greater than the impact strength of comparative compositions that contain all the same ingredients in the same amounts except for the presence of the phenoxyphosphazene flame retardants.

The flame retardant compositions that utilize the phenoxyphosphazene flame retardant display a flame retardancy of V 0 when measured as per the UL 94 protocol. The composition has a MVR of at least 13 cc 10 minutes when measured at 260 C. 2.16 Kg per ASTM D1238 and a UL 94 rating of at least V 0 at 2.0 mm specifically at 2.5 mm and more specifically at 3.0 mm.

As may be seen in the example above the flame retardant composition has a flame retardancy of V 0 V 1 or V 2 at various thicknesses when tested according to the UL 94 protocol. The sample thickness can be 0.3 millimeter or less specifically 0.4 millimeter or less specifically 0.8 millimeter or less specifically 1.0 mm or less specifically 1.2 mm or less specifically 1.5 mm or less specifically 1.8 mm or less specifically 2.0 mm or less specifically 3.0 mm or less.

In another embodiment the flame retardant composition can have a flame retardancy of V 0 V 1 or V 2 at various thicknesses when tested according to the UL94 protocol. The sample thickness can be 0.3 millimeter or greater specifically 0.4 millimeter or greater specifically 0.8 millimeter or greater specifically 1.0 mm or greater specifically 1.2 mm or greater specifically 1.5 mm or greater specifically 1.8 mm or greater specifically 2.0 mm or greater when tested according to the UL94 protocol. At all of these thicknesses the flame retardant composition can display a flame retardancy of V 0 V 1 or V 2 depending the selected composition.

In general the compositions and articles disclosed herein can alternatively comprise consist of or consist essentially of any appropriate components herein disclosed. The compositions and articles can additionally or alternatively be formulated so as to be devoid or substantially free of any components materials ingredients adjuvants or species used in the prior art compositions or that are otherwise not necessary to the achievement of the function and or objectives of the present compositions.

All ranges disclosed herein are inclusive of the endpoints and the endpoints are independently combinable with each other. Combination is inclusive of blends mixtures alloys reaction products and the like. Furthermore the terms first second and the like herein do not denote any order quantity or importance but rather are used to denote one element from another. The terms a and an and the herein do not denote a limitation of quantity and are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. Or means and or. Reference throughout the specification to one embodiment another embodiment an embodiment and so forth means that a particular element e.g. feature structure and or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment described herein and may or may not be present in other embodiments. In addition it is to be understood that the described elements may be combined in any suitable manner in the various embodiments.

While the invention has been described with reference to some embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

