---

title: Method and apparatus for attack resistant mesh networks
abstract: A method, apparatus, and system for improved approaches for allowing new links of a mesh network to be formed during an attack of the network are described. The method includes selectively initiating a plurality of communication session establishment procedures to share connection information over a plurality of respective paths with a node of a mesh network, at least one of the paths being separated from the mesh network, wherein the connection information is used to establish one link of the mesh network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264892&OS=09264892&RS=09264892
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09264892
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130703
---
Networking technologies using mesh techniques such as mobile ad hoc network MANET offer users the promise of increased reliability security and resistance to attack owing to the avoidance of relying on only a small number of critical infrastructure components. Additionally mesh networks may utilize spread spectrum technologies such as frequency hopping and Direct Sequence Code Division Multiple Access DS CDMA to provide further resistance to attack e.g. signal jamming . However mesh networking technologies particularly MANETs utilizing spread spectrum wireless communications may be unable to establish new links due to attacks such as signal jamming. For instance jamming of communication channels during a handshake phase may prevent nodes of a mesh network from sharing connection information necessary to establish jamming resistant links between nodes. In another example jamming may prevent nodes of a mesh network from detecting each other thereby preventing establishment of new links within a mesh network.

Therefore there is a need for approaches allowing new links of a mesh network to be formed during an attack of the network particularly a signal jamming of the network.

A preferred method apparatus and system for allowing new links of a mesh network to be formed during an attack of the network are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments provide an approach to resolving a seeming impasse which arises when one tries to apply signal jamming remediation techniques to a wireless mobile ad hoc network or MANET. In this section we describe this impasse and an approach for resolution. But before elaborating on the nature and specifics of this seeming impasse and the resolution approach we first provide an overview of some of the factors and considerations motivating embodiments of the invention.

Many existing commercial wireless communications systems employ communications techniques which are vulnerable to efficient stealthy signal jamming. An adversary possessing knowledge of the carrier frequency of transmission and symbol keying approach may easily and efficiently introduce corrupting symbols to intentionally jam or obscure legitimate messages without resorting to high power barrage jamming which can be expensive and easy to detect and locate . Some concern has been raised over the danger of employing wireless techniques that are vulnerable to intentional signal jamming as the basis for public safety networks. Technologies that could be vulnerable to jamming include Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA which may employ many closely spaced fairly narrow band subcarriers.

In contrast to commonly used relatively narrow band wireless approaches which are vulnerable to signal jamming a number of so called spread spectrum techniques are available which provide a much higher degree of resilience against signal jamming. Spread spectrum techniques frequently use very wide band noise like signals often with low power density per unit of spectrum. Spread spectrum techniques include for example Frequency Hopping Spread Spectrum FHSS and Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum DSSS . An example of the latter is Direct Sequence Code Division Multiple Access DS CDMA . Spread spectrum techniques may effectively smear the transmitted information across a wide frequency band a band that is much wider than what is theoretically needed to carry a given transmission channel. Spread spectrum techniques furthermore allow several independent channels of communication to cohabit the same frequency band without mutual interference thus realizing channel multiplexing. In addition to spread spectrum s advantage of jamming resilience spread spectrum can provide other advantages such as the potential for a radio receiver system to correlate and coherently sum several received multipath signals in order to obtain enhanced signal to noise ratio.

Another consideration in the design of a public safety network or other secure network is whether there are on the one hand but a few key critical infrastructure components that could be compromised by an adversary or if on the other hand a very large number of components provide sufficient redundancy such that compromise by the adversary would be far more difficult and impractical. Mesh networks particularly MANETs comprised of often mobile nodes are attractive due to the robustness that commonly results from the potentially large number of routing nodes and myriad alternative pathways over which packets can be routed from source to destination. Because of this richness of redundancy in network components and alternative routes MANET technology is of potential value in the technology mix of future public safety networks perhaps playing the role of a crisis mode adjunct to a baseline cell oriented system. MANETs also may have great agility allowing impromptu ad hoc network deployments to be made as needs arise.

The above considerations of i the robustness against jamming attacks that characterizes spread spectrum technology and ii the desirable features of agility and redundancy inherent in MANET mesh technology leads us to consider wireless networks especially emergency or public safety networks that fuse spread spectrum technology together with MANET mesh technology. This fusion of mesh MANET with spread spectrum communications thus forms a focus in the following discussions.

MANET networking frequently involves network nodes that can be constantly moving around in space. For example a MANET node might be embedded in a vehicle e.g. a taxi or a hand held device. Some nodes could play the role of routing intermediaries while other nodes act as terminal nodes. Nodes in a MANET often have a dual character and play the simultaneous roles of both terminal nodes and routing intermediaries carrying traffic originating and terminating on other endpoints. Since nodes frequently move about and communications is typically relatively short range it is common for a pair of nodes which previously had no direct communication link to come into radio range of each other and to establish a new communication link. Such communication links are commonly at the Data Link layer or Layer 2 of the Open Systems Interconnection OSI network reference model. Conversely as nodes move about pairs of nodes who share existing direct communication links may lose contact or experience degraded communications performance as they go out of radio range with each other. Thus MANETs may be characterized by ever changing network connectivity topology with Layer 2 links between pairs of nodes being established and broken on a continual on going basis.

A general feature common to spread spectrum technologies e.g. FHSS DSSS DS CDMA etc. is that for two nodes to be able to communicate with each other they agree upon a pseudo random sequence of numerical values or perhaps a shared random key or seed value that specifies the agreed upon pseudo random sequence. In the case of frequency hopping FHSS the pseudo random sequence plays the role of a frequency hopping schedule. This schedule may dictate how the transmitter hops about in frequency space how the receiver likewise hops in order to track the transmission and how the receiver demodulates it. In the case of other spread spectrum technique like DS CDMA the pseudo random number or PN sequence may define a high rate random looking bit sequence known as the chip bits which is composited with the lower rate message bits to form a transmitted signal that looks like noise and effectively spreads the transmission across a very wide band. One important thing to observe is that despite the fact that the low level details of techniques like FHSS and DSSS are very different they have the common property of relying upon the receiver and transmitter possessing a shared knowledge of a pseudo random sequence.

The pseudo random sequence used by a sender receiver pair communicating via a spread spectrum technique effectively defines in one embodiment a private communications channel. If one is not privy to the details of this pseudo random sequence then one cannot track and demodulate the message bits. Likewise if an adversary is not privy to the details of the pseudo random sequence then they will not be able to lock onto the channel and efficiently introduce confusing symbols to accomplish a jamming attack. Conversely if the adversary somehow knew the details of the sequence they would be able to effectively lock onto the transmission and jam it. Therefore it is of great importance that the details of the key which in some embodiments defines the pseudo random sequence be a secret that is shared only by the sender and receiver in each given node pair.

In light of the above discussion it is clear that as nodes in the MANET network move about and a pair of nodes may come into radio range of each other. Additionally it is clear that in some embodiments the nodes will establish a shared secret in order for them to establish a private jamming resistant spread spectrum wireless communication channel. This secret could be a large random number or character string which specifies pins down or seeds the pseudo random sequence which characterizes the private spread spectrum channel over which they will communicate data traffic. For full duplex communication between a given pair of nodes they may establish two such shared secrets in order to support two private channels over which the node pair can converse simultaneously in both directions. We also note that in addition to the shared secret system clock time may be an important factor allowing both sending and receiving nodes to generate and utilize the same pseudo random sequence. Cryptographic techniques such as Diffie Hellman key exchange provide viable protocols that may allow a pair of nodes to establish a shared secret key in such a manner that an adversary is unable to deduce the shared secret even if the adversary is able to eavesdrop on the entire key exchange protocol dialog between the nodes. Diffie Hellman thus may protect the privacy of the established secret key. Given the shared secret the node pair may proceed to communicate using a chosen spread spectrum communications approach. Once the wireless communications link at the Data Link Layer is established mesh networking protocols may be used to update routing table information across the mesh to reflect the existence of the new link and allow the link to participate in packet routing over the mesh.

Given all of the above contextual discussion we now arrive at the crux of the problem Once the secret key exchange takes place the pair of nodes can then establish a jamming resilient private spread spectrum channel over which they can communicate. But if such a jamming resilient channel is able to exist only after the key exchange has occurred then how can the pair of nodes carry out the key exchange protocol in the first place in such a way that the exchange protocol is not vulnerable to jamming This represents the seeming impasse that needs to be resolved. In the following discussion we present three broad approaches for carrying out the secret key exchange handshake referring to these different approaches as Approach A Approach B and Approach C . We argue that a principle insight for resolving the above described seeming impasses is the realization that multiple such approaches to carrying out the key exchange handshakes must be available for use in combination.

The first approach which we ll call Approach A to handling the communications for carrying out the secret key exchange is to use any one of many available relatively narrow band wireless communications technologies for performing the key exchange. Or the key exchange handshake could occur over a spread spectrum channel which was established between the node pair via a key negotiation that itself is not robust against jamming attacks. Such technologies could include Wi Fi LTE OFDMA and the like. Approach A does not itself resolve the problem of how to make the key exchange protocol interaction robust against jamming since such relatively narrow band communications technologies are vulnerable to jamming. But we include Approach A as part of the technology mix because it is a useful approach to have available when jamming attacks are not in progress.

The second approach that we consider Approach B for carrying out the communications involved in secret key exchange is to assume that all nodes in the MANET system agree upon a specific channel or a plurality of specific channels that will be used solely for the purpose of carrying out key exchange handshakes between nodes that come into radio range. In the example the channel is a spread spectrum channel that is specified by a given pseudo random sequence of values which in turn is specified by a shared secret key or seed value. In this scenario all nodes participating in the MANET would have the value of the secret key which defines the special handshake channel stored in their internal memory. This approach to ensuring that the key exchange handshake between nodes is resilient against jamming attacks is only viable if all nodes in the system are hardened against an adversary reverse engineering one of the devices and discovering the baked in secret key. For if an adversary were to succeed in such a reverse engineering attack and they successfully discovered the secret key that defines the special handshake channel then that adversary would have the knowledge necessary to carry out an efficient jamming attack against key exchange handshakes between nodes. The effectiveness of this approach also depends upon organizations involved in the manufacture or initialization of node devices successfully guarding against insiders divulging such secret keys to an adversary. We also note that this approach of using a special commonly agreed upon channel for key exchange handshakes implies a managing of shared access to the channel by multiple nodes within radio range. Like any shared medium networking system Media Access Control or MAC techniques must be applied to manage the shared use of the special channel.

There are many approaches that could conceivably be pursued in order to harden node devices against a reverse engineering attack aimed at stealing the secret handshake keys. One such hardening technique would be to store secret keys internally in a node s volatile memory and using capacitance sensors to detect a physical breach of the device housing to wipe the volatile memory clean in the event that a physical breach is detected. Another approach to hardening a node device against attacks aimed at stealing the embedded secret key would be for the device to intentionally emit noisy radio frequency rf signals in order to mask rf emissions associated with computational operations so as to prevent an adversary from deducing the secret key by way of non intrusive observation of such computer processing rf emissions. While such node hardening techniques could make it quite difficult for all but the most sophisticated of adversaries to successfully breach the device and discover the secret handshake key or keys it seems highly desirable to have an alternative means of ensuring that the key exchange handshakes are not vulnerable to jamming attacks. It seems too risky to allow the efficacy of the jamming resilience of the whole system to all rest upon one secret key not falling into the hands of an adversary. That would represent a single point of vulnerability.

In the following we describe a third approach which we ll call Approach C to carrying out the key exchange handshake. This third approach includes embodiments designed in such a way that the exchange is resilient against jamming attempts. Furthermore some embodiments of this third approach discussed below do not depend upon node hardware being hardened against attempts to steal a secret contained within the nodes.

Some embodiments of the third approach for carrying out secret key exchange handshakes are applicable to scenarios where the mesh network is under jamming attack and allows the mesh to be sustained e.g. kept alive during such attacks. However some embodiments of this third approach are not applicable to mesh bootstrapping scenarios. We find that a satisfactory total solution in some embodiments rests upon the availability of a combination of different communications mechanisms for carrying out the key exchanges. Thus the resolution of the above described seeming impasse revolves around the realization that no single method for performing the key exchange handshake between nodes is adequate for handling all circumstances.

One such circumstance to be covered is the scenario where the mesh does not yet exist and must be bootstrapped into existence from a completely cold start as nodes first start coming into proximity. Another scenario is where an existing mesh is up and running but a new node is introduced to the mesh for the first time. From a cold unconnected state with no benefit of previous history within the mesh such a node may handshake with the neighboring nodes with which it comes into proximity. In these scenarios the bootstrapping of new nodes into a new or existing mesh depends upon the key exchange handshake occurring directly over a radio link between the nodes over a channel which is either vulnerable to jamming or which has moderate protection against jamming by the node hardening discussed above. Fortunately for mesh networks that are generally up and running at all times within a region most of the time intentional jamming attacks are not likely to be present. Most of the time hand shake channels that are not robust against jamming Approach A above or which are only moderately robust against jamming Approach B above will be adequate for bootstrapping new nodes into the mesh.

Now let s consider the scenario where at some moment in time the onset of an intentional jamming attack against the mesh network commences. At the moment of onset of the attack the mesh in the example will be up and running with a rich topology of interconnections between nodes already existing. In the example the existing point to point connections between peer nodes in the mesh will be comprised of jamming resilient spread spectrum wireless links. The onset of the jamming attack does not compromise the existing mesh of communications links. What may be compromised is the ability for new links to be formed as nodes move about due to the jamming attack interfering with the key exchange handshakes. In this exemplary attack in progress scenario a major priority is to sustain the existing mesh. This priority of keeping the existing mesh alive focuses not so much upon bootstrapping new nodes into the mesh but more upon allowing nodes that already belong to the mesh to form new peer to peer spread spectrum links as they move about in space. The basic idea of some embodiments of the Approach C is that even if a jamming attack is preventing a handshake protocol from being carried out over a direct wireless channel between a pair of nodes it is likely that the two nodes in question will be able to reach each other over an indirect multi hop routed path formed out of already existing jamming resilient spread spectrum channels. So long as the existing mesh has adequate spatial node density the richness of routing paths will ensure in the example that two nodes coming into proximity will be able to conduct a key exchange protocol over an indirect path.

So the seeming impasse of how to exchange keys in a jamming resilient manner when jamming resilient channels exist only after the key has been exchanged is resolved by inter alia allowing key exchanges to be performed over already established multi hop paths. Some embodiments of this approach achieves a sort of best of both worlds. The key exchange over direct point to point wireless channels supports bootstrapping new nodes into the mesh under normal operating conditions while key exchange over existing multi hop routes allows the sustaining of the mesh network during the extraordinary conditions of intentional jamming attacks.

One might imagine that the system could be designed to detect the presence of an attack which would allow for a sort of 2 mode model under ordinary conditions the direct key exchange approach would be used but upon detection of jamming the system could cut over to the multi hop key exchange approach. This detect and cutover strategy is one option. However in an alternative embodiment of the invention such detection followed by cutover strategy can be avoided. A less complex approach is for the mesh system to simply on an ongoing basis employ both direct and multi hop routing approaches concurrently for carrying out key exchanges between nodes that are in proximity.

In order to put the approach outlined above in perspective it is useful to look at the proposed jamming remediation solution in the context of the standard Open Systems Interconnection OSI 7 layer networking reference model. In an exemplary mesh network the Layer 3 Network Layer routing is built over top the many Layer 2 data links that are established in point to point fashion between node pairs within radio range. In most networking systems Layer 2 mechanisms exist autonomously as a substrate upon which higher layers can be built. In the exemplary jamming resilient MANET network this autonomy of the Layer 2 data links is only adhered to when we restrict the key exchanges to the direct point to point approach. When we add the notion that existing multi hop routed paths can be used for key exchange handshakes in order to counter jamming attacks we create a somewhat unconventional interaction between Layers 2 and 3. When key exchange occurs between two nodes via the multi hop route a Layer 3 capability is being leveraged for the purpose of providing an assist to Layer 2 in establishing a communications link at the Data Link Layer. Some might object to such a reverse direction dependency of Layer 2 upon Layer 3. One consolation is that the bootstrapping of new nodes into the mesh does in fact follow the more conventional strict layering where the data link must come first before routing can happen and not the reverse . Another thing which can help make the proposed somewhat unconventional layer 2 3 interaction more palatable is to refrain from having Layer 2 technology stack logic within nodes make any calls up to Layer 3 of the stack for purposes of fetching newly exchanged shared keys established through Layer 3 routing. Rather we propose that the multi hop routing mechanism for key exchange which occurs at Layer 3 or above should in the example result in calls down to a Layer 2 interface. Such a Layer 2 interface allows the higher layers to essentially provide Layer 2 in the node s stack with hints of what secret keys might be tried in order to establish new data links.

By using an approach to key exchange that involves communication over multi hop routed paths it is conceivable that pairs of nodes which are far out of radio range of each other may engage in a key exchange. Such a scenario would be in may cases highly wasteful both in terms of the effort of exchanging keys over the multi hop paths but also in terms of the fruitless effort of nodes trying to establish spread spectrum channels with other nodes that are completely out of radio range. It is clear that the multi hop key exchange handshaking should be much more selective and limited to node pairs which stand a reasonable chance of being able to directly communicate with each other via point to point radio link. It may be beneficial to possess physical location awareness in order for the Layer 3 key exchanges to happen intelligently. One of the features of packet networking is the fact that physical location may be largely abstracted away and behavior is largely location agnostic.

In one embodiment for jamming resilient mesh networks such location awareness may be somehow restored. One approach for introducing the location awareness is to embed Global Positioning System GPS technology into node devices in order that nodes are aware in real time of their geo spatial coordinates. We propose that mesh routing maintenance protocols be augmented in some embodiments in order that node location information is propagated across the mesh in order that each node maintains an awareness of the other nodes spatial locations. Routing tables within each node would be augmented so that node identities are mapped not only onto next hop information but also onto location coordinates of each node and or physical distance to each node. With this location or distance information in place we can implement a sort of physical distance constrained multicast. One can imagine an API Application Programming Interface function at or above Layer 3 which allows one to send data to all nodes located within a specified maximum physical radius of the sending node. Such a distance constrained multicast function would by using the distance data stored in the augmented routing tables simply perform multiple unicast sends of the data to all nodes located within a specified physical radius which in practice would be on the order of typical radio range of the sending node. In one implementation the sending node would not perform an exhaustive search through all nodes in the routing table to find the nodes within radio range as an optimization each node could for example maintain a hash set containing the identities of all the other nodes currently located within approximate radio range.

With some embodiments of this approach to physical distance constrained multicast in place we imagine a process in place at Layer 3 or above which would on a regular basis send out key exchange information over indirect multi hop routes to all nodes within approximate radio range. And concurrently at Layer 2 similar key exchange information would also be sent in some embodiments out via direct wireless broadcast or direct point to point wireless links to other nodes within radio range on a regular basis. In this way we realize the above discussed strategy of engaging in both direct and multi hop key exchange and accommodating both node bootstrapping scenarios and mesh sustaining during attack scenarios. And as mentioned the multi hop key exchange occurring at or above Layer 3 may make calls down to Layer 2 of the node s communication stack in order to pass down hints to Layer 2 of channels to try establishing at the Data Link layer.

The above described physical distance constrained multicast approach of sending key exchange handshake information to nearby nodes which depends upon the ongoing maintenance of location and or distance information in routing tables on every node is not the only conceivable embodiment of the general strategy of Layer 3 key exchange handshaking. In an alternative exemplary embodiment a sort of Layer 3 broadcast approach would be used. The idea is that at OSI Layer 3 or above a process on each node would repeatedly e.g. periodically send out a broadcast message that would fan out recursively across the mesh such broadcast message carrying the physical location coordinates of the sending node along with the key exchange e.g. Diffie Hellman information necessary for accomplishing the key exchange handshake. In some embodiments such a broadcast could exhaustively span all nodes in the mesh. In other embodiments the broadcast could be constrained to some reasonable upper hop count limit e.g. by sending a TTL Time To Live count in the broadcast message decrementing the TTL count by 1 each time the message is forwarded and ceasing message forwarding when the TTL count drops to 0. Many embodiments would also take precautions against infinite message looping using well known techniques. Upon receiving such a broadcast message each node in some embodiments would in addition to performing any TTL calculations and message forwarding operations calculate the Euclidean distance from itself to the location of the sending node. If the so calculated physical distance is less than some agreed upon approximate radio range then the node which receives the broadcast message will proceed in some embodiments to use the received key exchange handshake information to attempt to complete the establishment of a spread spectrum Layer 2 data link with the sending node if such a link does not already exist. If the physical distance exceeds the agreed upon approximate radio range then the receiving node will in some embodiments only engage in message forwarding but will otherwise ignore the broadcast message.

Summarizing we have at least two alternative embodiments specifically i the physical distance constrained multicast approach where routing tables at every node maintain on an ongoing basis the coordinates of or physical distance to every other node in the mesh and each node selectively sends Layer 3 unicast messages containing handshake information to every other node within a threshold range according to the sender s routing table distance information and ii the Layer 3 broadcast approach in which each node sends out a message containing the handshake information and the sender s physical location such message gets recursively propagated across the mesh in either hop count constrained or unconstrained fashion and each receiving node decides based upon its own coordinates and the coordinates of the message sender whether to ignore the message or proceed with an attempt to establish a Layer 2 link with the sender.

In one exemplary embodiment of the invention a Diffie Hellman approach would be employed for a pair of nodes to establish a shared secret key which specifies a unique spread spectrum channel between the pair. Essentially the same key exchange technique would be carried out by both the Layer 2 direct approach and the Layer 3 multi hop approach discussed above. With an exemplary Diffie Hellman key exchange approach all nodes in the mesh would store and use a commonly agreed upon large prime number p and a number g which is a so called generator of the modular integer group of order p . The integers p and g are not secrets. Furthermore each node n would create e.g. using a hardware based true random number generator and store a pair of large random positive integers less than p which we will call x n and y n. These integers x n and y n are maintained as secrets known only to node n . The reason why there are two such integers is so that we can establish two shared secrets and two spread spectrum channels between each pair of nodes thus allowing the support of full duplex communications. Node n would also calculate and store the pair of integers X n and Y n where X n is defined as g x n mod p Y n is defined as g y n mod p and the symbol denotes raising the left hand operand to the power indicated by the right hand operand.

In the above discussion we referred to the processes at Layers 2 and 3 or above as regularly sending out key exchange information to neighboring nodes via the direct and multi hop approaches. Stated more concretely when using the Diffie Hellman approach the key exchange information that each node sends to its neighbors is the triplet ID n X n Y n where ID n denotes the identifier by which node n is known within the mesh network and X n and Y n are defined above. Each node n maintains an associative data structure e.g. a hash which maps node identifiers ID m of neighbors m onto exchanged secret keys for the node pair n m . When Layer 2 code of node n receives the triplet ID m X m Y m from node m it will calculate the numbers S n m and R n m where these are defined as S n m X m y n mod p and R n m Y m x n mod p . Node n will store in the above mentioned associative data structure the pair S n m R n m as the value associated with the hash key ID m. As an optimization node n may first check whether it already stores an association for neighbor ID m and if so it can skip the step of re calculating and storing the pair S n m and R n m. The pair S n m R n m represent the secret keys that node n may use in order to establish the private spread spectrum channels which it will use for respectively sending data to and receiving data from node m. Using this same approach node m may also obtain a quantity R m n that is the same as S n m and will obtain a quantity S m n that is the same as R n m. In other words the nodes n and m may arrive at a common secret that will be used for node m to send data to node n and another common secret that node n will use to send data to node m . Once a node n establishes a new triplet ID m S n m R n m it can start sending out data link initialization pings to node m over the channel defined by S n m and it can start listening for data link initialization pings coming from node m over the channel defined by R n m. Once both the sending and receiving nodes possess the shared keys are talking listening on the so defined channels and complete an initialization handshake exchange the details of which could take on a variety of forms consistent with various embodiments of the invention the Layer 2 data link becomes established between the node pair. After the data links in both directions are established then the link may become fully operational for full duplex communication.

Summarizing we have arrived at the following picture of a jamming resilient mesh network The exemplary MANET mesh packet routing network is layered over a Data Link Layer consisting of point to point wireless communications links between nodes each such communication link being based upon a private spread spectrum channel. The establishment of each such exemplary spread spectrum channel between a given node pair is based on the execution of a key exchange protocol between the nodes of the pair. At least 3 different communications approaches let s call them Approaches A B and C can be adopted for carrying out such key exchange hand shakes between nodes and indeed multiple such approaches can and should be used in parallel in order to provide mesh operation and robustness under a variety of scenarios. Approach A for carrying out such key exchange handshakes uses a narrow band technology for example 802.11 OFDMA or such with the understanding that while such handshake channels may be adequate for establishing links under normal operating conditions these channels may be rendered inoperable in the face of a jamming attack. Approach B for performing the key exchange handshakes consists of using designated special spread spectrum channels between pairs of nodes such special channels being dedicated to the role of handshake interactions they may play no role in bearing the actual data and signaling traffic that passes over the established link during the course of mesh operation. These special spread spectrum channels are specified by one or more secret keys that are baked into node hardware and resistance against jamming attacks relies upon adversaries not discovering the secrets that define the special channels. Some embodiments of Approach C for performing the key exchange handshakes use existing Layer 3 multi hop routed paths between a pair of nodes in order to carry the handshake data. Some embodiments of Approach C can furthermore utilize spatial location technology such as GPS or other physical distance estimation techniques in order for the mesh to make informed decisions of which nodes are within approximate radio range and should carry out secret key exchanges. And still further we have described two alternative embodiments of Approach C which are based upon i maintenance of physical distance information in node routing tables and selective distance constrained multicast and ii Layer 3 recursive broadcast of sender location and handshake information across the mesh wherein receiving nodes ignore or act upon the message based upon coordinates of sender and receiver. The use of a combination of the above key exchange communications approaches ensures that both bootstrapping of nodes and the sustaining of the mesh in the presence of signal jamming attempts can be supported.

As used herein a communication channel may be established using any communication protocol and technology e.g. a near field communication NFC for instance LTE BLUETOOTH WIFI WIMAX peer to peer P2P multicast and the like . In another embodiment the communication channel utilizes a secure tunneling protocol to establish a secure path through data network and or wireless network . Additionally the communication channel may be established using auto pairing technologies such as ANDROID BEAM. Although NFC may be considered as being of little use as a data link medium in a wireless mesh since the range is limited to a few centimeters NFC can play a role during the key exchange handshake phase necessary for creation of jamming resilient data links. For example if one imagines a scenario where emergency responders have a cache of several rapidly deployable mesh node devices on their persons or stowed in their vehicles the mesh data links amongst such nodes could be established via NFC e.g. literally bumping the devices together with each other. Such a cache of rapidly deployable nodes could thus already form a mesh network among themselves prior to being deployed in the field and being linked in to a larger mesh. In some embodiments the communication channel may be separated from the communication network for instance by utilizing different communication protocols technologies frequency channels media and the like.

As mentioned users e.g. emergency responders benefit from reliable secure and resilient mesh networks to exchange data. However wireless links may become unreliable if interference or jamming occurs and as nodes e.g. move. The continual breaking of data links between node pairs as nodes move out of communication range is indeed a normal occurrence in the operation of MANET mesh networks. Consequently establishment of other links may be necessary to circumvent the source of the disruption. The discovery of potential new links of a mesh network and establishment of new links frequently cause an exchange of information e.g. via Diffie Hellman key exchange . Such an exchange of information typically utilizes communication channels that are vulnerable e.g. narrow band to targeted network attacks such as jamming. As such maintaining secure mesh networks particularly adding new links to an existing mesh network in some instances may be prevented by such network attacks.

To address this issue the system of introduces the capability of exchanging connection information such as a security key e.g. a secret key that specifies a spread spectrum private channel and which is established among a pair of nodes via Diffie Hellman key exchange on a pathway of one or more existing links connecting nodes . New links of communication network may be formed in some instances even during a network attack by utilizing spread spectrum techniques for example one or more embodiments of Approach C discussed above where key exchange occurs over multi hop paths traversing a number of separate spread spectrum data links. Further communication network or nodes may be configured to locate other nodes with which to establish a new link e.g. . By way of example node as part of a public emergency service broadcasts location information along with connection information to establish a secure connection to other nodes that are designated as emergency equipment via the pathway . This other emergency equipment receives the location and connection information and establishes the secure jamming resilient connection e.g. link .

As used herein nodes may be any type of terminal and or router including the computer system of the chip or chip set of a mobile handset mobile station mobile unit multimedia computer multimedia tablet communicator netbook Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone media receiver embedded electronics etc. Nodes may be mobile for instance deployed via air drop or attached to motor vehicles e.g. emergency vehicles or may be static for instance attached to structures e.g. buildings communication towers subway stations etc. It is also contemplated that nodes may support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchange of data. In addition nodes may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms accelerometer e.g. shaking nodes and the like. Any known and future implementations of nodes are applicable. Furthermore nodes may be configured to utilize various protocols and routing such as for example MITRE s MMLDP MMRP MMBDP Better Approach to Mobile Ad hoc networking BATMAN OLSR ACOR AODC dynamic source routing dynamic MANET on demand routing IERP RDMAR ZRP CBRP FSR IMEP and the like.

According to certain embodiments the communication network and or nodes may interact with a public safety network such as public safety core . The public safety core may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. By way of example the public safety core may include an administrative system to ensure that public safely users have adequate capacity and service and an interoperability center to ensure that first responders nationwide can communicate with each other. It is contemplated that public safety core could benefit from communication network particularly when utilizing the methods and embodiments illustrated in .

Additionally or alternatively the communication network and or nodes may interact with one or more networks such as the data network the telephony network the wireless network and or the service provider network . The networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network. For example computing device may be any suitable computing device such as a VoIP phone skinny client control protocol SCCP phone session initiation protocol SIP phone IP phone personal computer softphone workstation terminal server etc. The telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. For instance voice station may be any suitable plain old telephone service POTS device facsimile machine etc. Meanwhile the wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. As shown the wireless network interacts with mobile devices .

According to certain embodiments mobile devices may be any type of mobile terminal including a mobile handset mobile station mobile unit multimedia computer multimedia tablet communicator netbook Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone media receiver etc. It is also contemplated that mobile devices may support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchange of data. In addition mobile devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms accelerometer e.g. shaking the mobile device and the like. Any known and future implementations of mobile devices are applicable. It is noted that in certain embodiments mobile devices may be configured to transmit information e.g. audio signals words address etc. using a variety of technologies e.g. NFC BLUETOOTH infrared etc. Also connectivity may be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of mobile devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each mobile device e.g. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

Although depicted as separate entities the networks and core may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance the service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that the networks and core may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of the system . In this manner the networks and core may embody or include portions of a signaling system SS network IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

While specific reference will be made thereto it is contemplated that the system may embody many forms and include multiple and or alternative components and facilities.

The controller executes at least one algorithm for executing functions of node . For example the controller interacts with the communication interface to identify and exchange data traffic for instance indicating information for establishing a new link. The controller may additionally or alternatively interact with the communication channel module to discover and exchange connection information for new links and may interact with the link module to maintain and generate new links .

The routing module is configured to facilitate an exchange of network traffic with other nodes e.g. nodes of the communication network and nodes of the public safety core and the one or more networks . For instance the routing module maintains a routing table indicating pathways and tunnels for routing. In some embodiments the routing tables are continuously maintained and may include location information from a space based satellite location system for instance global positioning system GPS .

Terminal function module may optionally be included and configured to perform various terminal device functions. For instance the node may include display input and cursor control as illustrated in and be configured to send and receive messages to computing device via links of communication network .

Discovery module is configured to determine whether to establish a new link of communication network . In one embodiment the discovery module works with routing module to determine a proximity of one node to another node based on routing information. For instance discovery module attempts to establish a link with node when it determines that only two node links separate nodes and . The rationale of this approach is that on purely geometric grounds a pair of nodes that are 2 network hops from each other are roughly speaking at most a physical distance of 2R from each other where R is the typical radio communications range. But they could be closer than 2R for example when the two nodes and the intermediate node connecting them are not all co linear and or when each of the nodes and is less than the distance R from the intermediate node. So the 2 hop criterion has a reasonable chance of finding nodes that might be within the distance R of each other. But since this approach only considers nodes separated by 2 hops this approach would miss node pairs that are separated by longer chains of intermediate links but which happen to nevertheless be physically close.

Additionally or alternatively the discovery module determines a proximity based on location information. Such information may optionally be included in a routing table for instance maintained by routing module and may include location information from a space based satellite location system for instance GPS and triangulation techniques. Additionally location information may be continuous real time near real time periodic etc. For instance discovery module continuously or in near real time monitors nodes e.g. within a broadcast range of node using real time GPS information of the nodes and initiates an establishment of a new link with nodes within the broadcast range. In some instances location information indicates a hex cell region for each node e.g. .

Communication channel module works with link module to exchange connection information for establishing and maintaining links . In one embodiment the communication channel module utilizes a special secret channel defined and used solely for exchanging connection information for establishing and maintaining links . For instance the special channels may be formed using a set of symbols among a large set of corrupting symbols of a known or unknown channel. Additionally the set of symbols may be stored in volatile memory to restrict access. Further countermeasures such as masking via intentional emission of noise by electronics may be used to further harden against reverse engineering of communication channel module and or node

In some embodiments the communication channel module utilizes communication session establishment procedures to convey connection information e.g. key exchange handshake information to a node . Additionally the communication channel module may directly convey such connection information. For instance a signal on a direct channel may not relayed by another node but is instead transmitted only by one of the nodes e.g. and received by only one other of the nodes e.g. . In one embodiment the communication channel module designates paths with a node e.g. of a mesh network as a direct or indirect channel. For instance the communication channel module determines a path includes at least one of the nodes that is neither the originator nor an intended recipient of connection information and designates the path as indirect.

Communication channel module may additionally or alternatively be configured to determine or detect cutover activity e.g. a jamming attack on a communication channel determined by the communication channel module . In one embodiment the communication channel module is configured to detect signals preventing an exchange of information on communication channels. For instance the communication channel module may work with the communication interface to determine whether a signal substantially overlapping frequency bands used by the communication channel module prevents or otherwise limits an exchange of information on the channel such as a jamming signal. It is contemplated that a signal may substantially overlap a frequency band when the signal is present in at least 60 or 70 of the frequency band or at least 80 or 90 of the frequency band. In another embodiment the communication channel module is configured to monitor an elapsed time after connection information is transmitted to determine cutover activity on the communication channel. For instance the communication channel module may work with the communication interface to determine whether within a predefined amount of time an acknowledgment is received on the communication channel or a link is established using connection information transmitted on the communion channel. Additionally the communication channel module may determine to cutover from a first channel to a second channel based on the cutover activity. For instance the communication channel module works with the link module to initiate an indirect channel when the communication channel module determines cutover activity on a direct channel e.g. the special secret channel .

In yet another embodiment the communication channel is unaware of an inability to exchange information cutout activity and of links . As such the communication channel module may concurrently initiate at least two communication session establishment procedures e.g. direct and indirect channels concurrently to convey connection information.

Link module is configured to work with communication channel module to determine signal parameters for establishing and maintaining links . For instance link module generates signal parameters for a new or existing link and transmits the signal parameters using communication interface on a channel indicated by communication channel module . In some instances the link module may periodically randomly or pseudo randomly generate and transmit such signal parameters to allow an ongoing key exchange handshake between peer nodes e.g. within range of each other.

Link module may determine signal parameters for various technologies e.g. spread spectrum agnostic such as for instance Direct Sequence Code Division Multiple Access DS CDMA and frequency hopping. As such link module may be configured to establish links to appear as random noise and spread data symbols of the links over a very wide band of spectrum. For instance link module may use a pseudo random sequence of chip bits known only to sender e.g. node and receiver e.g. node and combines the chip bits with data bits making a resulting signal more likely to be detected as noise. Additionally or alternatively link module may utilize frequency hopping techniques by for example setting a schedule controlled by a pseudo random sequence that indicates different frequencies on which data bits are to be exchanged. As such devices lacking the schedule are further restricted from detecting the data bits and from successfully jamming the channel containing the data bits. Furthermore such technologies may further reduce or eliminate the effectiveness of stealth jamming of a narrow spectrum. For instance a position of equipment jamming a large portion of spectrum may in many instances be comparatively easier to determine than equipment jamming a small portion of spectrum. As such a resistance to stealth jamming of a small portion of spectrum frequently provides adequate resistance to network attacks.

The node further includes a communication interface to communicate with nodes of communication network and other components of system . The communication interface may include multiple means of communication. For example the communication interface may be able to communicate over wired and or wireless broad band spread spectrum and or narrow band wireless technology encrypted or unencrypted secured or unsecured proprietary or not proprietary etc.

It is contemplated that to prevent unauthorized access node of communication network may include an authentication identifier when exchanging signals within communication network e.g. on links and when exchanging signals outside the network for instance with public safety core and the one or more networks . For instance control messages may be encrypted either symmetrically or asymmetrically such that a hash value for instance can be utilized to authenticate received images as well as ensure that those signals have not been impermissibly detected in transit. As such communications between nodes and with public safety core and the one or more networks may include various identifiers keys random numbers random handshakes digital signatures and the like.

Adverting to communication channel module of node selectively initiates as in step a plurality of communication session establishment procedures to share connection information over a plurality of respective paths with a node of a mesh network. For instance the communication channel module may initiate a direct communication session establishment procedure that is separated from mesh network to generate communication channel .

In some embodiments at least one of the paths is separated from the communication network . For instance as shown the communication channel being separated from communication network utilizes a narrow band technology e.g. orthogonal frequency division multiple access Wi Fi etc. on a special channel known to all nodes while the links of communication network utilize a spread spectrum technology e.g. DS CDMA and frequency hopping on a private channel between two of the nodes using a shared secret e.g. Diffie Hellman key known only to the two nodes. Additionally as shown routing between nodes on links utilizes a separate routing table and protocols than routing on communication channel . For instance routing module may maintain routing tables for exchanging network traffic of the mesh network on links and communication channel module may separately maintain other routing tables for exchanging network traffic via communication channel .

As illustrated in routing module of node may additionally or alternatively selectively initiate an indirect communication session establishment procedure that is of mesh network to generate a new link via link of the mesh network . For instance node transmits e.g. P2P multicast etc. one or more signal parameters of a spread spectrum signal for establishing a link between nodes and via the link and on pathway . Such a transmission may be broadcasted via for instance a P2P topology between nodes and or multicast to a plurality of nodes .

In some embodiments the communication channel module concurrently initiates an indirect communication session establishment procedure utilizing existing pathways e.g. links of the mesh network and steps and are omitted. For instance the node may be unaware of cutover activity e.g. a radio jamming signal and whether node has received connection information and may for instance periodically and concurrently send connection information on a communication channel e.g. and a link e.g. to convey connection information e.g. key exchange handshake information . Thus nodes e.g. may continue to succeed to share connection information via links without awareness of cutover activity e.g. a network attack thereby allowing a simpler implementation.

In some embodiments the communication channel module designates as in step a direct and indirect channel. For instance the communication channel module designates communication channel as a direct communication because signals utilizing the channel are not relayed and designates the pathway as indirect because signals utilizing the pathway are relayed by nodes .

The communication channel module may optionally cutover as in step from the direct to indirect channel based on cutover activity. In some embodiments cutover activity includes a jamming attack. For instance node detects a radio jamming signal overlapping one or more frequency bandwidths associated with a communication channel . Such detection of a radio jamming signal may be by for instance a direct analysis of radio frequency signals and or by indirect effects of an attack such as jumps in levels of packet re sent in transport layer 4. Additionally or alternatively cutover activity includes a determination to receive within a predefined period of time an indication that a node has received connection information. In one embodiment node broadcasts the connection information to node on the communication channel and determines to receive within a predefined period of time an indication that node has received the connection information. For example node broadcasts connection information to node and waits the predetermined time for node to initiate a link or send an acknowledgment via the communication channel . In some embodiments communication channel module initiates a communication session establishment procedure to share connection information on the designated indirect channel when cutover activity is detected. For instance communication channel module concurrently initiates a plurality of communication session establishment procedures including the indirect channel to share connection information on the designated indirect channel when cutover activity is detected. In another example the communication channel module ends or terminates the direct communication session establishment procedure and initiates to share connection information on the designated indirect channel when cutover activity is detected. It is noted that the communication channel module may initiate the indirect channel to share connection information prior to the termination of the direct channel to allow simultaneous or concurrent communication of the connection information.

Next and as illustrated in link module of node or establishes new link based on the connection information shared via link . For instance node establishes a spread spectrum signal with node using the received one or more signal parameters.

As seen in a mesh network has nodes connected by links . According to one embodiment the nodes may each include a controller routing module terminal function module discovery module communication channel module link module and communication interface . Additionally links utilize various attack resistant technologies such as for instance DS CDMA and frequency hopping. Mesh network may also be connected to a public safety core and one or more networks .

In step discovery module of node determines location information of a node of mesh network . For instance discovery module accesses a routing table of routing module to determine location information of node . In one embodiment such location information is derived from logical links connecting the nodes . For instance the discovery module may determine node to be proximate to node based on the location information of node and the detection of a link directly connecting nodes and . That is although node is outside a broadcast range of node node which is within a distance of node may be within the broadcast range . In another embodiment the discovery module determines a location of node based on broadcast information periodically transmitted on pathway . In some embodiments the location information may indicate a hex cell and proximity is based on the indicated cell. Next in step the discovery module of node determines a proximity to the node based on the location information. For instance the discovery module of node compares the determined location information of node with a current detected GPS location of node an estimated location of node based on triangulation data and the like. Next link module of node initiates as in step a sharing of connection information for a new link of the mesh network . For instance the discovery module of node works with communication channel module to establish a communication channel for transmitting connection information and or transmits the connection information via pathway for example as described in .

The processes described herein for providing an attack resistant mesh network may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. Additional output mechanisms may include haptics audio video etc. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball touch screen or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory e.g. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable improved approaches for allowing new links of a mesh network to be formed during an attack of the network. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

