---

title: Apoptosis-inducing agents for the treatment of cancer and immune and autoimmune diseases
abstract: Disclosed are compounds which inhibit the activity of anti-apoptotic Bcl-xL proteins, compositions containing the compounds and methods of treating diseases during which is expressed anti-apoptotic Bcl-xL protein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08883784&OS=08883784&RS=08883784
owner: AbbVie Inc.
number: 08883784
owner_city: North Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130812
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 682 370 filed Aug. 13 2012.

This invention pertains to compounds which inhibit the activity of Bcl xL anti apoptotic proteins compositions containing the compounds and methods of treating diseases during which anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins are expressed.

Apoptosis is recognized as an essential biological process for tissue homeostasis of all living species. In mammals in particular it has been shown to regulate early embryonic development. Later in life cell death is a default mechanism by which potentially dangerous cells e.g. cells carrying cancerous defects are removed. Several apoptotic pathways have been uncovered and one of the most important involves the Bcl 2 family of proteins which are key regulators of the mitochondrial also called intrinsic pathway of apoptosis. See Danial N. N. and Korsmeyer S. J. 2004 116 205 219. The structural homology domains BH1 BH2 BH3 and BH4 are characteristic of this family of proteins. The Bcl 2 family of proteins can be further classified into three subfamilies depending on how many of the homology domains each protein contains and on its biological activity i.e. whether it has pro or anti apoptotic function .

The first subgroup contains proteins having all 4 homology domains i.e. BH1 BH2 BH3 and BH4. Their general effect is anti apoptotic that is to preserve a cell from starting a cell death process. Proteins such as for example Bcl 2 Bcl w Bcl xL Mcl 1 and Bfl 1 A1 are members of this first subgroup. Proteins belonging to the second subgroup contain the three homology domains BH1 BH2 and BH3 and have a pro apoptotic effect. The two main representative proteins of this second subgroup are Bax and Bak. Finally the third subgroup is composed of proteins containing only the BH3 domain and members of this subgroup are usually referred to as BH3 only proteins. Their biological effect on the cell is pro apoptotic. Bim Bid Bad Bik Noxa Hrk Bmf and Puma are examples of this third subfamily of proteins. The exact mechanism by which the Bcl 2 family proteins regulate cell death is still not entirely known and understanding this mechanism is an active area of research in the science community. In one hypothesis of regulation of cell death by Bcl 2 family proteins the BH3 only proteins are further categorized as either activator e.g. Bim and Bid or sensitizer e.g. Bad Bik Noxa Hrk Bmf and Puma proteins depending on their regulatory function.

The key to tissue homeostasis is achieving the delicate balance in the interactions among the three subgroups of protein in cells. Recent studies have tried to elucidate the mechanisms by which pro apoptotic and anti apoptotic subgroups of Bcl 2 family proteins interact to allow a cell to undergo programmed cell death. After receiving intra or extracellular signals in cells post translational or transcriptional activation of BH3 only proteins occurs. The BH3 only proteins are the primary inducers of an apoptotic cascade that includes as one step the activation of the pro apoptotic proteins Bax and Bak on the mitochondrial membrane in cells. Upon activation of Bax and or Bak that are either already anchored to the mitochondrial membrane or migrate to this membrane Bax and or Bak oligomerize to result in mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization MOMP the release of cytochrome C and downstream activation of effector caspases to ultimately result in cell apoptosis. Some researchers hypothesize that certain BH3 only proteins e.g. Puma Bim Bid are activators in that these proteins directly engage pro apoptotic proteins Bax and Bak to initiate MOMP while other BH3 only proteins e.g. Bad Bik and Noxa are sensitizers and induce Bax and Bak oligomerization indirectly by binding anti apoptotic proteins e.g. Bcl 2 Bcl xL Bcl w Mcl 1 and displacing and freeing up the activator BH3 only proteins which subsequently bind to and activate pro apoptotic proteins e.g. Bax Bak to induce cell death. Other researchers suggest that anti apoptotic proteins engage and sequester Bax and Bak directly and all BH3 only proteins regulates this interaction by binding to anti apoptotic proteins e.g. Bcl 2 Bcl xL Bcl w Mcl 1 which results in the release Bax and Bak. See Adams J. M. and Cory S. 2007 26 1324 1337 Willis S N. et al. 2007 315 856 859. Although the exact interactions through which the anti and pro apoptotic Bcl 2 family proteins regulate apoptosis remain under debate there is a large body of scientific evidence to show that compounds which inhibit the binding of BH3 only proteins to anti apoptotic Bcl 2 family proteins promote apoptosis in cells.

Dysregulated apoptotic pathways have been implicated in the pathology of many significant diseases such as neurodegenerative conditions up regulated apoptosis such as for example Alzheimer s disease and proliferative diseases down regulated apoptosis such as for example cancer autoimmune diseases and pro thrombotic conditions.

In one aspect the implication that down regulated apoptosis and more particularly the Bcl 2 family of proteins is involved in the onset of cancerous malignancy has revealed a novel way of targeting this still elusive disease. Research has shown for example the anti apoptotic proteins Bcl 2 and Bcl xL are over expressed in many cancer cell types. See Zhang J. Y. 2002 1 101 Kirkin V. et al. 2004 1644 229 249 and Amundson S. A. et al. 2000 60 6101 6110. The effect of this deregulation is the survival of altered cells which would otherwise have undergone apoptosis in normal conditions. The repetition of these defects associated with unregulated proliferation is thought to be the starting point of cancerous evolution. Additionally research has shown that BH3 only proteins can act as tumor suppressors when expressed in diseased animals.

These findings as well as numerous others have made possible the emergence of new strategies in drug discovery for targeting cancer. If a small molecule that could mimic the effect of BH3 only proteins were able to enter the cell and overcome the anti apoptotic protein over expression then it could be possible to reset the apoptotic process. This strategy can have the advantage that it can alleviate the problem of drug resistance which is usually a consequence of apoptotic deregulation abnormal survival .

Researchers also have demonstrated that platelets also contain the necessary apoptotic machinery e.g. Bax Bak Bcl xL Bcl 2 cytochrome c caspase 9 caspase 3 and APAF 1 to execute programmed cell death through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway. Although circulating platelet production is a normal physiological process a number of diseases are caused or exacerbated by excess of or undesired activation of platelets. The above suggests that therapeutic agents capable of inhibiting anti apoptotic proteins in platelets and reducing the number of platelets in mammals maybe useful in treating pro thrombotic conditions and diseases that are characterized by an excess of or undesired activation of platelets.

We have developed a class of small molecule BH3 only protein mimetics i.e. ABT 737 and ABT 263 that bind strongly to a subset of anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins including Bcl 2 Bcl w and Bcl xL but only weakly to Mcl 1 and A1 and exhibits mechanism based cytotoxicity. These compounds were tested in animal studies and demonstrated cytotoxic activity in certain xenograft models as single agents as well as enhanced the effects of a number of chemotherapeutic agents on other xenograft models when used in combination. See Tse C. et al. 2008 68 3421 3428 and van Delft M. F. et al. 2006 10 389 399. These in vivo studies suggest the potential utility of inhibitors of anti apoptotic Bcl 2 family proteins for the treatment of diseases that involve a dysregulated apoptotic pathway.

The natural expression levels of anti apoptotic Bcl 2 family proteins members vary in different cell types. For example in young platelets Bcl xL protein is highly expressed and plays an important role in regulating cell death life span of platelets. Also in certain cancer cell types the cancer cell s survival is attributed to the dysregulation of the apoptotic pathway caused by the over expression of one or more anti apoptotic Bcl 2 protein family members. In view of the important role for Bcl 2 family of proteins in regulating apoptosis in both cancerous and normal i.e. non cancerous cells and the recognized inter cell type variability of Bcl 2 family protein expression it is advantageous to have a small molecule inhibitor that selectively targets and preferably binds to one type or a subset of anti apoptotic Bcl 2 protein s for example to an anti apoptotic Bcl 2 family member that overexpressed in a certain cancer type. Such a selective compound also may confer certain advantages in the clinical setting by providing for example the flexibility to select a dosing regimen a reduced on target toxic effect in normal cells among others e.g. lymphopenia has been observed in Bcl 2 deficient mice . See Nakayama K. et al. 1994 91 3700 3704.

In view of the above there is a need in the art for small molecules therapeutics that can selectively inhibit the activity of one type or a subset of anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins for example of a Bcl xL anti apoptotic protein. The present invention fulfills at least this need.

One embodiment pertains to compounds and therapeutically acceptable salts metabolites prodrugs salts of metabolites and salts of prodrugs thereof which are inhibitors of anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins the compounds having Formula I 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of deuterium halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

two Rthat are attached to the same carbon atom together with said carbon atom optionally form a ring selected from the group consisting of heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkenyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of NRR OR CN NO halogen C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NRS O R NRS O R S O R S O Rand R 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one two three or four substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R CO O H C O H OH CN N NO F Cl Br and I 

Rand R at each occurrence are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl and CH phenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

Rand R or Rand R at each occurrence together with the atom to which each is attached are optionally combined to form a heterocyclyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

wherein Zis unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R C O OR OC O R NHR N R C N C O R C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR NHC O R NRC O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NRC O NHR NRC O N R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R SONH SONHR SON R NHS O R NHSOR NRSOR NHSONHR N CH SON CH R O NH NO N OH F Cl Br I CN CF OCF CFCF OCFCF C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH or C O NHsubstituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R NC R R R OR SR S O R SOR NHR N R C O R C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R NRC O R NHSOR NHC O OR SONH SONHR SON R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NH NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NHR OH O C O OH N CN NH CF CFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris aziridin 1 yl azetidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl or piperidin 1 yl each having one CHmoiety unreplaced or replaced with O C O CNOH CNOCH S S O SOor NH 

Ris C C spiroalkyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with OH O N CN CF CFCF F Cl Br I NH NH CH or N CH 

Ris alkyl. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are optionally substituted with one two three or four R. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis

Still another embodiment pertains to a compound having Formula I selected from the group consisting of

Still another embodiment pertains to a compound having Formula I selected from the group consisting of

Another embodiment pertains to a composition for treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer said composition comprising an excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I .

Another embodiment pertains to a method of treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer in a patient said method comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I .

Another embodiment pertains to a method of treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer in a patient said method comprising administering to the patient therapeutically effective amount of the compound of Formula I and a therapeutically effective amount of one additional therapeutic agent or more than one additional therapeutic agent.

Unless otherwise defined herein scientific and technical terms used in connection with the present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. The meaning and scope of the terms should be clear however in the event of any latent ambiguity definitions provided herein take precedent over any dictionary or extrinsic definition. In this application the use of or means and or unless stated otherwise. Furthermore the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included is not limiting. With reference to the use of the words comprise or comprises or comprising in this patent application including the claims Applicants note that unless the context requires otherwise those words are used on the basis and clear understanding that they are to be interpreted inclusively rather than exclusively and that Applicants intend each of those words to be so interpreted in construing this patent application including the claims below. For a variable that occurs more than one time in any substituent or in the compound of the invention or any other formulae herein its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Combinations of substituents are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. Stable compounds are compounds which can be isolated in a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture.

It is meant to be understood that proper valences are maintained for all combinations herein that monovalent moieties having more than one atom are attached through their left ends and that divalent moieties are drawn from left to right.

As used in the specification and the appended claims unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated 

The term alkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent typically containing from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl iso amyl and hexyl and the like.

The term alkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more double bonds and typically from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethenyl vinyl 2 propenyl 3 propenyl 1 4 pentadienyl 1 4 butadienyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 butenyl and the like.

The term alkynyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more triple bonds and typically from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethynyl 2 propynyl 3 propynyl 2 butynyl and 3 butynyl and the like.

The term carbocyclyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic i.e. cycloalkyl partially saturated cyclic i.e. cycloalkenyl or completely unsaturated i.e. aryl hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms ring atoms are the atoms bound together to form the ring or rings of a cyclic substituent . A carbocyclyl may be a single ring monocyclic or polycyclic ring structure.

A carbocyclyl may be a single ring structure which typically contains from 3 to 8 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of such single ring carbocyclyls include cyclopropyl cyclopropanyl cyclobutyl cyclobutanyl cyclopentyl cyclopentanyl cyclopentenyl cyclopentadienyl cyclohexyl cyclohexanyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl cyclooxtanyl and phenyl. A carbocyclyl may alternatively be polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic carbocyclyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls. In a spirocyclic carbocyclyl one atom is common to two different rings. Examples of spirocyclic carbocyclyls include spiropentanyl spiro 3.5 nonanyl and spiro 2.5 octanyl. In a bridged carbocyclyl the rings share at least two common non adjacent atoms. Examples of bridged carbocyclyls include bicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 enyl and adamantanyl tricyclo 3.3.1.1 decanyl . In a fused ring carbocyclyl system two or more rings may be fused together such that two rings share one common bond. Examples of two or three fused ring carbocyclyls include naphthalenyl tetrahydronaphthalenyl tetralinyl indenyl indanyl dihydroindenyl anthracenyl phenanthrenyl and decalinyl.

The term cycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms. A cycloalkyl may be a single carbon ring which typically contains from 3 to 8 carbon ring atoms and more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptanyl and cyclooctanyl. A cycloalkyl may alternatively be polycyclic or contain more than one ring. Examples of polycyclic cycloalkyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls. Examples of bridged cycloalkyls include adamantanyl tricyclo 3.3.1.1 decanyl and bicyclo 3.1.1 heptanyl.

The term C Ccycloalkyl means a cycloalkyl ring system containing from x to y carbon atoms. For example C Ccycloalkyl means a cycloalkyl ring system containing from 3 to 7 carbon atoms.

The term cycloalkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a partially saturated cyclic hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms. A cycloalkenyl may be a single carbon ring which typically contains from 3 to 8 carbon ring atoms and more typically from 4 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring cycloalkenyls include cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl. A cycloalkenyl may alternatively be polycyclic or contain more than one ring. Examples of polycyclic cycloalkenyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls. Examples of bridged cycloalkenyls include bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 enyl.

The term C Ccycloalkenyl means a cycloalkenyl ring system containing from x to y carbon atoms. For example C Ccycloalkenyl means a cycloalkenyl ring system containing from 4 to 7 carbon atoms.

The term aryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic carbocyclyl containing from 6 to 14 carbon ring atoms. An aryl may be monocyclic or polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . In the case of polycyclic aromatic rings only one ring the polycyclic system is required to be unsaturated while the remaining ring s may be saturated partially saturated or unsaturated. Examples of aryls include phenyl naphthalenyl indenyl indanyl and tetrahydronapthyl.

In some instances the number of carbon atoms in a substituent e.g. alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and aryl is indicated by the prefix C C wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms. Thus for example C C alkyl refers to an alkyl containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Illustrating further C C cycloalkyl means a saturated hydrocarbyl ring containing from 3 to 8 carbon ring atoms.

The term Cbranched chain alkyl means a saturated hydrocarbyl substituent containing from x to y carbons wherein attachment occurs through a dialkyl trivalent or trialkyl tetravalent carbon radical. Examples of such substituents include isopentanyl pentan 3 yl neopentanyl 2 2 dimethylpropan 2 yl heptan 4 yl and 2 6 dimethylheptan 4 yl.

The term Cbranched chain alkyl means a saturated hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 11 carbons wherein attachment occurs through a dialkyl trivalent or trialkyl tetravalent carbon radical.

The term hydrogen alone or in combination with another term s means a hydrogen radical and may be depicted as H.

The term halogen or halo alone or in combination with another term s means a fluorine radical which may be depicted as F chlorine radical which may be depicted as Cl bromine radical which may be depicted as Br or iodine radical which may be depicted as I .

If a substituent is described as being substituted a non hydrogen radical is in the place of hydrogen radical on a carbon or nitrogen of the substituent. Thus for example a substituted alkyl substituent is an alkyl substituent in which at least one non hydrogen radical is in the place of a hydrogen radical on the alkyl substituent. To illustrate monofluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with a fluoro radical and difluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with two fluoro radicals. It should be recognized that if there are more than one substitution on a substituent each non hydrogen radical may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted the substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted. If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with up to a particular number of non hydrogen radicals that substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted by up to that particular number of non hydrogen radicals or by up to the maximum number of substitutable positions on the substituent whichever is less. Thus for example if a substituent is described as a heteroaryl optionally substituted with up to 3 non hydrogen radicals then any heteroaryl with less than 3 substitutable positions would be optionally substituted by up to only as many non hydrogen radicals as the heteroaryl has substitutable positions. To illustrate tetrazolyl which has only one substitutable position would be optionally substituted with up to one non hydrogen radical. To illustrate further if an amino nitrogen is described as being optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals then a primary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals whereas a secondary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to only 1 non hydrogen radical.

The prefix halo indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more independently selected halogen radicals. For example haloalkyl means an alkyl substituent in which at least one hydrogen radical is replaced with a halogen radical. Examples of haloalkyls include chloromethyl 1 bromoethyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl and 1 1 1 trifluoroethyl. It should be recognized that if a substituent is substituted by more than one halogen radical those halogen radicals may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

The prefix perhalo indicates that every hydrogen radical on the substituent to which the prefix is attached is replaced with independently selected halogen radicals i.e. each hydrogen radical on the substituent is replaced with a halogen radical. If all the halogen radicals are identical the prefix typically will identify the halogen radical. Thus for example the term perfluoro means that every hydrogen radical on the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with a fluorine radical. To illustrate the term perfluoroalkyl means an alkyl substituent wherein a fluorine radical is in the place of each hydrogen radical.

The term oxy alone or in combination with another term s means an ether substituent and may be depicted as O .

The term alkyloxy alone or in combination with another term s means an alkylether substituent i.e. O alkyl. Examples of such a substituent include methoxy O CH ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy iso butoxy sec butoxy and tert butoxy.

Similarly the term heterocyclylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O heterocyclyl.

The term carbocyclylalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl carbocyclyl.

Similarly the term heterocyclylalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl heterocyclyl.

The term carbocyclylalkyloxycarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O O alkyl carbocyclyl.

The term thio or thia alone or in combination with another term s means replacement by a sulfur radical i.e. a thiaether substituent means an ether substituent wherein a divalent sulfur atom is in the place of the ether oxygen atom. Such a substituent may be depicted as S . For example alkyl thio alkyl means alkyl 5 alkyl alkyl sulfanyl alkyl .

The term thiol or sulfhydryl alone or in combination with another term s means a sulfhydryl substituent and may be depicted as SH.

The term thiocarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means a carbonyl wherein the oxygen atom has been replaced with a sulfur. Such a substituent may be depicted as C S .

The term heterocyclyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated i.e. heterocycloalkyl partially saturated i.e. heterocycloalkenyl or completely unsaturated i.e. heteroaryl ring structure containing a total of 3 to 14 ring atoms. At least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. A heterocyclyl may be a single ring monocyclic or polycyclic ring structure.

A heterocyclyl may be a single ring which typically contains from 3 to 7 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring heterocyclyls include furanyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl thiophenyl thiofuranyl dihydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl furazanyl or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl oxatriazolyl including 1 2 3 4 oxatriazolyl or 1 2 3 5 oxatriazolyl dioxazolyl including 1 2 3 dioxazolyl 1 2 4 dioxazolyl 1 3 2 dioxazolyl or 1 3 4 dioxazolyl 1 4 dioxanyl dioxothiomorpholinyl oxathiazolyl oxathiolyl oxathiolanyl pyranyl dihydropyranyl thiopyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl pyridinyl azinyl piperidinyl diazinyl including pyridazinyl 1 2 diazinyl pyrimidinyl 1 3 diazinyl or pyrazinyl 1 4 diazinyl piperazinyl triazinyl including 1 3 5 triazinyl 1 2 4 triazinyl and 1 2 3 triazinyl oxazinyl including 1 2 oxazinyl 1 3 oxazinyl or 1 4 oxazinyl oxathiazinyl including 1 2 3 oxathiazinyl 1 2 4 oxathiazinyl 1 2 5 oxathiazinyl or 1 2 6 oxathiazinyl oxadiazinyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazinyl 1 2 4 oxadiazinyl 1 4 2 oxadiazinyl or 1 3 5 oxadiazinyl morpholinyl azepinyl oxepinyl thiepinyl diazepinyl pyridonyl including pyrid 2 1H onyl and pyrid 4 1H onyl furan 2 5H onyl pyrimidonyl including pyramid 2 1H onyl and pyramid 4 3H onyl oxazol 2 3H onyl 1H imidazol 2 3H onyl pyridazin 3 2H onyl and pyrazin 2 1H onyl.

A heterocyclyl may alternatively be polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic heterocyclyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic heterocyclyls. In a spirocyclic heterocyclyl one atom is common to two different rings. In a bridged heterocyclyl the rings share at least two common non adjacent atoms. Examples of bridged heterocyclyls include 2 oxatricyclo 3.3.1.1 decane. In a fused ring heterocyclyl two or more rings may be fused together such that two rings share one common bond. Examples of fused ring heterocyclyls containing two or three rings include imidazopyrazinyl including imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl imidazopyridinyl including imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl imidazopyridazinyl including imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl thiazolopyridinyl including thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl and thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl indolizinyl pyranopyrrolyl 4H quinolizinyl purinyl naphthyridinyl pyridopyridinyl including pyrido 3 4 b pyridinyl pyrido 3 2 b pyridinyl or pyrido 4 3 b pyridinyl and pteridinyl. Other examples of fused ring heterocyclyls include benzo fused heterocyclyls such as dihydrochromenyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl indolyl isoindolyl isobenzazolyl pseudoisoindolyl indoleninyl pseudoindolyl isoindazolyl benzpyrazolyl benzazinyl including quinolinyl 1 benzazinyl or isoquinolinyl 2 benzazinyl phthalazinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl benzodiazinyl including cinnolinyl 1 2 benzodiazinyl or quinazolinyl 1 3 benzodiazinyl benzopyranyl including chromanyl or isochromanyl benzoxazinyl including 1 3 2 benzoxazinyl 1 4 2 benzoxazinyl 2 3 1 benzoxazinyl or 3 1 4 benzoxazinyl benzo d thiazolyl and benzisoxazinyl including 1 2 benzisoxazinyl or 1 4 benzisoxazinyl .

The term heterocycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated heterocyclyl.

The term C C heterocycloalkyl means a heterocycloalkyl ring system containing from x to y ring atoms. For example C Cheterocycloalkyl means a heterocycloalkyl ring system containing 3 to 7 ring atoms.

The term heterocycloalkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a partially saturated heterocyclyl.

The term C Cheterocycloalkenyl means a heterocycloalkenyl ring system containing from x to y ring atoms. For example C Cheterocycloalkenyl means a heterocycloalkenyl ring system containing from 3 to 7 ring atoms.

The term heteroaryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic heterocyclyl containing from 5 to 14 ring atoms. A heteroaryl may be a single ring or 2 or 3 fused rings. Examples of heteroaryls include 6 membered ring substituents such as pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl and 1 3 5 1 2 4 or 1 2 3 triazinyl 5 membered ring substituents such as triazolyl pyrrolyl imidazyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl and isothiazolyl 6 5 membered fused ring substituents such as imidazopyrazinyl including imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl imidazopyridinyl including imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl imidazopyridazinyl including imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl thiazolopyridinyl including thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl and thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl benzo d thiazolyl benzothiofuranyl benzisoxazolyl benzoxazolyl purinyl and anthranilyl and 6 6 membered fused rings such as benzopyranyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl cinnolinyl quinazolinyl and benzoxazinyl.

The term C Cheteroaryl means a heteroaryl ring system containing from x to y ring atoms. For example C Cheteroaryl means a heteroaryl ring system containing from 5 to 6 ring atoms.

A prefix attached to a multi component substituent only applies to the first component. To illustrate the term alkylcycloalkyl contains two components alkyl and cycloalkyl. Thus the C C prefix on C C alkylcycloalkyl means that the alkyl component of the alkylcycloalkyl contains from 1 to 6 carbon atoms the C C prefix does not describe the cycloalkyl component. To illustrate further the prefix halo on haloalkyloxyalkyl indicates that only the alkyloxy component of the alkyloxyalkyl substituent is substituted with one or more halogen radicals. If halogen substitution may alternatively or additionally occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as halogen substituted alkyloxyalkyl rather than haloalkyloxyalkyl. And finally if the halogen substitution may only occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as alkyloxyhaloalkyl. 

The terms treat treating and treatment refer to a method of alleviating or abrogating a disease and or its attendant symptoms.

The terms prevent preventing and prevention refer to a method of preventing the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms or barring a subject from acquiring a disease. As used herein prevent preventing and prevention also include delaying the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms and reducing a subject s risk of acquiring a disease.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of the compound being administered sufficient to prevent development of or alleviate to some extent one or more of the symptoms of the condition or disorder being treated.

The term modulate refers to the ability of a compound to increase or decrease the function or activity of a kinase. Modulation as used herein in its various forms is intended to encompass antagonism agonism partial antagonism and or partial agonism of the activity associated with kinase. Kinase inhibitors are compounds that e.g. bind to partially or totally block stimulation decrease prevent delay activation inactivate desensitize or down regulate signal transduction. Kinase activators are compounds that e.g. bind to stimulate increase open activate facilitate enhance activation sensitize or up regulate signal transduction.

The term composition as used herein is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts. By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

The subject is defined herein to include animals such as mammals including but not limited to primates e.g. humans cows sheep goats horses dogs cats rabbits rats mice and the like. In preferred embodiments the subject is a human.

The term NH protecting group as used herein means trichloroethoxycarbonyl tribromoethoxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl para nitrobenzylcarbonyl ortho bromobenzyloxycarbonyl chloroacetyl dichloroacetyl trichloroacetyl trifluoroacetyl phenylacetyl formyl acetyl benzoyl tert amyloxycarbonyl tert butoxycarbonyl para methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyl oxycarbonyl 4 phenylazo benzyloxycarbonyl 2 furfuryl oxycarbonyl diphenylmethoxycarbonyl 1 1 dimethylpropoxy carbonyl isopropoxycarbonyl phthaloyl succinyl alanyl leucyl 1 adamantyloxycarbonyl 8 quinolyloxycarbonyl benzyl diphenylmethyl triphenylmethyl 2 nitrophenylthio methanesulfonyl para toluenesulfonyl N N dimethylaminomethylene benzylidene 2 hydroxybenzylidene 2 hydroxy 5 chlorobenzylidene 2 hydroxy 1 naphthyl methylene 3 hydroxy 4 pyridylmethylene cyclohexylidene 2 ethoxycarbonylcyclohexylidene 2 ethoxycarbonylcyclopentylidene 2 acetylcyclohexylidene 3 3 dimethyl 5 oxycyclo hexylidene diphenylphosphoryl dibenzylphosphoryl 5 methyl 2 oxo 2H 1 3 dioxol 4 yl methyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl and triphenylsilyl.

The term C O OH protecting group as used herein means methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl 1 1 dimethylpropyl n butyl tert butyl phenyl naphthyl benzyl diphenylmethyl triphenylmethyl para nitrobenzyl para methoxybenzyl bis para methoxyphenyl methyl acetylmethyl benzoylmethyl para nitrobenzoylmethyl para bromobenzoylmethyl para methanesulfonylbenzoylmethyl 2 tetrahydropyranyl 2 tetrahydrofuranyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl acetoxymethyl propionyloxymethyl pivaloyloxymethyl phthalimidomethyl succinimidomethyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl methoxymethyl methoxyethoxymethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl benzyloxymethyl methylthiomethyl 2 methylthioethyl phenylthiomethyl 1 1 dimethyl 2 propenyl 3 methyl 3 butenyl allyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl triisopropylsilyl diethylisopropylsilyl tert butyldimethylsilyl tert butyldiphenylsilyl diphenylmethylsilyl and tert butylmethoxyphenylsilyl.

The term OH or SH protecting group as used herein means benzyloxycarbonyl 4 nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 4 bromobenzyloxycarbonyl 4 methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl methoxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl tert butoxycarbonyl 1 1 dimethylpropoxycarbonyl isopropoxycarbonyl isobutyloxycarbonyl diphenylmethoxycarbonyl 2 2 2 trichloroethoxycarbonyl 2 2 2 tribromoethoxycarbonyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxycarbonyl 2 phenylsulfonyl ethoxycarbonyl 2 triphenylphosphonio ethoxycarbonyl 2 furfuryloxycarbonyl 1 adamantyloxycarbonyl vinyloxycarbonyl allyloxycarbonyl S benzylthiocarbonyl 4 ethoxy 1 naphthyloxycarbonyl 8 quinolyloxycarbonyl acetyl formyl chloroacetyl dichloroacetyl trichloroacetyl trifluoroacetyl methoxyacetyl phenoxyacetyl pivaloyl benzoyl methyl tert butyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl 2 trimethylsilylethyl 1 1 dimethyl 2 propenyl 3 methyl 3 butenyl allyl benzyl phenylmethyl para methoxybenzyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyl diphenylmethyl triphenylmethyl tetrahydrofuryl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl methoxymethyl methylthiomethyl benzyloxymethyl 2 methoxyethoxymethyl 2 2 2 trichloro ethoxymethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 1 ethoxyethyl methanesulfonyl para toluenesulfonyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl triisopropylsilyl diethylisopropylsilyl tert butyldimethylsilyl tert butyldiphenylsilyl diphenylmethylsilyl and tert butylmethoxyphenylsilyl.

Geometric isomers may exist in the present compounds. Compounds of this invention may contain carbon carbon double bonds or carbon nitrogen double bonds in the E or Z configuration wherein the term E represents higher order substituents on opposite sides of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond and the term Z represents higher order substituents on the same side of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond as determined by the Cahn Ingold Prelog Priority Rules. The compounds of this invention may also exist as a mixture of E and Z isomers. Substituents around a cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl are sometimes designated as being of cis or trans configuration.

Compounds of this invention may contain asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms in the R or S configuration in which the terms R and S are as defined by the IUPAC 1974 Recommendations for Section E Fundamental Stereochemistry Pure Appl. Chem. 1976 45 13 10. Compounds having asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms with equal amounts of R and S configurations are racemic at those carbon atoms. Atoms with an excess of one configuration over the other are assigned the configuration present in the higher amount preferably an excess of about 85 90 more preferably an excess of about 95 99 and still more preferably an excess greater than about 99 . Accordingly this invention includes racemic mixtures relative and absolute stereoisomers and mixtures of relative and absolute stereoisomers.

Compounds of the invention can exist in isotope labeled or enriched form containing one or more atoms having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number most abundantly found in nature. Isotopes can be radioactive or non radioactive isotopes. Isotopes of atoms such as hydrogen carbon phosphorous sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine include but are not limited to H H C C N O P S F Cl and I. Compounds that contain other isotopes of these and or other atoms are within the scope of this invention.

In another embodiment the isotope labeled compounds contain deuterium H tritium H or C isotopes. Isotope labeled compounds of this invention can be prepared by the general methods well known to persons having ordinary skill in the art. Such isotope labeled compounds can be conveniently prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the Examples disclosed herein and Schemes by substituting a readily available isotope labeled reagent for a non labeled reagent. In some instances compounds may be treated with isotope labeled reagents to exchange a normal atom with its isotope for example hydrogen for deuterium can be exchanged by the action of a deuteric acid such as DSO DO. In addition to the above relevant procedures and intermediates are disclosed for instance in Lizondo J et al. 21 11 1116 1996 Brickner S J et al. 39 3 673 1996 Mallesham B et al. 5 7 963 2003 PCT publications WO1997010223 WO2005099353 WO1995007271 WO2006008754 U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 538 189 7 534 814 7 531 685 7 528 131 7 521 421 7 514 068 7511013 and US Patent Application Publication Nos. 20090137457 20090131485 20090131363 20090118238 20090111840 20090105338 20090105307 20090105147 20090093422 20090088416 and 20090082471 the methods are hereby incorporated by reference.

The isotope labeled compounds of the invention may be used as standards to determine the effectiveness of Bcl xL inhibitors in binding assays. Isotope containing compounds have been used in pharmaceutical research to investigate the in vivo metabolic fate of the compounds by evaluation of the mechanism of action and metabolic pathway of the nonisotope labeled parent compound Blake et al. 64 3 367 391 1975 . Such metabolic studies are important in the design of safe effective therapeutic drugs either because the in vivo active compound administered to the patient or because the metabolites produced from the parent compound prove to be toxic or carcinogenic Foster et al. 14 pp. 2 36 Academic press London 1985 Kato et al. 36 10 927 932 1995 Kushner et al. 77 79 88 1999 .

In addition non radio active isotope containing drugs such as deuterated drugs called heavy drugs can be used for the treatment of diseases and conditions related to Bcl xL activity. Increasing the amount of an isotope present in a compound above its natural abundance is called enrichment. Examples of the amount of enrichment include from about 0.5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 16 21 25 29 33 37 42 46 50 54 58 63 67 71 75 79 84 88 92 96 to about 100 mol . Replacement of up to about 15 of normal atom with a heavy isotope has been effected and maintained for a period of days to weeks in mammals including rodents and dogs with minimal observed adverse effects Czajka D M and Finkel A J Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 1960 84 770 Thomson J F Ann. New York Acad. Sci. 1960 84 736 Czakja D M et al. Am. J. Physiol. 1961 201 357 . Acute replacement of as high as 15 23 in human fluids with deuterium was found not to cause toxicity Blagojevic N et al. in Dosimetry Treatment Planning for Neutron Capture Therapy Zamenhof R Solares G and Harling O Eds. 1994. Advanced Medical Publishing Madison Wis. pp. 125 134 Diabetes Metab. 23 251 1997 .

Stable isotope labeling of a drug can alter its physico chemical properties such as pKa and lipid solubility. These effects and alterations can affect the pharmacodynamic response of the drug molecule if the isotopic substitution affects a region involved in a ligand receptor interaction. While some of the physical properties of a stable isotope labeled molecule are different from those of the unlabeled one the chemical and biological properties are the same with one important exception because of the increased mass of the heavy isotope any bond involving the heavy isotope and another atom will be stronger than the same bond between the light isotope and that atom. Accordingly the incorporation of an isotope at a site of metabolism or enzymatic transformation will slow said reactions potentially altering the pharmacokinetic profile or efficacy relative to the non isotopic compound.

Suitable groups for X X R R m and n in compounds of Formula I are independently selected. The described embodiments of the present invention may be combined. Such combination is contemplated and within the scope of the present invention. For example it is contemplated that embodiments for any of X X R R m and n can be combined with embodiments defined for any other of X X R R m and n.

One embodiment pertains to compounds and therapeutically acceptable salts metabolites prodrugs salts of metabolites and salts of prodrugs thereof which are inhibitors of anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins the compounds having Formula I 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of deuterium halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

two Rthat are attached to the same carbon atom together with said carbon atom optionally form a ring selected from the group consisting of heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkenyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of NRR OR CN NO halogen C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NRS O R NRS O R S O R S O Rand R 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one two three or four substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R CO O H C O H OH CN N NO F Cl Br and I 

Rand R at each occurrence are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl and CH phenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

Rand R or Rand R at each occurrence together with the atom to which each is attached are optionally combined to form a heterocyclyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

wherein Zis unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R C O OR OC O R NHR N R C N C O R C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR NHC O R NRC O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NRC O NHR NRC O N R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R SONH SONHR SON R NHS O R NHSOR NRSOR NHSONHR N CH SON CH R O NH NO N OH F Cl Br I CN CF OCF CFCF OCFCF C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH or C O NHsubstituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R NC R R R OR SR S O R SOR NHR N R C O R C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R NRC O R NHSOR NHC O OR SONH SONHR SON R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NH NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NHR OH O C O OH N CN NH CF CFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris aziridin 1 yl azetidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl or piperidin 1 yl each having one CHmoiety unreplaced or replaced with O C O CNOH CNOCH S S O SOor NH 

Ris C C spiroalkyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with OH O N CN CF CFCF F Cl Br I NH NH CH or N CH 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

wherein the cyclic moieties represented by R R R R R R R R R R and Rare independently unsubstituted further unsubstituted substituted or further substituted with one or more independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkenyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl 

wherein the cyclic moieties represented by R R R R R R and Rare unsubstituted or substituted with one or more independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkenyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R N RS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl alkenyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl and

the moieties represented by R R and Rare unsubstituted or substituted with one or more independently selected NH C O NH C O NHOH SONH CF CFCF C O H C O OH C N NH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents.

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of deuterium halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

two Rthat are attached to the same carbon atom together with said carbon atom optionally form a ring selected from the group consisting of heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkenyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of NRR OR CN NO halogen C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NRS O R NRS O R S O R S O Rand R 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one two three or four substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R CO O H C O H OH CN N NO F Cl Br and I 

Rand R at each occurrence are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl and CH phenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

Rand R or Rand R at each occurrence together with the atom to which each is attached are optionally combined to form a heterocyclyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

wherein Zis unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R C O OR OC O R NHR N R C N C O R C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR NHC O R NRC O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NRC O NHR NRC O N R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R SONH SONHR SON R NHS O R NHSOR NRSOR NHSONHR N CH SON CH R O NH NO N OH F Cl Br I CN CF OCF CFCF OCFCF C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH or C O NHsubstituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R NC R R R OR SR S O R SOR NHR N R C O R C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R NRC O R NHSOR NHC O OR SONH SONHR SON R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NH NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NHR OH O C O OH N CN NH CF CFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris aziridin 1 yl azetidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl or piperidin 1 yl each having one CHmoiety unreplaced or replaced with O C O CNOH CNOCH S S O SOor NH 

Ris C C spiroalkyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with OH O N CN CF CFCF F Cl Br I NH NH CH or N CH 

In one embodiment of Formula I m is 0 1 2 or 3 n is 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 and p is 0 1 or 2. In another embodiment of Formula I n is 0 or 1. In another embodiment of Formula I n is 0 or 1 and each Ris independently deuterium or Calkyl. In another embodiment of Formula I m n and p are 0.

In one embodiment of Formula I Xis heteroaryl which is optionally substituted with one two three or four R. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis heteroaryl which is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with two R. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R and Ris ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R and Ris halogen. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently F. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R and Ris F.

In one embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are optionally substituted with one two three or four R. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are unsubstituted. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with two R. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R and Ris ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with two R and each Ris independently ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R and Ris Cl F or methoxy. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with two R and each Ris independently F. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R and Ris independently F.

In one embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is optionally substituted with one two three or four R. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with two R. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R and Ris ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R and Ris Cl F or methoxy. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently F. In another embodiment of Formula I Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R and Ris independently F.

In one embodiment of Formula I Yis hydrogen CH R CH OR CH NHR CH N R or CH SR. In another embodiment of Formula I Yis hydrogen or CH R. In another embodiment of Formula I Yis hydrogen. In another embodiment of Formula I Yis CH R Ris optionally substituted phenyl or heteroaryl and t is 1 2 or 3. In another embodiment of Formula I Yis CH R Ris phenyl and t is 1 2 or 3.

In one embodiment of Formula I Zis aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl. In another embodiment of Formula I Zis unsubstituted or substituted phenyl or pyridinyl. In another embodiment of Formula I Zis unsubstituted or substituted phenyl.

In one embodiment of Formula I Zis substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R C O OR OC O R NHR N R C N C O R C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR NHC O R NRC O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NRC O NHR NRC O N R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R SONH SONHR SON R NHS O R NHSOR NRSOR NHSONHR N CH SON CH R O NH NO N OH F Cl Br I CN CF OCF CFCF OCFCF C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH or C O NHsubstituents. In another embodiment of Formula I Zis substituted with two independently selected SOR NHR CF NO or F. In another embodiment of Formula I Zis substituted with NHRand SOR NO CF or F. In another embodiment of Formula I Zis substituted with NHRand SOCF SOCFCl CF NO or F. In one embodiment of Formula I Zis substituted with NHRand SOCF SOCFCl CF NO or F wherein Ris R Ris alkyl which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected OH R OR SR or N R substituents Ris R Ror R Ris aryl Ris heterocycloalkyl and Ris alkyl.

wherein Zis substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected SOR NHR NO F or CF substituents 

Ris alkyl which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR N R OH CF F or Cl substituents 

Still another embodiment pertains to a compound having Formula I selected from the group consisting of

Still another embodiment pertains to a compound having Formula I selected from the group consisting of

One embodiment pertains to compounds and therapeutically acceptable salts metabolites prodrugs salts of metabolites and salts of prodrugs thereof which are inhibitors of anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins the compounds having Formula II 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of deuterium halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

two Rthat are attached to the same carbon atom together with said carbon atom optionally form a ring selected from the group consisting of heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkenyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of NRR OR CN NO halogen C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NRS O R NRS O R S O R S O Rand R 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one two three or four substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R CO O H C O H OH CN N NO F Cl Br and I 

Rand R at each occurrence are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl and CH phenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

Rand R or Rand R at each occurrence together with the atom to which each is attached are optionally combined to form a heterocyclyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

wherein Zis unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R C O OR OC O R NHR N R C N C O R C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR NHC O R NRC O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NRC O NHR NRC O N R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R SONH SONHR SON R NHS O R NHSOR NRSOR NHSONHR N CH SON CH R O NH NO N OH F Cl Br I CN CF OCF CFCF OCFCF C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH or C O NHsubstituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R NC R R R OR SR S O R SOR NHR N R C O R C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R NRC O R NHSOR NHC O OR SONH SONHR SON R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NH NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NHR OH O C O OH N CN NH CF CFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris aziridin 1 yl azetidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl or piperidin 1 yl each having one CHmoiety unreplaced or replaced with O C O CNOH CNOCH S S O SOor NH 

Ris C C spiroalkyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with OH O N CN CF CFCF F Cl Br I NH NH CH or N CH 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

wherein the cyclic moieties represented by R R R R R R R R R R and Rare independently unsubstituted further unsubstituted substituted or further substituted with one or more independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkenyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl 

wherein the cyclic moieties represented by R R R R R R and Rare unsubstituted or substituted with one or more independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NR O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkenyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R N RS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl alkenyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl and

the moieties represented by R R and Rare unsubstituted or substituted with one or more independently selected NH C O NH C O NHOH SONH CF CFCF C O H C O OH C N NH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents.

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of deuterium halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

two Rthat are attached to the same carbon atom together with said carbon atom optionally form a ring selected from the group consisting of heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkenyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of NRR OR CN NO halogen C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NRS O R NRS O R S O R S O Rand R 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one two three or four substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R CO O H C O H OH CN N NO F Cl Br and I 

Rand R at each occurrence are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl and CH phenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

Rand R or Rand R at each occurrence together with the atom to which each is attached are optionally combined to form a heterocyclyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

wherein Zis unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R C O OR OC O R NHR N R C N C O R C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR NHC O R NRC O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NRC O NHR NRC O N R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R SONH SONHR SON R NHS O R NHSOR NRSOR NHSONHR N CH SON CH R O NH NO N OH F Cl Br I CN CF OCF CFCF OCFCF C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH or C O NHsubstituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R NC R R R OR SR S O R SOR NHR N R C O R C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R NRC O R NHSOR NHC O OR SONH SONHR SON R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NH NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NHR OH O C O OH N CN NH CF CFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris aziridin 1 yl azetidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl or piperidin 1 yl each having one CHmoiety unreplaced or replaced with O C O CNOH CNOCH S S O SOor NH 

Ris C C spiroalkyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with OH O N CN CF CFCF F Cl Br I NH NH CH or N CH 

In one embodiment of Formula II m is 0 1 2 or 3 n is 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 and p is 0 1 or 2. In another embodiment of Formula II n is 0 or 1. In another embodiment of Formula II n is 0 or 1 and each Ris independently deuterium or Calkyl. In another embodiment of Formula II m n and p are 0.

In one embodiment of Formula II Xis heteroaryl which is optionally substituted with one two three or four R. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis heteroaryl which is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with two R. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R and Ris ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R and Ris halogen. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently F. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R and Ris F.

In one embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are optionally substituted with one two three or four R. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are unsubstituted. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with two R. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R and Ris ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with two R and each Ris independently ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R and Ris Cl F or methoxy. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with two R and each Ris independently F. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R and Ris independently F.

In one embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is optionally substituted with one two three or four R. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with two R. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R and Ris ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R and Ris Cl F or methoxy. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently F. In another embodiment of Formula II Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R and Ris independently F.

In one embodiment of Formula II Yis hydrogen CH R CH OR CH NHR CH N R or CH SR. In another embodiment of Formula II Yis hydrogen or CH R. In another embodiment of Formula II Yis hydrogen. In another embodiment of Formula II Yis CH R Ris optionally substituted phenyl or heteroaryl and t is 1 2 or 3. In another embodiment of Formula II Yis CH R Ris phenyl and t is 1 2 or 3.

In one embodiment of Formula II Zis aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl. In another embodiment of Formula II Zis unsubstituted or substituted phenyl or pyridinyl. In another embodiment of Formula II Zis unsubstituted or substituted phenyl.

In one embodiment of Formula II Zis substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R C O OR OC O R NHR N R C N C O R C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR NHC O R NRC O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NRC O NHR NRC O N R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R SONH SONHR SON R NHS O R NHSOR NRSOR NHSONHR N CH SON CH R O NH NO N OH F Cl Br I CN CF OCF CFCF OCFCF C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH or C O NHsubstituents. In another embodiment of Formula II Zis substituted with two independently selected SOR NHR CF NO or F. In another embodiment of Formula II Zis substituted with NHRand SOR NO CF or F. In another embodiment of Formula II Zis substituted with NHRand SOCF SOCFCl CF NO or F. In one embodiment of Formula II Zis substituted with NHRand SOCF SOCFCl CF NO or F wherein Ris R Ris alkyl which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected OH R OR SR or N R substituents Ris R Ror R Ris aryl Ris heterocycloalkyl and Ris alkyl.

wherein Zis substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected SOR NHR NO F or CF substituents 

Ris alkyl which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR N R OH CF F or Cl substituents 

Still another embodiment pertains to a compound having Formula II selected from the group consisting of

One embodiment pertains to compounds and therapeutically acceptable salts metabolites prodrugs salts of metabolites and salts of prodrugs thereof which are inhibitors of anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins the compounds having Formula III 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of deuterium halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

two Rthat are attached to the same carbon atom together with said carbon atom optionally form a ring selected from the group consisting of heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkenyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of NRR OR CN NO halogen C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NRS O R NRS O R S O R S O Rand R 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one two three or four substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R CO O H C O H OH CN N NO F Cl Br and I 

Rand R at each occurrence are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl and CH phenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

Rand R or Rand R at each occurrence together with the atom to which each is attached are optionally combined to form a heterocyclyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

wherein Zis unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R C O OR OC O R NHR N R C N C O R C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR NHC O R NRC O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NRC O NHR NRC O N R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R SONH SONHR SON R NHS O R NHSOR NRSOR NHSONHR N CH SON CH R O NH NO N OH F Cl Br I CN CF OCF CFCF OCFCF C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH or C O NHsubstituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R NC R R R OR SR S O R SOR NHR N R C O R C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R NRC O R NHSOR NHC O OR SONH SONHR SON R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NH NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NHR OH O C O OH N CN NH CF CFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris aziridin 1 yl azetidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl or piperidin 1 yl each having one CHmoiety unreplaced or replaced with O C O CNOH CNOCH S S O SOor NH 

Ris C C spiroalkyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with OH O N CN CF CFCF F Cl Br I NH NH CH or N CH 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

wherein the cyclic moieties represented by R R R R R R R R R R and Rare independently unsubstituted further unsubstituted substituted or further substituted with one or more independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkenyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl 

wherein the cyclic moieties represented by R R R R R R and Rare unsubstituted or substituted with one or more independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkenyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R N RS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl alkenyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl and

the moieties represented by R R and Rare unsubstituted or substituted with one or more independently selected NH C O NH C O NHOH SONH CF CFCF C O H C O OH C N NH OH O CN N NO CF CFCF OCF OCFCF F Cl Br or I substituents.

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of deuterium halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

two Rthat are attached to the same carbon atom together with said carbon atom optionally form a ring selected from the group consisting of heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkenyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of NRR OR CN NO halogen C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NRS O R NRS O R S O R S O Rand R 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one two three or four substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R OR SR S O R SOR C O R CO O R OC O R OC O OR NH NHR N R NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R NRC O NHR NRC O N R C O NH C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR C O NRSOR SONH SONHR SON R CO O H C O H OH CN N NO F Cl Br and I 

Rand R at each occurrence are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl and CH phenyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

Rand R or Rand R at each occurrence together with the atom to which each is attached are optionally combined to form a heterocyclyl 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Chaloalkyl 

wherein Zis unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R C O OR OC O R NHR N R C N C O R C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR NHC O R NRC O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NRC O NHR NRC O N R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R SONH SONHR SON R NHS O R NHSOR NRSOR NHSONHR N CH SON CH R O NH NO N OH F Cl Br I CN CF OCF CFCF OCFCF C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH or C O NHsubstituents 

Ris alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R NC R R R OR SR S O R SOR NHR N R C O R C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R NRC O R NHSOR NHC O OR SONH SONHR SON R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NH NHC O CH CH NHC O CH CH NHR OH O C O OH N CN NH CF CFCF F Cl Br or I substituents 

Ris aziridin 1 yl azetidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl or piperidin 1 yl each having one CHmoiety unreplaced or replaced with O C O CNOH CNOCH S S O SOor NH 

Ris C C spiroalkyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted with OH O N CN CF CFCF F Cl Br I NH NH CH or N CH 

In one embodiment of Formula III m is 0 1 2 or 3 and n is 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. In another embodiment of Formula III n is 0 or 1. In another embodiment of Formula III n is 0 or 1 and each Ris independently deuterium or Calkyl. In another embodiment of Formula III m and n.

In one embodiment of Formula III Xis heteroaryl which is optionally substituted with one two three or four R. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis heteroaryl which is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with two R. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R and Ris ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R and Ris halogen. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently F. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis heteroaryl which is substituted with one R and Ris F.

In one embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are optionally substituted with one two three or four R. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are unsubstituted. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with two R. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R and Ris ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with two R and each Ris independently ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R and Ris Cl F or methoxy. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with two R and each Ris independently F. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl thiazolo 5 4 b pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 c pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyridinyl thiazolo 4 5 b pyridinyl imidazo 1 2 a pyrazinyl or imidazo 1 2 b pyridazinyl which are substituted with one R and Ris independently F.

In one embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is optionally substituted with one two three or four R. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is unsubstituted. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with two R. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R and Ris ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently ORor halogen. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R and Ris Cl F or methoxy. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with two R and each Ris independently F. In another embodiment of Formula III Xis benzo d thiazolyl which is substituted with one R and Ris independently F.

In one embodiment of Formula III Yis hydrogen CH R CH OR CH NHR CH N R or CH SR. In another embodiment of Formula III Yis hydrogen or CH R. In another embodiment of Formula III Yis hydrogen. In another embodiment of Formula III Yis CH R Ris optionally substituted phenyl or heteroaryl and t is 1 2 or 3. In another embodiment of Formula III Yis CH R Ris phenyl and t is 1 2 or 3.

In one embodiment of Formula III Zis aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl. In another embodiment of Formula III Zis unsubstituted or substituted phenyl or pyridinyl. In another embodiment of Formula III Zis unsubstituted or substituted phenyl.

In one embodiment of Formula III Zis substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected R OR SR S O R SOR C O R C O OR OC O R NHR N R C N C O R C O NHR C O N R C O NHOH C O NHOR C O NHSOR NHC O R NRC O R NHC O OR NRC O OR NRC O NHR NRC O N R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O N R SONH SONHR SON R NHS O R NHSOR NRSOR NHSONHR N CH SON CH R O NH NO N OH F Cl Br I CN CF OCF CFCF OCFCF C O H C O OH C N NH C N NHR C N N R CNOH CNOCH or C O NHsubstituents. In another embodiment of Formula III Zis substituted with two independently selected SOR NHR CF NO or F. In another embodiment of Formula III Zis substituted with NHRand SOR NO CF or F. In another embodiment of Formula III Zis substituted with NHRand SOCF SOCFCl CF NO or F.

In one embodiment of Formula III Zis substituted with NHRand SOCF SOCFCl CF NO or F wherein Ris R Ris alkyl which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected OH R OR SR or N R substituents Ris R Ror R Ris aryl Ris heterocycloalkyl and Ris alkyl.

wherein Zis substituted with one or two or three or four or five independently selected SOR NHR NO F or CF substituents 

Ris alkyl which is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two or three independently selected R OR SR N R OH CF F or Cl substituents 

Still another embodiment pertains to a compound having Formula III selected from the group consisting of

Another embodiment comprises pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound having Formula I and an excipient.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating cancer in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having Formula I .

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating autoimmune disease in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having Formula I .

Still another embodiment pertains to compositions for treating diseases during which anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins are expressed said compositions comprising an excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of the compound having Formula I .

Still another embodiment pertains to methods of treating disease in a patient during which anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins are expressed said methods comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having Formula I .

Still another embodiment pertains to compositions for treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer said compositions comprising an excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of the compound having Formula I .

Still another embodiment pertains to methods of treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer in a patient said methods comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having Formula I .

Still another embodiment pertains to compositions for treating diseases during which are expressed anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins said compositions comprising an excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of the compound having Formula I and a therapeutically effective amount of one additional therapeutic agent or more than one additional therapeutic agent.

Still another embodiment pertains to methods of treating disease in a patient during which are expressed anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins said methods comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having Formula I and a therapeutically effective amount of one additional therapeutic agent or more than one additional therapeutic agent.

Still another embodiment pertains to compositions for treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer said compositions comprising an excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of the compound having Formula I and a therapeutically effective amount of one additional therapeutic agent or more than one additional therapeutic agent.

Still another embodiment pertains to methods of treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer in a patient said methods comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of the compound having Formula I and a therapeutically effective amount of one additional therapeutic agent or more than one additional therapeutic agent.

Metabolites of compounds having Formula I produced by in vitro or in vivo metabolic processes may also have utility for treating diseases associated with anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins.

Certain precursor compounds which may be metabolized in vitro or in vivo to form compounds having Formula I may also have utility for treating diseases associated with expression of anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins.

Compounds having Formula I may exist as acid addition salts basic addition salts or zwitterions. Salts of the compounds are prepared during isolation or following purification of the compounds. Acid addition salts of the compounds are those derived from the reaction of the compounds with an acid. For example the acetate adipate alginate bicarbonate citrate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate digluconate formate fumarate glycerophosphate glutamate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide lactobionate lactate maleate mesitylenesulfonate methanesulfonate naphthylenesulfonate nicotinate oxalate pamoate pectinate persulfate phosphate picrate propionate succinate tartrate thiocyanate trichloroacetic trifluoroacetic para toluenesulfonate and undecanoate salts of the compounds are contemplated as being embraced by this invention. Basic addition salts of the compounds are those derived from the reaction of the compounds with the hydroxide carbonate or bicarbonate of cations such as lithium sodium potassium calcium and magnesium.

The compounds having Formula I may be administered for example bucally ophthalmically orally osmotically parenterally intramuscularly intraperitoneally intrasternally intravenously subcutaneously rectally topically transdermally or vaginally.

Therapeutically effective amounts of compounds having Formula I depend on the recipient of the treatment the disorder being treated and the severity thereof the composition containing the compound the time of administration the route of administration the duration of treatment the compound potency its rate of clearance and whether or not another drug is co administered. The amount of a compound of this invention having Formula I used to make a composition to be administered daily to a patient in a single dose or in divided doses is from about 0.03 to about 200 mg kg body weight. Single dose compositions contain these amounts or a combination of submultiples thereof.

Compounds having Formula I may be administered with or without an excipient. Excipients include for example encapsulating materials or additives such as absorption accelerators antioxidants binders buffers coating agents coloring agents diluents disintegrating agents emulsifiers extenders fillers flavoring agents humectants lubricants perfumes preservatives propellants releasing agents sterilizing agents sweeteners solubilizers wetting agents and mixtures thereof.

Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having Formula I to be administered orally in solid dosage form include for example agar alginic acid aluminum hydroxide benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate 1 3 butylene glycol carbomers castor oil cellulose cellulose acetate cocoa butter corn starch corn oil cottonseed oil cross povidone diglycerides ethanol ethyl cellulose ethyl laureate ethyl oleate fatty acid esters gelatin germ oil glucose glycerol groundnut oil hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose isopropanol isotonic saline lactose magnesium hydroxide magnesium stearate malt mannitol monoglycerides olive oil peanut oil potassium phosphate salts potato starch povidone propylene glycol Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil sodium carboxymethyl cellulose sodium phosphate salts sodium lauryl sulfate sodium sorbitol soybean oil stearic acids stearyl fumarate sucrose surfactants talc tragacanth tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol triglycerides water and mixtures thereof. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound of this invention having Formula I to be administered ophthalmically or orally in liquid dosage forms include for example 1 3 butylene glycol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil ethanol fatty acid esters of sorbitan germ oil groundnut oil glycerol isopropanol olive oil polyethylene glycols propylene glycol sesame oil water and mixtures thereof. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound of this invention having Formula I to be administered osmotically include for example chlorofluorohydrocarbons ethanol water and mixtures thereof. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound of this invention having Formula I to be administered parenterally include for example 1 3 butanediol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil dextrose germ oil groundnut oil liposomes oleic acid olive oil peanut oil Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil soybean oil U.S.P. or isotonic sodium chloride solution water and mixtures thereof. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound of this invention having Formula I to be administered rectally or vaginally include for example cocoa butter polyethylene glycol wax and mixtures thereof.

Compounds having Formula I are expected to be useful when used with alkylating agents angiogenesis inhibitors antibodies antimetabolites antimitotics antiproliferatives antivirals aurora kinase inhibitors other apoptosis promoters for example Bcl xL Bcl w and Bfl 1 inhibitors activators of death receptor pathway Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors BiTE Bi Specific T cell Engager antibodies antibody drug conjugates biologic response modifiers cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors cell cycle inhibitors cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors DVDs leukemia viral oncogene homolog ErbB2 receptor inhibitors growth factor inhibitors heat shock protein HSP 90 inhibitors histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitors hormonal therapies immunologicals inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins IAPs intercalating antibiotics kinase inhibitors kinesin inhibitors Jak2 inhibitors mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors microRNA s mitogen activated extracellular signal regulated kinase inhibitors multivalent binding proteins non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs poly ADP adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase PARP inhibitors platinum chemotherapeutics polo like kinase Plk inhibitors phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors proteosome inhibitors purine analogs pyrimidine analogs receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors retinoids deltoids plant alkaloids small inhibitory ribonucleic acids siRNAs topoisomerase inhibitors ubiquitin ligase inhibitors and the like and in combination with one or more of these agents.

BiTE antibodies are bi specific antibodies that direct T cells to attack cancer cells by simultaneously binding the two cells. The T cell then attacks the target cancer cell. Examples of BiTE antibodies include adecatumumab Micromet MT201 blinatumomab Micromet MT103 and the like. Without being limited by theory one of the mechanisms by which T cells elicit apoptosis of the target cancer cell is by exocytosis of cytolytic granule components which include perforin and granzyme B.

SiRNAs are molecules having endogenous RNA bases or chemically modified nucleotides. The modifications do not abolish cellular activity but rather impart increased stability and or increased cellular potency. Examples of chemical modifications include phosphorothioate groups 2 deoxynucleotide 2 OCH containing ribonucleotides 2 F ribonucleotides 2 methoxyethyl ribonucleotides combinations thereof and the like. The siRNA can have varying lengths e.g. 10 200 bps and structures e.g. hairpins single double strands bulges nicks gaps mismatches and are processed in cells to provide active gene silencing. A double stranded siRNA dsRNA can have the same number of nucleotides on each strand blunt ends or asymmetric ends overhangs . The overhang of 1 2 nucleotides can be present on the sense and or the antisense strand as well as present on the 5 and or the 3 ends of a given strand. For example siRNAs targeting Mcl 1 have been shown to enhance the activity of ABT 263 i.e. N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 41R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide or ABT 737 i.e. N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in multiple tumor cell lines Tse et. al 2008 68 9 3421 and references therein .

Multivalent binding proteins are binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Multivalent binding proteins are engineered to have the three or more antigen binding sites and are generally not naturally occurring antibodies. The term multispecific binding protein means a binding protein capable of binding two or more related or unrelated targets. Dual variable domain DVD binding proteins are tetravalent or multivalent binding proteins binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Such DVDs may be monospecific i.e. capable of binding one antigen or multispecific i.e. capable of binding two or more antigens . DVD binding proteins comprising two heavy chain DVD polypeptides and two light chain DVD polypeptides are referred to as DVD Ig s. Each half of a DVD Ig comprises a heavy chain DVD polypeptide a light chain DVD polypeptide and two antigen binding sites. Each binding site comprises a heavy chain variable domain and a light chain variable domain with a total of 6 CDRs involved in antigen binding per antigen binding site.

Alkylating agents include altretamine AMD 473 AP 5280 apaziquone bendamustine brostallicin busulfan carboquone carmustine BCNU chlorambucil CLORETAZINE laromustine VNP 40101M cyclophosphamide decarbazine estramustine fotemustine glufosfamide ifosfamide KW 2170 lomustine CCNU mafosfamide melphalan mitobronitol mitolactol nimustine nitrogen mustard N oxide ranimustine temozolomide thiotepa TREANDA bendamustine treosulfan rofosfamide and the like.

Angiogenesis inhibitors include endothelial specific receptor tyrosine kinase Tie 2 inhibitors epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR inhibitors insulin growth factor 2 receptor IGFR 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 9 MMP 9 inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors thrombospondin analogs vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase VEGFR inhibitors and the like.

Antimetabolites include ALIMTA pemetrexed disodium LY231514 MTA 5 azacitidine XELODA capecitabine carmofur LEUSTAT cladribine clofarabine cytarabine cytarabine ocfosfate cytosine arabinoside decitabine deferoxamine doxifluridine eflornithine EICAR 5 ethynyl 1 D ribofuranosylimidazole 4 carboxamide enocitabine ethnylcytidine fludarabine 5 fluorouracil alone or in combination with leucovorin GEMZAR gemcitabine hydroxyurea ALKERAN melphalan mercaptopurine 6 mercaptopurine riboside methotrexate mycophenolic acid nelarabine nolatrexed ocfosfate pelitrexol pentostatin raltitrexed Ribavirin triapine trimetrexate S 1 tiazofurin tegafur TS 1 vidarabine UFT and the like.

Aurora kinase inhibitors include ABT 348 AZD 1152 MLN 8054 VX 680 Aurora A specific kinase inhibitors Aurora B specific kinase inhibitors and pan Aurora kinase inhibitors and the like.

Bcl 2 protein inhibitors include AT 101 gossypol GENASENSE G3139 or oblimersen Bcl 2 targeting antisense oligonucleotide IPI 194 IPI 565 N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide ABT 737 N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide ABT 263 GX 070 obatoclax and the like.

CDK inhibitors include AZD 5438 BMI 1040 BMS 032 BMS 387 CVT 2584 flavopyridol GPC 286199 MCS 5A PD0332991 PHA 690509 seliciclib CYC 202 R roscovitine ZK 304709 and the like.

COX 2 inhibitors include ABT 963 ARCOXIA etoricoxib BEXTRA valdecoxib BMS347070 CELEBREX celecoxib COX 189 lumiracoxib CT 3 DERAMAXX deracoxib JTE 522 4 methyl 2 3 4 dimethylphenyl 1 4 sulfamoylphenyl 1H pyrrole MK 663 etoricoxib NS 308 parecoxib RS 57067 SC 58125 SD 8381 SVT 2016 S 2474 T 614 VIOXX rofecoxib and the like.

EGFR inhibitors include ABX EGF anti EGFR immunoliposomes EGF vaccine EMD 7200 ERBITUX cetuximab HR3 IgA antibodies IRESSA gefitinib TARCEVA erlotinib or OSI 774 TP 38 EGFR fusion protein TYKERB lapatinib and the like.

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include CP 724 714 CI 1033 canertinib HERCEPTIN trastuzumab TYKERB lapatinib OMNITARG 2C4 petuzumab TAK 165 GW 572016 ionafarnib GW 282974 EKB 569 PI 166 dHER2 HER2 vaccine APC 8024 HER 2 vaccine anti HER 2neu bispecific antibody B7.her2IgG3 AS HER2 trifunctional bispecfic antibodies mAB AR 209 mAB 2B 1 and the like.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors include depsipeptide LAQ 824 MS 275 trapoxin suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA TSA valproic acid and the like.

HSP 90 inhibitors include 17 AAG nab 17 AAG CNF 101 CNF 1010 CNF 2024 17 DMAG geldanamycin IPI 504 KOS 953 MYCOGRAB human recombinant antibody to HSP 90 NCS 683664 PU24FCl PU 3 radicicol SNX 2112 STA 9090 VER49009 and the like.

Inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins include HGS1029 GDC 0145 GDC 0152 LCL 161 LBW 242 and the like.

Antibody drug conjugates include anti CD22 MC MMAF anti CD22 MC MMAE anti CD22 MCC DM1 CR 011 vcMMAE PSMA ADC MEDI 547 SGN 19 Am SGN 35 SGN 75 and the like

Activators of death receptor pathway include TRAIL antibodies or other agents that target TRAIL or death receptors e.g. DR4 and DR5 such as Apomab conatumumab ETR2 ST01 GDC0145 lexatumumab HGS 1029 LBY 135 PRO 1762 and trastuzumab.

Kinesin inhibitors include Eg5 inhibitors such as AZD4877 ARRY 520 CENPE inhibitors such as GSK923295A and the like.

mTOR inhibitors include AP 23573 CCl 779 everolimus RAD 001 rapamycin temsirolimus ATP competitive TORC1 TORC2 inhibitors including PI 103 PP242 PP30 Torin 1 and the like.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs include AMIGESIC salsalate DOLOBID diflunisal MOTRIN ibuprofen ORUDIS ketoprofen RELAFEN nabumetone FELDENE piroxicam ibuprofen cream ALEVE naproxen and NAPROSYN naproxen VOLTAREN diclofenac INDOCIN indomethacin CLINORIL sulindac TOLECTIN tolmetin LODINE etodolac TORADOL ketorolac DAYPRO oxaprozin and the like.

Platinum chemotherapeutics include cisplatin ELOXATIN oxaliplatin eptaplatin lobaplatin nedaplatin PARAPLATIN carboplatin satraplatin picoplatin and the like.

Phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors include wortmannin LY294002 XL 147 CAL 120 ONC 21 AEZS 127 ETP 45658 PX 866 GDC 0941 BGT226 BEZ235 XL765 and the like.

VEGFR inhibitors include AVASTIN bevacizumab ABT 869 AEE 788 ANGIOZYME a ribozyme that inhibits angiogenesis Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals Boulder Colo. and Chiron Emeryville Calif. axitinib AG 13736 AZD 2171 CP 547 632 IM 862 MACUGEN pegaptamib NEXAVAR sorafenib BAY43 9006 pazopanib GW 786034 vatalanib PTK 787 ZK 222584 SUTENT sunitinib SU 11248 VEGF trap ZACTIMA vandetanib ZD 6474 and the like.

Antibiotics include intercalating antibiotics aclarubicin actinomycin D amrubicin annamycin adriamycin BLENOXANE bleomycin daunorubicin CAELYX or MYOCET liposomal doxorubicin elsamitrucin epirbucin glarbuicin ZAVEDOS idarubicin mitomycin C nemorubicin neocarzinostatin peplomycin pirarubicin rebeccamycin stimalamer streptozocin VALSTAR valrubicin zinostatin and the like.

Topoisomerase inhibitors include aclarubicin 9 aminocamptothecin amonafide amsacrine becatecarin belotecan BN 80915 CAMPTOSAR irinotecan hydrochloride camptothecin CARD10 ANE dexrazoxine diflomotecan edotecarin ELLENCE or PHARMORUBICIN epirubicin etoposide exatecan 10 hydroxycamptothecin gimatecan lurtotecan mitoxantrone orathecin pirarbucin pixantrone rubitecan sobuzoxane SN 38 tafluposide topotecan and the like.

Antibodies include AVASTIN bevacizumab CD40 specific antibodies chTNT 1 B denosumab ERBITUX cetuximab HUMAX CD4 zanolimumab IGF1R specific antibodies lintuzumab PANOREX edrecolomab RENCAREX WX G250 RITUXAN rituximab ticilimumab trastuzimab CD20 antibodies types I and II and the like.

Hormonal therapies include ARIMIDEX anastrozole AROMASIN exemestane arzoxifene CASODEX bicalutamide CETROTIDE cetrorelix degarelix deslorelin DESOPAN trilostane dexamethasone DROGENIL flutamide EVISTA raloxifene AFEMA fadrozole FARESTON toremifene FASLODEX fulvestrant FEMARA letrozole formestane glucocorticoids HECTOROL doxercalciferol RENAGEL sevelamer carbonate lasofoxifene leuprolide acetate MEGACE megesterol MIFEPREX mifepristone NILANDRON nilutamide NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate PLENAXIS abarelix prednisone PROPECIA finasteride rilostane SUPREFACT buserelin TRELSTAR luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH VANTAS Histrelin implant VETORYL trilostane or modrastane ZOLADEX fosrelin goserelin and the like.

Deltoids and retinoids include seocalcitol EB1089 CB1093 lexacalcitrol KH1060 fenretinide PANRETIN aliretinoin ATRAGEN liposomal tretinoin TARGRETIN bexarotene LGD 1550 and the like.

PARP inhibitors include ABT 888 veliparib olaparib KU 59436 AZD 2281 AG 014699 BSI 201 BGP 15 INO 1001 ONO 2231 and the like.

Plant alkaloids include but are not limited to vincristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine and the like.

Examples of immunologicals include interferons and other immune enhancing agents. Interferons include interferon alpha interferon alpha 2a interferon alpha 2b interferon beta interferon gamma 1a ACTIMMUNE interferon gamma 1b or interferon gamma n1 combinations thereof and the like. Other agents include ALFAFERONE IFN BAM 002 oxidized glutathione BEROMUN tasonermin BEXXAR tositumomab CAMPATH alemtuzumab CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 decarbazine denileukin epratuzumab GRANOCYTE lenograstim lentinan leukocyte alpha interferon imiquimod MDX 010 anti CTLA 4 melanoma vaccine mitumomab molgramostim MYLOTARG gemtuzumab ozogamicin NEUPOGEN filgrastim OncoVAC CL OVAREX oregovomab pemtumomab Y muHMFG1 PROVENGE sipuleucel T sargaramostim sizofilan teceleukin THERACYS Bacillus Calmette Guerin ubenimex VIRULIZIN immunotherapeutic Lorus Pharmaceuticals Z 100 Specific Substance of Maruyama SSM WF 10 Tetrachlorodecaoxide TCDO PROLEUKIN aldesleukin ZADAXIN thymalfasin ZENAPAX daclizumab ZEVALIN 90Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and the like.

Biological response modifiers are agents that modify defense mechanisms of living organisms or biological responses such as survival growth or differentiation of tissue cells to direct them to have anti tumor activity and include krestin lentinan sizofiran picibanil PF 3512676 CpG 8954 ubenimex and the like.

Pyrimidine analogs include cytarabine ara C or Arabinoside C cytosine arabinoside doxifluridine FLUDARA fludarabine 5 FU 5 fluorouracil floxuridine GEMZAR gemcitabine TOMUDEX ratitrexed TROXATYL triacetyluridine troxacitabine and the like.

Antimitotic agents include batabulin epothilone D KOS 862 N 2 4 hydroxyphenyl amino pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxybenzenesulfonamide ixabepilone BMS 247550 paclitaxel TAXOTERE docetaxel PNU100940 109881 patupilone XRP 9881 larotaxel vinflunine ZK EPO synthetic epothilone and the like.

Ubiquitin ligase inhibitors include MDM2 inhibitors such as nutlins NEDD8 inhibitors such as MLN4924 and the like.

Compounds of this invention can also be used as radiosensitizers that enhance the efficacy of radiotherapy. Examples of radiotherapy include external beam radiotherapy teletherapy brachytherapy and sealed unsealed source radiotherapy and the like.

Additionally compounds having Formula I may be combined with other chemotherapeutic agents such as ABRAXANE ABI 007 ABT 100 farnesyl transferase inhibitor ADVEXIN Ad5CMV p53 vaccine ALTOCOR or MEVACOR lovastatin AMPLIGEN poly I poly C12U a synthetic RNA APTOSYN exisulind AREDIA pamidronic acid arglabin L asparaginase atamestane 1 methyl 3 17 dione androsta 1 4 diene AVAGE tazarotene AVE 8062 combreastatin derivative BEC2 mitumomab cachectin or cachexin tumor necrosis factor canvaxin vaccine CEAVAC cancer vaccine CELEUK celmoleukin CEPLENE histamine dihydrochloride CERVARIX human papillomavirus vaccine CHOP C CYTOXAN cyclophosphamide H ADRIAMYCIN hydroxydoxorubicin O Vincristine ONCOVIN P prednisone CYPAT cyproterone acetate combrestatin A4P DAB 389 EGF catalytic and translocation domains of diphtheria toxin fused via a His Ala linker to human epidermal growth factor or TransMID 107R diphtheria toxins dacarbazine dactinomycin 5 6 dimethylxanthenone 4 acetic acid DMXAA eniluracil EVIZON squalamine lactate DIMERICINE T4N5 liposome lotion discodermolide DX 8951f exatecan mesylate enzastaurin EPO906 epithilone B GARDASIL quadrivalent human papillomavirus Types 6 11 16 18 recombinant vaccine GASTRIMMUNE GENASENSE GMK ganglioside conjugate vaccine GVAX prostate cancer vaccine halofuginone histerelin hydroxycarbamide ibandronic acid IGN 101 IL 13 PE38 IL 13 PE38QQR cintredekin besudotox IL 13 pseudomonas exotoxin interferon interferon JUNOVAN or MEPACT mifamurtide lonafarnib 5 10 methylenetetrahydrofolate miltefosine hexadecylphosphocholine NEOVASTAT AE 941 NEUTREXIN trimetrexate glucuronate NIPENT pentostatin ONCONASE a ribonuclease enzyme ONCOPHAGE melanoma vaccine treatment ONCOVAX IL 2 Vaccine ORATHECIN rubitecan OSIDEM antibody based cell drug OVAREX MAb murine monoclonal antibody paclitaxel PANDIMEX aglycone saponins from ginseng comprising 20 S protopanaxadiol aPPD and 20 S protopanaxatriol aPPT panitumumab PANVAC VF investigational cancer vaccine pegaspargase PEG Interferon A phenoxodiol procarbazine rebimastat REMOVAB catumaxomab REVLIMID lenalidomide RSR13 efaproxiral SOMATULINE LA lanreotide SORIATANE acitretin staurosporine Streptomyces staurospores talabostat PT100 TARGRETIN bexarotene TAXOPREXIN DHA paclitaxel TELCYTA canfosfamide TLK286 temilifene TEMODAR temozolomide tesmilifene thalidomide THERATOPE STn KLH thymitaq 2 amino 3 4 dihydro 6 methyl 4 oxo 5 4 pyridylthio quinazoline dihydrochloride TNFERADE adenovector DNA carrier containing the gene for tumor necrosis factor TRACLEER or ZAVESCA bosentan tretinoin Retin A tetrandrine TRISENOX arsenic trioxide VIRULIZIN ukrain derivative of alkaloids from the greater celandine plant vitaxin anti alphavbeta3 antibody XCYTRIN motexafin gadolinium XINLAY atrasentan XYOTAX paclitaxel poliglumex YONDELIS trabectedin ZD 6126 ZINECARD dexrazoxane ZOMETA zolendronic acid zorubicin and the like.

Determination of the utility of compounds having Formula I as binders to and inhibitors of anti apoptotic Bcl xL proteins was performed using the Time Resolved Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer TR FRET Assay. Tb anti GST antibody was purchased from Invitrogen Catalog No. PV4216 .

All reagents were used as obtained from the vendor unless otherwise specified. Peptide synthesis reagents including diisopropylethylamine DIEA dichloromethane DCM N methylpyrrolidone NMP 2 1H benzotriazole 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HBTU N hydroxybenzotriazole HOBt and piperidine were obtained from Applied Biosystems Inc. ABI Foster City Calif. or American Bioanalytical Natick Mass. Preloaded 9 Fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl Fmoc amino acid cartridges Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Cys Trt OH Fmoc Asp tBu OH Fmoc Glu tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Gly OH Fmoc His Trt OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Lys Boc OH Fmoc Met OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Pro OH Fmor Gln Trt OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Trp Boc OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH were obtained from ABI or Anaspec San Jose Calif. The peptide synthesis resin Fmoc Rink amide MBHA resin and Fmoc Lys Mtt OH were obtained from Novabiochem San Diego Calif. Single isomer 6 carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester 6 FAM NHS was obtained from Anaspec. Trifluoroacetic acid TFA was obtained from Oakwood Products West Columbia S.C. Thioanisole phenol triisopropylsilane TIS 3 6 dioxa 1 8 octanedithiol DODT and isopropanol were obtained from Aldrich Chemical Co. Milwaukee Wis. Matrix assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectra MALDI MS were recorded on an Applied Biosystems Voyager DE PRO MS . Electrospray mass spectra ESI MS were recorded on Finnigan SSQ7000 Finnigan Corp. San Jose Calif. in both positive and negative ion mode.

Peptides were synthesized with at most 250 mol preloaded WANG resin vessel on an ABI 433A peptide synthesizer using 250 mol scale FASTMOC coupling cycles. Preloaded cartridges containing 1 mmol standard Fmoc amino acids except for the position of attachment of the fluorophore where 1 mmol Fmoc Lys Mtt OH was placed in the cartridge were used with conductivity feedback monitoring. N terminal acetylation was accomplished by using 1 mmol acetic acid in a cartridge under standard coupling conditions.

The resin from the synthesizer was washed thrice with DCM and kept wet. 150 mL of 95 4 1 dichloromethane triisopropylsilane trifluoroacetic acid was flowed through the resin bed over 30 minutes. The mixture turned deep yellow then faded to pale yellow. 100 mL of DMF was flowed through the bed over 15 minutes. The resin was then washed thrice with DMF and filtered. Ninhydrin tests showed a strong signal for primary amine

The resin was treated with 2 equivalents 6 FAM NHS in 1 DIEA DMF and stiffed or shaken at ambient temperature overnight. When complete the resin was drained washed thrice with DMF thrice with 1 DCM and 1 methanol and dried to provide an orange resin that was negative by ninhydrin test.

Peptides were cleaved from the resin by shaking for 3 hours at ambient temperature in a cleavage cocktail consisting of 80 TFA 5 water 5 thioanisole 5 phenol 2.5 TIS and 2.5 EDT 1 mL 0.1 g resin . The resin was removed by filtration and rinsing twice with TFA. The TFA was evaporated from the filtrates and product was precipitated with ether 10 mL 0.1 g resin recovered by centrifugation washed twice with ether 10 mL 0.1 g resin and dried to give the crude peptide.

The crude peptides were purified on a Gilson preparative HPLC system running Unipoint analysis software Gilson Inc. Middleton Wis. on a radial compression column containing two 25 100 mm segments packed with Delta Pak C18 15 m particles with 100 pore size and eluted with one of the gradient methods listed below. One to two milliliters of crude peptide solution 10 mg mL in 90 DMSO water was purified per injection. The peaks containing the product s from each run were pooled and lyophilized. All preparative runs were run at 20 mL min with eluents as buffer A 0.1 TFA water and buffer B acetonitrile.

Analytical HPLC was performed on a Hewlett Packard 1200 series system with a diode array detector and a Hewlett Packard 1046A fluorescence detector running HPLC 3D CHEMSTATION software version A.03.04 Hewlett Packard. Palo Alto Calif. on a 4.6 250 mm YMC column packed with ODS AQ 5 m particles with a 120 pore size and eluted with one of the gradient methods listed below after preequilibrating at the starting conditions for 7 minutes. Eluents were buffer A 0.1 TFA water and buffer B acetonitrile. The flow rate for all gradients was 1 mL min.

Fmoc Rink amide MBHA resin was extended using the general peptide synthesis procedure to provide the protected resin bound peptide 1.020 g . The Mtt group was removed labeled with 6 FAM NHS and cleaved and deprotected as described hereinabove to provide the crude product as an orange solid 0.37 g . This product was purified by RP HPLC. Fractions across the main peak were tested by analytical RP HPLC and the pure fractions were isolated and lyophilized with the major peak providing the title compound 0.0802 g as a yellow solid MALDI MS m z 2137.1 M H .

The protected peptide was assembled on 0.25 mmol Fmoc Rink amide MBHA resin Novabiochem on an Applied Biosystems 433A automated peptide synthesizer running FASTMOCT coupling cycles using pre loaded 1 mmol amino acid cartridges except for the fluorescein 6 FAM labeled lysine where 1 mmol Fmoc Lys 4 methyltrityl was weighed into the cartridge. The N terminal acetyl group was incorporated by putting 1 mmol acetic acid in a cartridge and coupling as described hereinabove. Selective removal of the 4 methyltrityl group was accomplished with a solution of 95 4 1 DCM TIS TFA v v v flowed through the resin over 15 minutes followed by quenching with a flow of dimethylformamide. Single isomer 6 carboxyfluorescein NHS was reacted with the lysine side chain in 1 DIEA in N N dimethylformamide and confirmed complete by ninhydrin testing. The peptide was cleaved from the resin and side chains deprotected by treating with 80 5 5 5 2.5 2.5 TFA water phenol thioanisole triisopropylsilane 3 6 dioxa 1 8 octanedithiol v v v v v v and the crude peptide was recovered by precipitation with diethyl ether. The crude peptide was purified by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography and its purity and identity were confirmed by analytical reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography and matrix assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry m z 2137.1 M H .

The measurement of competition of compounds of Formula I with F Bak for a Bcl 2 family protein Bcl xL binding site using a Time Resolved Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer TR FRET binding assay 

Test compounds were serially diluted in DMSO starting at 50 M 2 starting concentration 10 DMSO and 10 L transferred into a 384 well plate. Then 10 L of a protein probe antibody mix is added to each well at final concentrations listed in Table 1.

The samples are then mixed on a shaker for 1 minute then incubated for an additional 2 hours at room temperature. For each assay plate a probe antibody and protein antibody probe mixture were included as a negative and a positive control respectively. Fluorescence was measured on the ENVISION plate reader Perkin Elmer using a 340 35 nm excitation filter and 520 525 F Bak and 495 510 nm Tb labeled anti his antibody emission filters. Dissociation constants K were determined using Wang s equation Wang Z. X. An 20 exact mathematical expression for describing competitive binding of two different ligands to protein molecule. FEBS Lett. 1995 360 111 114 . The TR FRET assay can be performed in the presence of varying concentrations of human serum HS or fetal bovine serum FBS . TR FRET assay results Kin nanomolar for representative compounds of Formula I are provided below in Table 2.

For comparison the measurement of the competition of compounds of Formula I for other Bcl 2 family protein binding sites e.g. Bcl 2 using the TR FRET binding assay was accomplished by substituting GST Bcl xL in the TR FRET assay with other GST labeled protein e.g. GST Bcl 2 prepared in house.

In one embodiment compounds of Formula I selectively inhibit the Bcl 2 family protein Bcl x over other Bcl 2 family proteins such as Bcl 2. For comparison data Kin micromolar from the measurement of the competition by certain compounds of Formula I i.e. Examples 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 13 14 and 15 with F Bak for the Bcl 2 binding site using the TR FRET binding assay are 0.031 0.19 1.2 0.395 1.2 0.724 0.230 1.2 0.106 1.2 0.034 0.322 0.092 0.120 and 0.120 respectively.

The efficacy of the compounds of Formula I can also be determined in cell based killing assays using a variety of cell lines and mouse tumor models. For example their activity on cell viability can be assessed on a panel of cultured tumorigenic and non tumorigenic cell lines as well as primary mouse or human cell populations. In one exemplary set of conditions mouse FL5.12 cells transfected with Bcl XL were cultured under standard conditions in RPMI with 2 mM glutamine 1 100 mM sodium pyruvate 2 1 M HEPES 4 L L of mercaptoethanol 1 penicillinstreptomycin 10 FBS and 10 WEHI 3B conditioned media for IL 3 . For assaying the compound activity the cells were exchanged into an IL 3 depleted deprivation media which was identical to the growth media except for the absence of FBS and WEHI 3B conditional media for 2 days. Then the cells were exchanged to 3 FBS assay media RPMI with 2 mM glutamine 1 100 mM sodium pyruvate 2 1 M HEPES 4 L L of mercaptoethanol 1 penicillinstreptomycin 3 FBS . Compounds in series dilutions were added and the cells were cultured for 24 hours. Compounds in series dilutions were added and the cells were cultured for 24 hours. Cell viability was assayed using the CellTiter Glo assay Promega Corp. Madison Wis. according to the manufacturer instructions. Individual determinations were the result of duplicate values. Cell viability assay results ECin nanomolar for representative compounds are provided below in Table 2.

Molt 4 ATCC Manassas Va. human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells were plated 50 000 cells per well in 96 well tissue culture plates in a total volume of 100 L tissue culture medium supplemented with 10 human serum Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. and treated with a 3 fold serial dilution of the compounds of interest from 5 M to 0.020 L. Each concentration was tested in duplicate at least 3 separate times. The number of viable cells following 48 hours of compound treatment was determined using the CellTiter 96 Aqueous non radioactive cell proliferation MTS assay according to manufacturer s recommendations Promega Corp. Madison Wis. . Molt 4 cell viability results i.e. ECin micromolar for certain compounds of Formula I i.e. Examples 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 11 12 13 and 14 are 5 0.082 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 0.18 5 and 5 respectively.

Data in Table 2 and cited Molt 4 data show the utility of compounds of the invention to functionally inhibit anti apoptotic Bcl xL protein in a cellular context. The ability of compounds to kill FL5.12 cells over expressing Bcl xL or human tumor cell lines that are dependant upon Bcl xL such as Molt 4 cells is a direct measure of the compound s ability to inhibit anti apoptotic Bcl xL protein function. Compounds of the invention are very effective in killing FL5.12 cells over expressing Bcl xL or human tumor cell lines that are dependant upon Bcl xL such as Molt 4 cells as demonstrated by low ECvalues.

Overexpression of Bcl xL proteins correlates with resistance to chemotherapy clinical outcome disease progression overall prognosis or a combination thereof in various cancers and disorders of the immune system. Cancers include but are not limited to hematologic and solid tumor types such as acoustic neuroma acute leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia monocytic myeloblastic adenocarcinoma angiosarcoma astrocytoma myelomonocytic and promyelocytic acute t cell leukemia basal cell carcinoma bile duct carcinoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer including estrogen receptor positive breast cancer bronchogenic carcinoma Burkitt s lymphoma cervical cancer chondrosarcoma chordoma choriocarcinoma chronic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cystadenocarcinoma dysproliferative changes dysplasias and metaplasias embryonal carcinoma endometrial cancer endotheliosarcoma ependymoma epithelial carcinoma erythroleukemia esophageal cancer estrogen receptor positive breast cancer essential thrombocythemia Ewing s tumor fibrosarcoma gastric carcinoma germ cell testicular cancer gestational trophobalstic disease glioblastoma head and neck cancer heavy chain disease hemangioblastoma hepatoma hepatocellular cancer hormone insensitive prostate cancer leiomyosarcoma liposarcoma lung cancer including small cell lung cancer and non small cell lung cancer lymphangioendothelio sarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma lymphoma including diffuse large B cell lymphoma follicular lymphoma Hodgkin s lymphoma and non Hodgkin s lymphoma malignancies and hyperproliferative disorders of the bladder breast colon lung ovaries pancreas prostate skin and uterus lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin leukemia medullary carcinoma medulloblastoma melanoma meningioma mesothelioma multiple myeloma myelogenous leukemia myeloma myxosarcoma neuroblastoma oligodendroglioma oral cancer osteogenic sarcoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer papillary adenocarcinomas papillary carcinoma peripheral T cell lymphoma pinealoma polycythemia vera prostate cancer including hormone insensitive refractory prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell carcinoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma sebaceous gland carcinoma seminoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma solid tumors carcinomas and sarcomas stomach cancer squamous cell carcinoma synovioma sweat gland carcinoma testicular cancer including germ cell testicular cancer thyroid cancer Waldenstrm s macroglobulinemia testicular tumors uterine cancer Wilms tumor and the like.

It is also expected that compounds having Formula I would inhibit growth of cells expressing Bcl xL proteins derived from a pediatric cancer or neoplasm including embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia pediatric acute myelogenous leukemia pediatric alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma pediatric anaplastic ependymoma pediatric anaplastic large cell lymphoma pediatric anaplastic medulloblastoma pediatric atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor of the central nervous system pediatric biphenotypic acute leukemia pediatric Burkitts lymphoma pediatric cancers of Ewing s family of tumors such as primitive neuroectodermal rumors pediatric diffuse anaplastic Wilm s tumor pediatric favorable histology Wilm s tumor pediatric glioblastoma pediatric medulloblastoma pediatric neuroblastoma pediatric neuroblastoma derived myelocytomatosis pediatric pre B cell cancers such as leukemia pediatric psteosarcoma pediatric rhabdoid kidney tumor pediatric rhabdomyosarcoma and pediatric T cell cancers such as lymphoma and skin cancer and the like.

Autoimmune disorders include acquired immunodeficiency disease syndrome AIDS autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome hemolytic anemia inflammatory diseases and thrombocytopenia acute or chronic immune disease associated with organ transplantation Addison s disease allergic diseases alopecia alopecia greata atheromatous disease arteriosclerosis atherosclerosis arthritis including osteoarthritis juvenile chronic arthritis septic arthritis Lyme arthritis psoriatic arthritis and reactive arthritis autoimmune bullous disease abetalipoprotemia acquired immunodeficiency related diseases acute immune disease associated with organ transplantation acquired acrocyanosis acute and chronic parasitic or infectious processes acute pancreatitis acute renal failure acute rheumatic fever acute transverse myelitis adenocarcinomas aerial ectopic beats adult acute respiratory distress syndrome AIDS dementia complex alcoholic cirrhosis alcohol induced liver injury alcohol induced hepatitis allergic conjunctivitis allergic contact dermatitis allergic rhinitis allergy and asthma allograft rejection alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency Alzheimer s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis anemia angina pectoris ankylosing spondylitis associated lung disease anterior horn cell degeneration antibody mediated cytotoxicity antiphospholipid syndrome anti receptor hypersensitivity reactions aortic and peripheral aneurysms aortic dissection arterial hypertension arteriosclerosis arteriovenous fistula arthropathy asthenia asthma ataxia atopic allergy atrial fibrillation sustained or paroxysmal atrial flutter atrioventricular block atrophic autoimmune hypothyroidism autoimmune haemolytic anaemia autoimmune hepatitis type 1 autoimmune hepatitis classical autoimmune or lupoid hepatitis autoimmune mediated hypoglycaemia autoimmune neutropaenia autoimmune thrombocytopaenia autoimmune thyroid disease B cell lymphoma bone graft rejection bone marrow transplant BMT rejection bronchiolitis obliterans bundle branch block burns cachexia cardiac arrhythmias cardiac stun syndrome cardiac tumors cardiomyopathy cardiopulmonary bypass inflammation response cartilage transplant rejection cerebellar cortical degenerations cerebellar disorders chaotic or multifocal atrial tachycardia chemotherapy associated disorders chlamydia choleosatatis chronic alcoholism chronic active hepatitis chronic fatigue syndrome chronic immune disease associated with organ transplantation chronic eosinophilic pneumonia chronic inflammatory pathologies chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD chronic salicylate intoxication common varied immunodeficiency common variable hypogammaglobulinaemia conjunctivitis connective tissue disease associated interstitial lung disease contact dermatitis Coombs positive haemolytic anaemia cor pulmonale Creutzfeldt Jakob disease cryptogenic autoimmune hepatitis cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis culture negative sepsis cystic fibrosis cytokine therapy associated disorders Crohn s disease dementia pugilistica demyelinating diseases dengue hemorrhagic fever dermatitis scleroderma dermatologic conditions dermatomyositis polymyositis associated lung disease diabetes diabetic arteriosclerotic disease diabetes mellitus Diffuse Lewy body disease dilated cardiomyopathy dilated congestive cardiomyopathy discoid lupus erythematosus disorders of the basal ganglia disseminated intravascular coagulation Down s Syndrome in middle age drug induced interstitial lung disease drug induced hepatitis drug induced movement disorders induced by drugs which block CNS dopamine receptors drug sensitivity eczema encephalomyelitis endocarditis endocrinopathy enteropathic synovitis epiglottitis Epstein Barr virus infection erythromelalgia extrapyramidal and cerebellar disorders familial hematophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis fetal thymus implant rejection Friedreich s ataxia functional peripheral arterial disorders female infertility fibrosis fibrotic lung disease fungal sepsis gas gangrene gastric ulcer giant cell arteritis glomerular nephritis glomerulonephritides Goodpasture s syndrome goitrous autoimmune hypothyroidism Hashimoto s disease gouty arthritis graft rejection of any organ or tissue graft versus host disease gram negative sepsis gram positive sepsis granulomas due to intracellular organisms group B streptococci GB S infection Grave s disease haemosiderosis associated lung disease hairy cell leukemia hairy cell leukemia Hallervorden Spatz disease Hashimoto s thyroiditis hay fever heart transplant rejection hemachromatosis hematopoietic malignancies leukemia and lymphoma hemolytic anemia hemolytic uremic syndrome thrombolytic thrombocytopenic purpura hemorrhage Henoch Schoenlein purpurea Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Hepatitis C HIV infection HIV neuropathy Hodgkin s disease hypoparathyroidism Huntington s chorea hyperkinetic movement disorders hypersensitivity reactions hypersensitivity pneumonitis hyperthyroidism hypokinetic movement disorders hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis evaluation idiopathic Addison s disease idiopathic leucopaenia idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic thrombocytopaenia idiosyncratic liver disease infantile spinal muscular atrophy infectious diseases inflammation of the aorta inflammatory bowel disease insulin dependent diabetes mellitus interstitial pneumonitis iridocyclitis uveitis optic neuritis ischemia reperfusion injury ischemic stroke juvenile pernicious anaemia juvenile rheumatoid arthritis juvenile spinal muscular atrophy Kaposi s sarcoma Kawasaki s disease kidney transplant rejection leishmaniasis leprosy lesions of the corticospinal system linear IgA disease lipidema liver transplant rejection Lyme disease lymphederma lymphocytic infiltrative lung disease malaria male infertility idiopathic or NOS malignant histiocytosis malignant melanoma meningitis meningococcemia microscopic vasculitis of the kidneys migraine headache mitochondrial multisystem disorder mixed connective tissue disease mixed connective tissue disease associated lung disease monoclonal gammopathy multiple myeloma multiple systems degenerations Mencel Dejerine Thomas Shi Drager and Machado Joseph myalgic encephalitis Royal Free Disease myasthenia gravis microscopic vasculitis of the kidneys mycobacterium avium intracellulare mycobacterium tuberculosis myelodyplastic syndrome myocardial infarction myocardial ischemic disorders nasopharyngeal carcinoma neonatal chronic lung disease nephritis nephrosis nephrotic syndrome neurodegenerative diseases neurogenic I muscular atrophies neutropenic fever Non alcoholic Steatohepatitis occlusion of the abdominal aorta and its branches occlusive arterial disorders organ transplant rejection orchitis epidydimitis orchitis vasectomy reversal procedures organomegaly osteoarthrosis osteoporosis ovarian failure pancreas transplant rejection parasitic diseases parathyroid transplant rejection Parkinson s disease pelvic inflammatory disease pemphigus vulgaris pemphigus foliaceus pemphigoid perennial rhinitis pericardial disease peripheral atherlosclerotic disease peripheral vascular disorders peritonitis pernicious anemia phacogenic uveitis pneumonia pneumonia POEMS syndrome polyneuropathy organomegaly endocrinopathy monoclonal gammopathy and skin changes syndrome post perfusion syndrome post pump syndrome post MI cardiotomy syndrome postinfectious interstitial lung disease premature ovarian failure primary biliary cirrhosis primary sclerosing hepatitis primary myxoedema primary pulmonary hypertension primary sclerosing cholangitis primary vasculitis Progressive supranucleo Palsy psoriasis psoriasis type 1 psoriasis type 2 psoriatic arthropathy pulmonary hypertension secondary to connective tissue disease pulmonary manifestation of polyarteritis nodosa post inflammatory interstitial lung disease radiation fibrosis radiation therapy Raynaud s phenomenon and disease Raynoud s disease Refsum s disease regular narrow QRS tachycardia Reiter s disease renal disease NOS renovascular hypertension reperfusion injury restrictive cardiomyopathy rheumatoid arthritis associated interstitial lung disease rheumatoid spondylitis sarcoidosis Schmidt s syndrome scleroderma senile chorea Senile Dementia of Lewy body type sepsis syndrome septic shock seronegative arthropathies shock sickle cell anemia Sj gren s disease associated lung disease Sj rgren s syndrome skin allograft rejection skin changes syndrome small bowel transplant rejection sperm autoimmunity multiple sclerosis all subtypes spinal ataxia spinocerebellar degenerations spondyloarthopathy sporadic polyglandular deficiency type I sporadic polyglandular deficiency type II Still s disease streptococcal myositis stroke structural lesions of the cerebellum Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis sympathetic ophthalmia Syncope syphilis of the cardiovascular system systemic anaphylaxis systemic inflammatory response syndrome systemic onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus systemic lupus erythematosus associated lung disease systemic sclerosis systemic sclerosis associated interstitial lung disease T cell or FAB ALL Takayasu s disease arteritis Telangiectasia Th2 Type and Th1 Type mediated diseases thromboangitis obliterans thrombocytopenia thyroiditis toxicity toxic shock syndrome transplants trauma hemorrhage type 2 autoimmune hepatitis anti LKM antibody hepatitis type B insulin resistance with acanthosis nigricans type III hypersensitivity reactions type IV hypersensitivity ulcerative colitic arthropathy ulcerative colitis unstable angina uremia urosepsis urticaria uveitis valvular heart diseases varicose veins vasculitis vasculitic diffuse lung disease venous diseases venous thrombosis ventricular fibrillation vitiligo acute liver disease viral and fungal infections vital encephalitis aseptic meningitis vital associated hemaphagocytic syndrome Wegener s granulomatosis Wernicke Korsakoff syndrome Wilson s disease xenograft rejection of any organ or tissue and associated arthropathy and the like.

The following abbreviations have the meanings indicated. ADDP means 1 1 azodicarbonyl dipiperidine AD mix means a mixture of DHQD PHAL KFe CN KCO and KSO 9 BBN means 9 borabicyclo 3.3.1 nonane Boc means tert butoxycarbonyl DHQD PHAL means hydroquinidine 1 4 phthalazinediyldiethyl ether DBU means 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DIBAL means diisobutylaluminum hydride DIEA means diisopropylethylamine DMAP means N N dimethylaminopyridine DMF means N N dimethylformamide dmpe means 1 2 bis dimethylphosphino ethane DMSO means dimethylsulfoxide dppb means 1 4 bis diphenylphosphino butane dppe means 1 2 bis diphenylphosphino ethane dppf means 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dppm means 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino methane EDACHClmeans 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride Fmoc means fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl HATU means O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HMPA means hexamethylphosphoramide IPA means isopropyl alcohol MP BHmeans macroporous triethylammonium methylpolystyrene cyanoborohydride TEA means triethylamine TFA means trifluoroacetic acid THF means tetrahydrofuran NCS means N chlorosuccinimide NMM means N methylmorpholine NMP means N methylpyrrolidine PPhmeans triphenylphosphine.

The following schemes are presented to provide what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood description of procedures and conceptual aspects of this invention. Compounds of this invention may be made by synthetic chemical processes examples of which are shown herein. It is meant to be understood that the order of the steps in the processes may be varied that reagents solvents and reaction conditions may be substituted for those specifically mentioned and that vulnerable moieties may be protected and deprotected as necessary.

As shown in Scheme 1 compounds of formula I wherein X Y R R R m n and p are as described herein can be coupled with compounds of formula 2 wherein Zis as described herein in the presence of 4 dimethylamino pyridine and 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride to provide compounds of formula 3 which are representative of compounds of formula I . The reaction is typically performed at ambient temperature in a solvent such as but not limited to dichloromethane.

Compounds of formula 4 wherein X R R R m n and p are as described herein can be reacted with compounds of formula 5 wherein Rand t are as described herein and Xis chlorine bromine iodine or triflate in the presence of a catalyst such as but not limited to bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II dichloromethane and a ligand such as but not limited to 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl to provide compounds of formula 6 . The reaction is typically performed in a solvent such as but not limited to tetrahydrofuran and typically involves the use of heat. Compounds of formula 6 can be treated with LiOH in water to provide compounds of formula 7 . The reaction is typically performed at ambient temperature in a solvent such as but not limited to tetrahydrofuran. Compounds of formula 7 can be reacted with compounds of formula 2 as described in Scheme 1 to provide compounds of formula 8 which are representative of compounds of formula I .

Compounds of formula 9 wherein X Y R m and n are as described herein can be coupled with compounds of formula 2 wherein Zis as described herein in the presence of 4 dimethylamino pyridine and 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride to provide compounds of formula 10 which are representative of compounds of formula I . The reaction is typically performed at ambient temperature in a solvent such as but not limited to dichloromethane.

As shown in Scheme 4 an ethanolic mixture of ethyl 2 2 dichloroacetate and compounds of formula 12 wherein Rand t are as described herein treated with a base such as but not limited to sodium hydride can be reacted with compounds of formula 11 wherein X R R m and n are as described herein to provide compounds of formula 13 . The reaction is typically performed at a reduced temperature in a solvent such as but not limited to N N dimethylformamide. Compounds of formula 13 can be treated with LiOH in water to provide compounds of formula 14 . The reaction is typically performed at ambient temperature in a solvent such as but not limited to tetrahydrofuran. Compounds of formula 15 which are representative of the compounds of formula I can be prepared by coupling with compounds of formula 2 wherein Zis as described herein in the presence of 4 dimethylamino pyridine and 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride. The reaction is typically performed at ambient temperature in a solvent such as but not limited to dichloromethane.

Compounds of formula 16 wherein X R R m and n are as described herein and wherein SEM is a silyl ether protecting group can be reacted with compounds of formula 17 wherein Ris as described herein in the presence of a palladium catalyst such as but not limited to bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride a copper salt catalyst such as but not limited to CuI and a base such as but not limited to triethylamine provide compounds of formula 18 . The reaction is typically performed at ambient temperature and may be performed in a solvent such as but not limited to tetrahydrofuran. Compounds of formula 19 can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 18 with hydrogen in the presence of Pd C. The reaction is typically performed at ambient temperature in a solvent such as but not limited to ethyl acetate. Compounds of formula 19 can be treated with LiOH in water to provide compounds of formula 20 . The reaction is typically performed at ambient temperature in tetrahydrofuran. Compounds of formula 21 which are representative of the compounds of this invention can be prepared by coupling with compounds of formula 2 wherein Zis as described herein in the presence of 4 dimethylamino pyridine and 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride. The reaction is typically performed at ambient temperature in a solvent such as but not limited to dichloromethane.

The following examples are presented to provide what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood description of procedures and conceptual aspects of this invention. The exemplified compounds were named using ACD ChemSketch Version 5.06 5 Jun. 2001 Advanced Chemistry Development Inc. Toronto Ontario ACD ChemSketch Version 12.01 13 May 2009 Advanced Chemistry Development Inc. Toronto Ontario or ChemDraw Ver. 9.0.5 CambridgeSoft Cambridge Mass. . Intermediates were named using ChemDraw Ver. 9.0.5 CambridgeSoft Cambridge Mass. .

To a solution of 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 8 carboxylic acid 6.8 g and benzo d thiazol 2 amine 5.52 g in dichloromethane 80 mL was added 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 9.4 g and 4 dimethylamino pyridine 6 g . The mixture was stirred overnight diluted with dichloromethane 400 mL and washed with 5 aqueous HCl and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSOand concentrated to give the titled product.

To a solution of Example 1A 8.5 g in dichloromethane 80 mL was added 2N HCl in ether 80 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred overnight and concentrated to give the title product.

To a solution of Example 1B 5.3 g and methyl 2 chlorothiazole 4 carboxylate 2.5 g in N N dimethylacetamide 60 mL was added CsCO 25 g . The mixture was stirred at 50 C. overnight cooled to room temperature and acidified with 5 aqueous HCl. The resulting mixture was extracted with dichloromethane and washed with water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 5 methanol in dichloromethane to give the title compound.

To a solution of Example 1C 180 mg in tetrahydrofuran 4 mL and methanol 2 mL was added 2N NaOH 2 mL . The mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 4 hours cooled and neutralized by the slow addition of 5 aqueous HCl. The precipitates were collected by filtration and dried to provide the title compound.

Example 1D 100 mg Example 1F 117 mg and 4 dimethylamino pyridine 84 mg in dichloromethane were treated with 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 52.7 mg overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by reverse phase chromatography eluting with 40 70 acetonitrile in water containing 01 v v trifluoroacetic acid to provide the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.93 s 1H 9.42 s 1H 8.57 d 1H 8.32 d 1H 8.03 d 1H 7.87 dd 1H 7.80 d 1H 7.68 7.73 m 2H 7.45 7.51 m 2H 7.34 7.43 m 2H 7.22 7.26 m 2H 7.10 7.19 m 4H 4.86 s 2H 4.10 4.23 m 1H 3.83 3.92 m 2H 3.32 3.42 m 2H 3.00 3.19 m 4H 2.67 2.80 m 6H 2.14 q 2H .

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 10C replacing 4 fluoro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide with 4 fluoro 3 trifluoromethylsulfonyl benzenesulfonamide.

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 1G replacing Example 1F with Example 2D. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.91 s 1H 8.13 d 1H 8.02 d 1H 7.96 dd 1H 7.79 d 1H 7.68 d 1H 7.44 7.54 m 3H 7.31 7.42 m 4H 7.27 t 2H 7.18 t 1H 7.00 d 1H 6.90 d 1H 4.84 s 2H 4.06 d 1H 3.82 t 2H 3.57 s 4H 3.24 3.39 m 6H 3.04 t 2H 2.53 2.71 m 2H 1.92 2.05 m 1H 1.79 1.90 m 1H .

A mixture of Example 5D 0.9 g and 10 Pd C 0.169 g in methanol 50 mL was purged with hydrogen gas and stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere for 24 hours at ambient temperature. The insoluble material was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by HPLC to provide the title compound.

Example 3A 110 mg was dissolved in dichloromethane 3 mL and treated with trifluoroacetic acid 3 mL for 12 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated to provide the title compound.

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 1G replacing Example 1D and Example 1F with Example 3B and Example 2D respectively. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.87 s 1H 11.18 s 1H 8.21 d 1H 7.97 8.04 m 2H 7.80 d 1H 7.69 dd 1H 7.63 d 1H 7.42 7.50 m 2H 7.30 7.39 m 4H 7.20 7.28 m 3H 7.13 7.18 m 1H 6.96 7.07 m 3H 4.94 s 2H 3.97 4.15 m 3H 3.23 3.42 m 8H 3.01 t 2H 2.26 2.48 m 4H 1.89 2.04 m 1H 1.72 1.87 m 1H .

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 10C replacing Example 10B with N N dimethylpropane 1 3 diamine.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1C replacing Example 1A and Example 1B with Example 5F and Example 4A respectively.

2 tert Butoxycarbonyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 8 carboxylic acid 6.7 g benzo d thiazol 2 amine 5.5 g and 4 dimethylaminopyridine 6.6 g in dichloromethane 78 mL were treated with 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 9.3 g at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane 450 mL and washed with 3 aqueous HCl water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound.

Example 5A 6.7 g in dichloromethane 70 mL was treated with 2N HCl in ether 80 mL at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated to provide the title compound.

To a solution of 2 chloro 5 bromo picolinic acid 4 g and pyridine 9.2 mL in t butanol 33 mL at 0 C. was added p toluenesulfonyl chloride 7.7 g . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. Saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution was added and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phase was washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound.

A mixture of Example 5C 0.736 g Example 5B 1.62 g and CsCO 4.1 g in N N dimethylformamide 15 mL was heated at 120 C. for 12 hours cooled diluted with ethyl acetate and acidified with 10 citric acid. The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 0 40 ethyl acetate in hexanes to provide the title compound.

To a mixture of Example 5D 200 mg 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II dichloromethane 28.9 mg and 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl 22 mg in tetrahydrofuran 3 mL was added 3 phenylpropyl zinc II bromide 1.42 mL . The resulting suspension was heated in a Biotage microwave synthesizer at 100 C. for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was filtered through a sintered glass funnel. The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative TLC eluting with 40 acetone in petroleum ether to provide the title compound.

Example 5E 200 mg in dichloromethane 5 mL was treated with trifluoroacetic acid 5 mL overnight. The solution was concentrated to provide the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 10C replacing Example 10B and 4 fluoro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide with N N dimethylpropane 1 3 diamine and 4 fluoro 3 trifluoromethylsulfonyl benzenesulfonamide respectively.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1C replacing Example 1A and Example 1B with Example 5F and Example 5G respectively.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 5E replacing 3 phenylpropyl zinc II bromide with phenethylzinc II bromide.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 5F replacing Example 5E with Example 6A.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1C replacing Example 1A and Example 1B with Example 6B and Example 4A respectively.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1C replacing Example 1B with Example 5G. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 8.37 s 1H 8.16 d 1H 7.81 d 1H 7.65 d 1H 7.56 d 1H 7.26 7.39 m 7H 6.75 dd 1H 4.91 s 2H 3.81 t 2H 3.30 s 2H 3.04 t 2H 2.47 s 2H 2.26 s 6H 1.84 1.79 m 2H .

To a mixture of Example 1B 1.1 g and triethylamine 1.439 g in DMF 18 mL was added di 1H imidazol 1 yl methanethione 0.76 g . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes and 7 N ammonia in methanol 40 equiv was added slowly. The reaction mixture was stirred for 12 hours and concentrated to give the title product which was used in the next step without further purification.

NaH 74.9 mg was added portionwise to ethanol 0.109 mL . The mixture was cooled in an ice bath and slowly added to a mixture of ethyl 2 2 dichloroacetate 294 mg 1.87 and 2 phenylacetaldehyde 225 mg in N N dimethylformamide 20 mL at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred at 0 C. for 1.5 hours and diluted with ether. The layers were separated and the organic was washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was added to a solution of Example 8A 690 mg in N N dimethylformamide 20 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at 50 C. overnight and diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative TLC eluting with 30 ethyl acetate in heptane to give the title product.

Example 8B 669 mg in tetrahydrofuran 3 mL was treated with LiOH 289 mg in water 1 mL for 12 hours. The solution was acidified with concentrated HCl and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and washed with brine. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative TLC eluting with 60 ethyl acetate in heptane to provide the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1C replacing Example 1A and Example 1B with Example 8C and Example 5G respectively.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1C replacing Example 1A and Example 1B with Example 8C and Example 4A respectively.

To a solution of R tert butyl 3 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonylamino 4 hydroxybutanoate 2.6 g in toluene 15 mL was added 1 2 diphenyldisulfane 2.86 g and tributylphosphine 1.588 g . The resulting solution was heated in a Biotage microwave synthesizer to 110 C. for 30 minutes and was concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC to provide the title compound.

Example 10A 3.6 g in dichloromethane 16 mL was treated with piperidine 4 mL at 25 C. for 6 hours. The solvent was removed to provide the title compound.

4 Fluoro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide 1.23 g and Example 10B 1.49 g in N N dimethylformamide 20 mL were treated with N ethyl N isopropylpropan 2 amine 2.88 g at 25 C. overnight. The mixture was washed with water. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 10 ethyl acetate in hexane to give the title product.

Example 10C 2.3 g in dichloromethane 20 mL was treated with 2 2 2 trifluoroacetic acid 4 mL for 6 hours. The solvent was removed to provide the title compound.

To a mixture of Example 10D 0.75 g and morpholine 0.318 g in N N dimethylformamide 5 mL were added N N dimethylpyridin 4 amine 0.445 g and 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 0.699 g . The mixture was stirred overnight diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with 5 aqueous HCl and water. The organic layer was dried over NaSOand concentrated to give the title compound.

Example 10E 0.68 g in tetrahydrofuan 5 mL was treated with 1M BH THF solution 5 mL at 25 C. overnight. The solution was concentrated and the residue was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 10 methanol in dichloromethane to provide the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1G replacing Example 1F with Example 10F respectively. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 8.77 d 1H 8.55 d 1H 7.90 dd 1H 7.46 7.76 m 1H 7.55 d 1H 7.39 s 1H 7.22 7.29 m 7H 7.14 7.18 m 3H 6.64 d 1H 4.88 s 2H 3.93 3.94 m 1H 3.74 t 2H 3.56 3.62 m 4H 3.04 3.07 m 2H 2.98 t 2H 2.29 2.37 m 4H 2.03 2.06 m 2H 1.70 1.76 m 2H .

To a solution of 3 phenylpropanal 2 g and ethyl 2 2 dichloroacetate 2.34 g in diethyl ether 11 mL at 0 C. was added a solution of NaH 0.656 g in ethanol 0.8 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1.5 hours and diluted with diethyl ether. The resulting mixture was washed with brine and the organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was dried in vacuo and dissolved in ethanol 1.6 mL . The resulting solution was then treated with Example 8A 0.5 g in N N dimethylformamide. The reaction mixture was heated at 50 C. for 12 hours and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and purified by preparative TLC eluting with 33 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to provide the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 8C replacing Example 8B with Example 11A.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1C replacing Example 1A and Example 1B with Example 11B and Example 5G respectively. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.15 d 1H 8.03 8.06 m 2H 7.80 d 1H 7.65 d 1H 7.48 t 1H 7.43 d 1H 7.34 7.39 m 2H 7.19 7.24 m 5H 7.11 7.15 m 1H 7.04 d 1H 4.74 s 2H 3.72 t 2H 3.21 3.26 m 4H 3.00 t 2H 2.85 2.89 m 2H 2.77 t 2H 2.60 s 6H 1.71 1.86 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 10E replacing Example 10D and morpholine with Example 2B and dimethylamine respectively.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 10F replacing Example 10E with Example 12A.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1G replacing Example 1F with Example 12B. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 8.36 s 1H 8.04 d 1H 7.85 d 1H 7.78 d 2H 7.51 t 1H 7.40 7.43 m 4H 7.31 d 2H 7.22 t 2H 6.88 d 1H 6.54 d 1H 4.96 s 2H 3.77 t 2H 2.97 3.06 m 5H 2.84 2.96 m 2H 2.70 s 6H 1.88 2.03 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1C replacing Example 1A and Example 1B with Example 11B and Example 4A respectively. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.55 d 2H 8.04 d 1H 7.92 dd 1H 7.80 d 1H 7.65 d 1H 7.48 t 1H 7.34 7.44 m 3H 7.19 7.24 m 4H 7.11 7.15 m 1H 7.08 d 1H 4.74 s 2H 3.72 t 2H 3.45 q 2H 3.23 3.27 m 2H 3.00 t 2H 2.90 2.94 m 2H 2.75 2.79 m 2H 2.61 s 6H 1.85 1.92 m 2H .

 R 2 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonylamino 4 tert butoxy 4 oxobutanoic acid 8.2 g in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL was treated with BH THF 39.9 mL overnight. The reaction mixture was quenched with water and extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 30 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to provide the title compound.

A mixture of Example 14A 2.2 g tributylphosphine 1.23 g and 1 2 diphenyldisulfane 1.81 g in toluene 12 mL was heated to 110 C. for 2 hours in a CME microwave synthesizer cooled and diluted with ethyl acetate. The resulting solution was washed with brine and the organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to provide the title compound.

Example 14B 2.2 g in dichloromethane 50 mL was treated with piperidine 4.45 mL overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane and washed with water. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 30 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to provide the title compound.

A mixture of Example 14C 330 mg 4 fluoro 3 trifluoromethylsulfonyl benzenesulfonamide 455 mg and triethylamine 1 mL in N N dimethylformamide 8 mL was heated to 65 C. overnight and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and washed with water. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to provide the title compound.

Example 14D 250 mg in dichloromethane 2 mL was treated with trifluoroacetic acid 0.347 mL for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated to provide the title compound.

Example 14E 60 mg in tetrahydrofuran 1 mL was treated with 1M BH THF 1.204 mL overnight. The reaction mixture was quenched with water and the resulting aqueous mixture was extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 14 methanol in dichloromethane to provide the title compound.

A mixture of Example 1A 20 mg Example 14F 22.2 mg HATU O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate 17.4 mg triethylamine 0.007 mL and 4 dimethylamino pyridine 5.6 mg in dichloromethane were stirred at 50 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated. The residue was purified by HPLC eluting with a gradient of 40 to 80 acetonitrile in water containing 0.1 v v trifluoroacetic acid to provide the title compound.

To a solution of Example 1B 2 g and methyl 2 chloro 5 iodothiazole 4 carboxylate 1.66 g in N N dimethylacetamide 10 mL was added CsCO 8.5 g . The mixture was stirred at 60 C. overnight then cooled to room temperature and acidified with 5 aqueous HCl. The resulting mixture was extracted with dichloromethane and washed with water brine and dried over NaSO and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 5 methanol in dichloromethane to give the title compound.

To a solution of Example 15A 2.0 g and 2 chloromethoxy ethyl trimethylsilane 1.2 g in dichloromethane 20 mL was added triethylamine 1.55 g . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 20 ethyl acetate in hexane to give the title compound.

To a solution of Example 15B 1.69 g in tetrahydrofuran 30 mL was added bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 88 mg CuI 4.8 mg prop 2 ynylbenzene 584 mg and triethylamine 1.5 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours diluted with diethyl ether and washed with water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes to give the title compound.

To a solution of Example 15C 1.2 g in ethyl acetate 120 mL was added Pd C 500 mg 5 . The mixture was stirred under an atmosphere of hydrogen balloon overnight. The insoluble material was filtered off and washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated to provide the title compound.

Example 15D 1.2 g in dichloromethane 30 mL was treated with trifluoroacetic acid 30 mL overnight. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was taken into ethyl acetate 400 mL and washed with aqueous NaHCO water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in a solvent mixture of tetrahydrofuran 20 mL and methanol 10 mL and treated with solution of lithium hydroxide monohydrate 1.2 g in water 10 mL overnight. The mixture was concentrated. The residue was suspended in ethyl acetate 400 mL washed with 2N aqueous HCl 60 mL and brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by following the procedure described in Example 1G replacing Example 1D and Example 1F with Example 15E and Example 4A respectively.

It has been contemplated that the following compounds of Formula I could be prepared using methods similar to those described in the Schemes and Experimental sections herein.

