---

title: Vertically adjustable armrest assembly for a vehicle interior component
abstract: An armrest assembly includes a pivot joint positioned at a first longitudinal end of the armrest assembly. The pivot joint is configured to rotatably couple the armrest assembly to a housing of a vehicle interior component. The armrest assembly also includes an armrest configured to rotate about the pivot joint between a lowered position and a raised position. In addition, the armrest assembly includes an adjustment mechanism positioned at a second longitudinal end of the armrest assembly, opposite the first longitudinal end. The adjustment mechanism is configured to hold the armrest in one of a variety of vertical positions including the lowered position and the raised position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09409502&OS=09409502&RS=09409502
owner: 
number: 09409502
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130919
---
This application is a national stage of PCT Application No. PCT US2013 60623 entitled VERTICALLY ADJUSTABLE ARMREST ASSEMBLY FOR A VEHICLE INTERIOR COMPONENT filed on Sep. 19 2013 which claims priority from and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 703 886 entitled VERTICALLY ADJUSTABLE ARMREST ASSEMBLY FOR A VEHICLE INTERIOR COMPONENT filed Sep. 21 2012. Each of the foregoing applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to a vertically adjustable armrest assembly for a vehicle interior component.

Certain vehicles include an armrest to facilitate passenger comfort. The armrest may be coupled to a vehicle seat a door panel and or a floor console. In certain configurations the vertical position of the armrest is adjustable to accommodate vehicle occupants of different heights and or builds. For example the armrest may be configured to rotate about a pivot joint between a lowered position and a raised position. An adjustment mechanism may be employed to hold the armrest in a desired position e.g. between the lowered position and the raised position . Certain adjustment mechanisms are integrated within the pivot joint and or coupled to the pivot joint to selectively block rotation of the armrest when a desired armrest position is achieved. Unfortunately such adjustment mechanisms may be subjected to a large torque as the vehicle occupant applies weight to the armrest. Accordingly the adjustment mechanisms may be constructed from heavy and or expensive materials e.g. steel to resist the torque thereby increasing the weight and or manufacturing cost of the vehicle.

In certain configurations the vertically adjustable armrest may be positioned over a storage compartment. The armrest is configured to block an opening in the storage compartment while in the lowered position thereby retaining items e.g. portable electronic devices glasses documentation etc. within the storage compartment. Unfortunately when the armrest is rotated to the raised position the opening may be uncovered thereby enabling items to be released from the storage compartment during vehicle operation.

The present invention relates to an armrest assembly including a pivot joint positioned at a first longitudinal end of the armrest assembly. The pivot joint is configured to rotatably couple the armrest assembly to a housing of a vehicle interior component. The armrest assembly also includes an armrest configured to rotate about the pivot joint between a lowered position and a raised position. The armrest assembly further includes a shroud positioned below the armrest and configured to rotate with the armrest about the pivot joint. The shroud and the armrest are configured to substantially cover an opening in a storage compartment of the housing while the armrest is in the lowered position the raised position or a position therebetween. In addition the armrest assembly includes an adjustment mechanism positioned at a second longitudinal end of the armrest assembly opposite the first longitudinal end. The adjustment mechanism is configured to hold the armrest in one of a variety of vertical positions including the lowered position and the raised position.

The present invention also relates to an armrest assembly including a pivot joint positioned at a first longitudinal end of the armrest assembly. The pivot joint is configured to rotatably couple the armrest assembly to a housing of a vehicle interior component. The armrest assembly also includes an armrest configured to rotate about the pivot joint between a lowered position and a raised position. In addition the armrest assembly includes an adjustment mechanism positioned at a second longitudinal end of the armrest assembly opposite the first longitudinal end. The adjustment mechanism is configured to hold the armrest in one of a variety of vertical positions including the lowered position and the raised position.

The present invention further relates to an armrest assembly including a pivot joint configured to rotatably couple the armrest assembly to a housing of a vehicle interior component. The armrest assembly also includes an armrest configured to rotate about the pivot joint between a lowered position and a raised position. In addition the armrest assembly includes a shroud positioned below the armrest and configured to rotate with the armrest about the pivot joint. The shroud and the armrest are configured to substantially cover an opening in a storage compartment of the housing while the armrest is in the lowered position the raised position or a position therebetween.

In certain embodiments the armrest assembly includes an adjustment mechanism positioned at a second longitudinal end of the armrest assembly opposite the first longitudinal end. For example the pivot joint may be positioned at a rear portion of the armrest assembly and the adjustment mechanism may be positioned at a front portion of the armrest assembly. The adjustment mechanism is configured to hold the armrest in one of a number of vertical positions including the lowered position and the raised position. Because the adjustment mechanism is positioned at the opposite longitudinal end of the armrest assembly from the pivot joint the adjustment mechanism may be subjected to less loading e.g. torque than an adjustment mechanism integrated within or coupled to the pivot joint. Accordingly the adjustment mechanism may be constructed from lighter and or less expensive materials thereby reducing vehicle weight and or manufacturing costs.

While the vertically adjustable armrest assembly is described below with reference to a floor console it should be appreciated that the vertically adjustable armrest assembly may be employed within other vehicle interior components. For example a seat a door panel and or a rear seat assembly may include a vertically adjustable armrest configured to be raised and or lowered to a position that facilitates driver and or passenger comfort. In certain embodiments the armrest assembly may include a shroud configured to substantially cover an opening in the storage compartment while the armrest is in the lowered position the raised position or a position therebetween. The armrest assembly may also include an adjustment mechanism positioned at the opposite longitudinal end of the armrest assembly from the pivot joint to facilitate reduced structural loading on the adjustment mechanism.

The shroud is disposed about a vertical extension of the housing . With the armrest in the lowered position the shroud substantially covers the vertical extension. When the armrest is rotated in an upward direction a portion of the vertical extension is exposed. Contact between the shroud and the vertical extension blocks items from being released from the storage compartment. Items within the storage compartment are retained regardless of armrest position. The armrest may also be rotated in a downward direction to the illustrated lowered position. An adjustment mechanism may be employed to control movement of the armrest relative to the floor console and to hold the armrest in one of a variety of vertical positions.

The armrest assembly includes a pivot joint positioned at a rearward longitudinal end of the armrest assembly . The pivot joint is configured to rotatably couple the armrest assembly to the housing of the floor console . The armrest is configured to rotate about the pivot joint between the lowered position and the raised position. The shroud is configured to rotate with the armrest about the pivot joint . The shroud and the armrest are configured to substantially cover an opening in the storage compartment while the armrest is in the lowered position see the raised position see or a position between the lowered position and the raised position.

The armrest is configured to rotate about the pivot joint relative to the shroud to facilitate access to the storage compartment . While the armrest is in the closed position the armrest and the shroud substantially cover the opening in the storage compartment blocking access to items within the storage compartment. A vehicle occupant may rotate the armrest to an open position enabling the occupant to access items within the storage compartment . According to an exemplary embodiment the armrest assembly includes a release mechanism configured to selectively block rotation of the armrest relative to the shroud . The armrest may be held in the closed position during vehicle operation. By engaging the release mechanism an occupant may rotate the armrest to the open position facilitating access to the storage compartment . The armrest may be rotated between the open position and the closed position independently of the vertical height adjustment. A vehicle occupant may access the storage compartment while the armrest is in the raised position the lowered position or a position between.

The shroud is disposed about the vertical extension of the housing . Contact between the shroud and the vertical extension blocks items from being released from the storage compartment . Items within the storage compartment are retained regardless of armrest position. The adjustment mechanism is positioned within a cavity between an exterior surface of the floor console and an interior surface of the storage compartment . The adjustment mechanism is hidden from the vehicle occupants enhancing the appearance of the vehicle interior.

According to an exemplary embodiment the pivot joint is configured to rotatably couple the armrest assembly to the housing of the floor console . The armrest is configured to rotate about the pivot joint between the lowered position and the raised position. The shroud is configured to rotate with the armrest about the pivot joint . The shroud and the armrest are configured to substantially cover an opening in the storage compartment while the armrest is in the lowered position see the raised position see or a position between the lowered position and the raised position.

According to an exemplary embodiment the armrest is configured to rotate between a lowered position and a raised position. A shroud is positioned below the armrest and configured to rotate with the armrest. The shroud and the armrest are configured to substantially cover the opening in the storage compartment while the armrest is in the lowered position the raised position or a position between and the tambour door is closed. Access to the storage compartment is provided by the tambour door . A gap is formed between the armrest and the housing to facilitate rotation of the armrest relative to the housing . The tambour door extends across the gap substantially enclosing the storage compartment regardless of armrest position.

While an armrest configured to rotate relative to the shroud and an armrest having a tambour door have been described above it should be appreciated that the armrest assembly may include other armrest configurations. For example certain armrest assemblies may include an armrest configured to slide in the longitudinal direction e.g. fore and aft relative to the shroud. In such a configuration the armrest may be positioned at a desired vertical position and a desired longitudinal position thereby enhancing passenger comfort. Similar to the embodiments described above with reference to the sliding armrest may rotate relative to the shroud to facilitate access to the storage compartment. However with the sliding armrest in the closed position access to the storage compartment may be blocked throughout the longitudinal and vertical ranges of motion of the armrest.

In the illustrated embodiment the adjustment mechanism includes a biasing member such as the illustrated tape spring extending between the carrier and a mount on the guide . The tape spring is configured to urge the armrest toward the lowered position thereby resisting upward movement of the armrest during operation of the vehicle. In addition the adjustment mechanism includes a damping member extending between the carrier and the guide . The damping member is configured to damp movement of the armrest relative to the housing . In the illustrated embodiment the damping member includes a gear configured to engage a rack of the guide . The damping member is configured to resist rotation of the gear thereby damping movement of the carrier along the guide .

The adjustment mechanism includes a follower rotatably coupled to the carrier and a track within the guide . A biasing assembly is configured to urge a pin of the follower into the track enabling the pin to follow the contours of the track . The follower includes a protrusion configured to engage an extension of the carrier . Contact between the protrusion and the extension blocks rotation of the upper end of the follower away from the guide substantially reducing or eliminating the possibility of the pin disengaging the track . The protrusion and the extension facilitate rotation e.g. to pivot of the follower enabling the pin to follow the contours of the track. The track includes multiple notches configured to capture the pin blocking downward movement of the armrest relative to the housing .

The track includes multiple notches configured to capture the pin blocking downward movement of the armrest relative to the housing. The track includes a first notch corresponding to the lowered position of the armrest. To increase a height of the armrest an occupant lifts the armrest in the upward direction until a desired armrest position is achieved. The occupant then releases the armrest and a combination of the weight of the armrest and the force of the tape spring drives the armrest in the downward direction until the pin engages the first notch below the release point. If the occupant releases the armrest while the pin is between the first notch and a second notch the armrest moves downwardly until the pin engages the first notch if the occupant releases the armrest while the pin is between the second notch and a third notch the armrest moves downwardly until the pin engages the second notch . The pin may engage the third notch a fourth notch or a fifth notch e.g. corresponding to the raised position of the armrest in a similar manner. To lower the armrest the occupant lifts the armrest above the fifth notch such that the pin engages a straight portion of the track . Upon release of the armrest the combination of the armrest weight and the force of the tape spring urges the armrest back to the first notch . As the armrest moves in the downward direction the damping member limits the speed of the armrest reducing the contact force between the pin and the first notch and providing smooth armrest movement.

To raise the armrest to the next higher vertical position the occupant lifts the armrest in the upward direction. A second ramp drives the pin outwardly e.g. away from the guide against the bias of the biasing assembly . At the end of the ramp which corresponds to a second ridge the pin moves inwardly e.g. toward the guide . Contact between the pin and the ridge blocks movement of the pin toward the second notch . The ridge directs the pin toward the third notch . If the armrest is released between the third notch and the fourth notch the combination of the armrest weight and the force of the tape spring drives the pin into the third notch . The track also includes a third ramp extending to a third ridge which is configured to direct the pin toward the fourth notch . The track includes a fourth ramp extending to a fourth ridge which is configured to direct the pin toward the fifth notch .

The forth ridge is also configured to direct the pin toward the straight portion of the track upon upward movement of the armrest beyond the fifth notch . To transition the armrest to the lowered position the occupant lifts the armrest to the maximum vertical position and then releases the armrest. The weight of the armrest and the force applied by the tape spring drive the pin in the downward direction to the first notch returning the armrest to the lowered position. While the embodiment includes five notches which correspond to five vertical armrest positions alternative embodiments may include more or fewer notches vertical armrest positions providing a corresponding number of vertical armrest positions .

The biasing assembly is configured to urge the pin against the track enabling the pin to follow the contours of the ramps and ridges. As the pin moves along a ramp the pin is driven to compress the spring . At the end of the ramp the compressed spring drives the pin in the opposite direction to facilitate contact between the pin and a corresponding ridge and or notch. The possibility of the pin disengaging the track is substantially reduced or eliminated.

While only certain features and embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described many modifications and changes may occur to those skilled in the art e.g. variations in sizes dimensions structures shapes and proportions of the various elements values of parameters e.g. temperatures pressures etc. mounting arrangements use of materials colors orientations etc. without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the subject matter recited in the claims. The order or sequence of any process or method steps may be varied or re sequenced according to alternative embodiments. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention. Furthermore in an effort to provide a concise description of the exemplary embodiments all features of an actual implementation may not have been described i.e. those unrelated to the presently contemplated best mode of carrying out the invention or those unrelated to enabling the claimed invention . It should be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation as in any engineering or design project numerous implementation specific decisions may be made. Such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of design fabrication and manufacture for those of ordinary skill having the benefit of this disclosure without undue experimentation.

