---

title: Second screen mediation
abstract: A system authenticates a first session for a first application running on a workstation and a second session for a second application running on a second screen device. The system links the first application to the second application when the first session matches the second session. The system receives data indicating the linked first application was changed at the workstation and provides update data to the second application corresponding to the change in the linked workstation application, causing a display of the second screen device to update based on the update data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148425&OS=09148425&RS=09148425
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09148425
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130823
---
One embodiment is directed generally to a mediation service and in particular to mediation service for managing information on a second screen.

As businesses rely more on software for their workflows and business decisions software user interfaces have become crowded and complex. Display screens have become inundated with burgeoning business workflows with additional steps for more roles and more scenarios data fields for each rare use case and in context reports and impact analyses reflecting ever broadening sets of data gathered by business intelligence and analytics tools. This is in addition to the multiple applications whether integrated or not that need to be used simultaneously to complete a task. Corporate software users are facing a distracting amount of information on a single screen something that has been handled by sectioning the screen into areas of interest dividing information into relevant tabs or adding additional display monitors to the system. In all of these solutions the same general interface is used to interact with the data e.g. a mouse and keyboard.

Further the modern computer user has become comfortable with and adept at using a personal mobile device to augment daily tasks. Smartphones and tablets have considerable computing power and ubiquity to the point that they are replacing the personal computer for many tasks. The explosive growth of and reliance on mobile devices has made them a common sight in people s hands while for example waiting in line riding a bus conversing with others or glancing at a newsfeed or the clock. Mobile devices have become one way to augment people s daily lives and tasks with information. For example during family television viewing some may have a mobile device on hand for either keeping abreast of unrelated information during television programming lulls or for expanded data about what is being watched such as reading Twitter feeds while watching coverage of an election night or natural disaster for commentary and immediate updates. This use of mobile devices to augment television viewing has been called the second screen phenomenon and some programs and channels have leveraged it to provide an application with synchronized data that augments what the viewer is watching.

In one embodiment a system authenticates a first session for a first application running on a workstation and a second session for a second application running on a second screen device. The system links the first application to the second application when the first session matches the second session. The system receives data indicating the linked first application was changed at the workstation and provides update data to the second application corresponding to the change in the linked workstation application causing a display of the second screen device to update based on the update data.

Similar to many applications typically when enterprise users interface with business intelligence BI for analysis auxiliary information may be provided on a single computer system with one or two displays with some the auxiliary information hidden behind tabs. This arrangement clutters the workstation data view distracting the user s focus while possibly de emphasizing high priority information by placing it alongside secondary information. This arrangement can also hide information in tabs that is actually required viewing for the current screen.

Consequently one embodiment manages a second screen mediation between a workstation computer having local monitors and a portable device to provide BI data to a user. The second screen mediation service links applications running on the workstation computer to the portable device. Once authenticated the workstation computer may initiate a second screen session to transfer linked application information from the workstation computer via second screen mediation to the second screen for viewing and manipulation. Bi directional communication between the workstation computer and portable device may be maintained by a second screen mediation service for keeping linked application information current on each device. For example when a user on a workstation computer edits information the edited information will become available to the second screen device. Thus in one embodiment the workstation screen is de cluttered by moving auxiliary information to a linked and synchronized mobile device application in a second screen application. The workstation screen may be returned to focus on the core of the current task while still benefiting from the immediate availability of enhanced information and activity through the mobile device.

Computer readable media may be any available media that can be accessed by processor and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media and communication media. Communication media may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

Processor is further coupled via bus to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD . A keyboard and a cursor control device such as a computer mouse are further coupled to bus to enable a user to interface with system .

In one embodiment memory stores software modules that provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules include an operating system that provides operating system functionality for system . The modules further include a second screen mediation module that provides and processes second screen data as disclosed in more detail below. System can be part of a larger system such as a database management system or business intelligence platform. Therefore system may include one or more additional functional modules to include the additional functionality. A database is coupled to bus to provide centralized storage for modules and and store one or more data sets to support second screen processing etc. Some embodiments may not include all of the elements in .

One embodiment enables a user to delegate information displayed on a primary device such as a workstation to an independent second device such as a portable or mobile tablet or smart phone. Such information may be maintained and synchronized between the primary device and second device via a mediation service. System of can implement the workstation the second device and or the mediation service.

For example a user may analyze a retail planning workflow where in context business intelligence such as a report would help the user make decisions on ordering via a user order interface. Instead of placing the report on the workstation screen using second screen integration the report may automatically appear on the user s tablet pre loaded with the correct data that relates to the specific vendor and department already entered on the workstation.

In another example a user may create an order on a workstation but then realize that a new item is needed to be created before the order can be completed. Rather than exiting that application to go into another application the user could turn to a tablet computer which has a quick item create workflow available as an option for this workstation screen with the vendor already populated using information from the order entry.

In another example a user could swap screens so that the tablet holds the screen previously on the workstation and vice versa. The user could then bring the tablet to a meeting or other collaboration and have the workstation screens available on the portable device. The user may then log into an a presentation workstation available in the meeting room and use the meeting room workstation as a second screen to the tablet or swap screens back to the meeting room workstation and use that as the primary interface.

Application may provide workflow information on multiple displays or tabs related to making business decisions. In some embodiments application may launch other applications for viewing information such as a document viewer or web browser. In some embodiments application may include locally stored data and functionality for operating independently from a server system and off site data may be available via remote access from a server for example such data including real time data updated data or supporting data. Application may integrate support for a second screen application on a mobile device. In some embodiments application may provide selection buttons to launch or move data displayed in selected tabs to a second screen. In some embodiments application may launch some related data on a linked second screen automatically without any specific selection. In some embodiments application may also offer an option to fully swap the display between a second screen device and workstation .

Enterprise application runs session that connects to server and manages data between workstation and server . Data management provided by session includes managing security for accessing server as well as providing an interface for data transmission and reception to and from server . Session may provide data management for other data sources as well. Session includes navigation and state information for tracking a user s activities and data changes in enterprise application

Session also contains program data to support second screen integration logic and interface. Second screen integration provides an interface to server the interface passes data to and from session and server . Second screen integration also provides a reporting framework at defined points in the application flow such as during login menu actions page loads and field entry. Any changes to application screens navigation security and session may be sent to a mediation service on server for tracking the state of application .

A tablet or portable device runs second screen mobile application and functions as the second screen. Device would typically be a wireless device communicating data over a wireless data network such as a WiFi or cellular based data network. Similar to workstation device may be located inside or outside an organization s network security perimeter and may use VPN or other security options as necessary to communicate with server .

Second screen application is run locally on device . Although second screen application may contain some localized data for operation such as configuration data typically application would not contain data for independent operation. Optionally application may store data locally for offline independent operation. Second screen application includes central mappings of screens and screen events of a linked workstation application mapped to screens on enterprise workstation application . Second screen application includes user interfaces to display data or interaction flows relying primarily on data used by one or more existing enterprise applications e.g. data will typically populate from either a server housing the data or from linked application . In some embodiments once linked to enterprise application second screen application may automatically provide screen display options based on the screen currently being displayed on workstation . For example if enterprise application is an ordering application once linked second screen application may display options for order tracking item entry invoicing and the like. Further these display options may be prepopulated to work within the context from application such as a particular storefront order category and the like. In some embodiments application may also offer an option to fully swap the display between device and workstation .

Second screen application receives event notifications for updates in enterprise application and in turn can launch appropriate data collection and visual rendering modules based on linked session information and the screen mappings. In some embodiments application relies on central security access to provide appropriate user control. For example application may authenticate a user via VPN access as discussed above. Optionally authentication may also include role based control defining which mobile screens map to which workstation screens depending on the defined role assigned to the authenticated user.

Second screen application runs session that connects to server and manages data between device and server . Similar to workstation data management provided by session includes managing security for accessing server as well as providing an interface for data transmission and reception to and from server . Session may provide data management for other data sources as well. Session includes navigation and state information for tracking a user s activities and data changes in second screen application .

Session also contains program data to support second screen integration logic and interface. As described in further detail in the discussion below second screen integration logic provides an interface to server for receiving display commands and data related to application data viewed on workstation . Second screen integration also provides a reporting framework at defined points in the flow of second screen application such as during login menu actions page loads and field entry. Any changes to application screens navigation security and session may be sent to a mediation service on server for tracking the state of application .

Enterprise server provides integrated application programming interface API . Integrated API provides defined programming interfaces into systems located on server . Server provides workflow manager . Workflow manager receives and responds to session data from sessions and . Workflow manager provides the logic in server to process specific requests and provide responses. For example workflow manager may receive a request for reporting data over the last quarter for a business sector. Workflow manager would process the request and provide a formatted response. In a typical use workflow manager also coordinates with application through a Business Process Execution Language BPEL module so that no dependency or financial safeguard issues occur such as Sarbanes Oxley SOX accounting and data requirements.

Server houses enterprise application data which includes data gathered for processing for business intelligence analysis and use e.g. an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system . For example detailed business intelligence data and reports may be used such as those provided by Oracle Retail Business Intelligence from Oracle Corporation. Application data is used by workflow manager to respond to requests from workstation or device .

Server also runs second screen mediation service which provides logic for interacting with workflow manager to provide mediation between enterprise application and second screen application . Mediation service may also store data to support second screen mediation such as second screen state action navigation and data change information for workstation and device . Mediation service may run on an organization s server such as server and be accessible through the organization s network. Enterprise application and second screen application can register with mediation service each time they were instantiated linking workstation and device . Session information such as data entry and navigation can pass bi directionally between the linked enterprise application and second screen application through session mediation service so that both enterprise applications running on workstation and second screen applications running on mobile device are aware of the state of each linked application e.g. where the user is on each linked application and what the user is doing on each application.

Workflow manager and second screen mediation service work together to provide data for the second screen application on device . Workflow manager may provide enterprise application with screen mappings and options for integrating application to second screen device . For example manager may define that for an ordering application second screens may be available for item entry order management order tracking and the like. For a sales forecasting application manager may define that second screens may be available for predictive charts interface elements to adjust predictive baseline assumptions historic prediction versus realization and the like. By linking the screen in workstation with device data from each screen may prepopulate in the second screen or may be used for calculations in the second screen.

In some embodiments notification between enterprise application and second screen application may be accomplished by a push notification by second screen integration module or which can notify mediation service proactively each time a change is made in the state of linked enterprise application or second screen application . Mediation service in turn can notify the non originating device of the change. In some embodiments notification between application and application may be accomplished by a publish and subscribe notification system which would publish changes to mediation service and be noticed by the other linked application or application through a subscription service. Through notification as relevant events occur linked enterprise application or second screen application may be immediately notified. In some embodiments notifications may be immediate and single time only. In some embodiments notification delivery need not be guaranteed or in a controlled sequence and in other embodiments a notification delivery verification may be used to verify a notification was delivered to or picked up by the non originating device. Such verifications may be accomplished using known techniques and may provide a higher degree of reliability for second screen integration. In some embodiments verification of notification may be a configurable setting to enable or disable verification depending on the reliability tolerance of the specific use.

Integrated API supplies interface elements for interfacing with workstation and portable device . Workflow API provides an interface to workflow manager . Session on workstation and session on device may make programming calls to workflow API to store or retrieve data in server . Security API provides an interface to application data related to the implementation of security measures for accessing the data housed in application data and other access to server . For example security API may provide an interface to programming calls made from session on workstation and session on device for authenticating a user such as a username and password. Data API also provides an interface for accessing application data . Through data API using programmatic API calls session on workstation and session on device may access application data . Mediation API provides an interface to mediation service for providing second screen mediation between workstation and portable device . Such information may include information associated with workflows displayed on workstation and corresponding related information displayed on device . For example through mediation API second screen integration and may update the state of enterprise application and second screen application to keep data synchronized between the two devices.

Workstation device and server are each computer systems consistent with the description corresponding to . Thus each of workstation device and server may be implemented via a distributed system. Further multiple workstations devices and servers may be used to provide additional screens for a session.

At a user may log into enterprise application by starting application on workstation . To interact with data on server at a workstation session is started by instituting an exchange with server using one or more of the available APIs. For example a workstation session may begin by authenticating a user by security API . After initiating the workstation session typically a user would begin or continue working on a particular project. The project may have many information screens providing relevant business intelligence available to the user for project tracking design performance history and the like. At second screen integration is started. Application or workflow manager may identify items in the project workflow that may be synchronized to a second screen such as device . At navigation and data context information is sent to a mediation service on server via mediation API . Such information provides the mediation service with information on what is being accessed and displayed on workstation so that second screen integration on device may be cross notified to display related data.

As disclosed embodiments manage second screen mediation between a workstation and a portable or mobile device. Workstations provide applications that support second screens by providing an interface to send and receive second screen data as well as application flow points to send related screen information to the screen of the portable device. Portable devices provide applications that send and receive second screen data and provide the logic for displaying second screen data on the portable device. An enterprise server running a second screen mediation manager may authenticate and link workstation applications to second screen devices and provide state information from one device to the other. Thus an enterprise level second screen information system is provided with security scoped access to business intelligence to a second screen using a second screen mediation manager. The second screen mediation manager can provide in context screen views on a second screen that are related to an application view on a primary screen. Further the second screen mediation manager can cause an automatic update on one screen when the other linked screen is updated by a user.

Several embodiments are specifically illustrated and or described herein. However it will be appreciated that modifications and variations of the disclosed embodiments are covered by the above teachings and within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention.

