---

title: User content access management and control
abstract: User content access management and control are described, including determining, based on a user-defined rule, that a triggering event has occurred, wherein the user-defined rule is associated with an account that belongs to the user, and the user-defined rule comprises an action to be performed based on a triggering event; and performing the action based on the triggering event, wherein the action affects access to the account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350599&OS=09350599&RS=09350599
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09350599
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application is a non provisional of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 664 576 filed Jun. 26 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

The subject matter described herein relates generally to online services and more particularly to user content access management and control of user information residing in computer software.

Online services are becoming more prevalent. Users of very young ages to very old ages are communicating with each other using one or more online services as well as storing information and data online e.g. storing and backing up data sharing images and videos etc. .

After online services are first used however users do not always continue to access the services. For example a user may abandon or stop using one image sharing site and start using another image sharing site. A user may stop using a college focused service after graduation from college. A user may die or be incapacitated and cease accessing online services.

When users stop accessing their online services there is a need to determine what should happen to their accounts and data stored within those services. Some users may not want their accounts and the associated data to be wiped out or deleted after they die for example. A user e.g. User A may share his or her login information i.e. user names and passwords with another user e.g. User B to manage his or her accounts and or data in this instance. However User A may not trust User B enough to hand over login information to all of User A s accounts e.g. User A s image sharing account may include images not meant to be viewed by User B . User B may also turn out to be not as reliable or trustworthy as expected after gaining access to User A s accounts.

One aspect of the present application may include a computer implemented method to enable a user to control access to user information comprising determining based on the user defined rule that a triggering event has occurred wherein the user defined rule is associated with an account that belongs to the user and the user defined rule comprises an action to be performed based on the triggering event and performing the action based on the triggering event wherein the action affects access to the account.

Another aspect of the present application may include a computer implemented method to enable a user to control access to user information comprising receiving a rule from the user having access to an account that contains content of the user wherein the rule defines a first triggering event associated with a first action and a second triggering event associated with a second action performing the first action based on a first determination that the first triggering event has occurred and performing the second action based on a second determination that the first triggering event and the second triggering event have occurred.

Another aspect of the present application may include a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein computer executable instructions for receiving a rule from a user having access to an account that contains content of the user wherein the rule defines a first triggering event associated with a first action and a second triggering event associated with a second action performing the first action based on a first determination that the first triggering event has occurred and performing the second action based on a second determination that the first triggering event and the second triggering event have occurred.

Another aspect of the present application may include at least one computing device comprising storage and at least one processor configured to receive a rule from a user having access to an account that contains content of the user wherein the rule defines a first triggering event associated with a first action and a second triggering event associated with a second action perform the first action based on a first determination that the first triggering event has occurred and perform the second action based on a second determination that the first triggering event and the second triggering event have occurred.

Another aspect of the present application may include a computer implemented method to enable a user to control access to user information comprising maintaining an account the account being accessible by the user and storing a user identifier in storage performing a first determination by a processor that a difference between a current time and a recent user access time of the account exceeds a threshold value performing a second determination by the processor that the stored user identifier matches a third party database entry and performing an action by the processor based on the first determination and the second determination the action comprising at least one of restricting access to the account and determining a status of the user.

Another aspect of the present application may include a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein computer executable instructions for maintaining an account the account being accessible by a user and storing a user identifier in a storage performing a first determination by a processor that a difference between a current time and a recent user access time of the account exceeds a threshold value performing a second determination by the processor that the stored user identifier matches a third party database entry and performing an action by the processor based on the first determination and the second determination the action comprising at least one of restricting access to the account and determining a status of the user.

Another aspect of the present application may include at least one computing device collectively having storage and at least one processor comprising a first determining unit that performs a first determination that a difference between a current time and a recent user access time of an account exceeds a threshold value the account being accessible by a user a second determining unit that performs a second determination that a user identifier stored in the storage matches a third party database entry and an action unit that based on the first determination and the second determination performs an action comprising at least one of restricting access to the account and determining a status of the user.

The subject matter described herein is taught by way of example implementations. Various details have been omitted for the sake of clarity and to avoid obscuring the subject matter. Examples shown below are directed to structures and functions for implementing user content access management and control.

Service providers may detect inactive service accounts and take or perform actions on these accounts. In some example implementations service providers may perform data hygiene and or clean up accounts of for example users who are deceased.

Accounts and or data may be shared or access given to one or more other users. For example a mechanism may be implemented to allow User A to specify that User B is given permission and or ownership to access User A s account and or data under one or more conditions e.g. User A s account has been inactive for a specified period and or User A has died . In some example implementations User A may define different or additional actions to be taken or performed associated with the conditions or triggering events.

In some example implementations a mechanism may be implemented to allow User A to specify that User C is prevented from i.e. not allowed accessing User A s accounts and or data under one or more conditions. User C may or may not have access to User A s accounts when the preventive action is instituted.

In some example implementations users may be given the ability to define a set of rules to manage their accounts and or the associated data or content may collectively be referred to as accounts . For example one or more rules may include one or more triggering events each of which may include one or more associated actions associated with an account.

Example of actions may include but are not limited to account deletion content transfer password resets and the like. For example accounts may be identified for clean up or other actions using epitaphs or eulogies.

A user may specify a set of rules including associated triggering events and or associated actions to indicate how the user s accounts may be managed. The rules may be specified as successive rules i.e. applying rule 1 then rule 2 then rule 3 etc. . For example the user can specify 

With each rule a user can specify a plurality of conditions and actions as well as arrange order in which the conditions and actions may occur. Further a user can also group a plurality of different conditions with a plurality of different actions. In some example implementations a service provider or its system may suggest some common set of rules. A user may use the suggested rules as defaults and or a starting point to customize the user specific rules triggering events and or actions.

A service provider may be any entity that stores user accounts and or data or is likely implementing similar services. For example cloud based service providers e.g. providing computing and or storage may implement at least some of the example implementations described herein to manage service demand or allow users to control their accounts and content.

As used herein the terms account data associated with an account or content associated with an account refer to information and data of or about the user related to or associated with the user generated by or for the user and or for communicating with or providing service to the user. An account and or data or content associated with the account may be associated with a website product service online service or application. The term application includes but is not limited to software e.g. a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions executable by a processor which is online e.g. accessible by communication protocol and structure such as the Internet or other communication network . The application may be embodied in the structure described below with respect to below.

As used herein the term website or web site or site refers to a set of web pages for providing or supporting related services. A website can be hosted on at least one computing device e.g. a system server web server application server client or any label accessible via a network or connection wired and or wireless . A website can be accessed and or supported using at least one top level Uniform Resource Locator URL e.g. abc.gov 123.org zxc.com bestads.com virtualbank.com and the like . A website can be operated and or supported by one or more business entities. For example ZXC Corporation may operate the website zxc.com that includes web pages content and or services from zxc.bestads.com e.g. advertisement services provided by another firm and virtualbank.com zxc payment services e.g. financial services provided by a financial institution .

As used herein the terms product service online service or application refer to any information communication infrastructure organization or the like provided by one or more providers to at least one user. Examples of products services or applications may include but are not limited to forums online platforms bulletin boards social networks websites sites chat rooms email communication image sharing sites data sharing platforms video sharing sites online searching data storage cloud storage software tax preparation and filing online banking online investment management and the like. Products services or applications may be provided on any device ranging from a mobile device e.g. smartphone application or apps to a semi mobile device e.g. a laptop and to a non mobile device e.g. a kiosk . A product service or application may communicate to a provider or another product service or application using a wired or wireless connection.

UI also provides a display or summary of the defined conditions and actions . Specifically in this implementation condition provides that the service provider WXYZ will monitor user sign in of the account and if a sign in does not occur for a specified period of time time out period . Action provides for the service provider WXYZ to notify the user if the account is not signed into during the specified timeout period. Action provides for the service provider WXYZ to notify a different user trusted contacts if service provider WXYZ does not receive a response to the notification in Action . Additionally action also provides for the transfer of account data to the trusted contact. Further action provides for the deletion of the account.

UI includes controls to turn on or off the effects of the settings in UI and an indicator indicating whether the effects of the settings in UI are turned on or off. illustrates the UI in a turned off state. illustrates the UI in a turned on state. Additionally a control to pause application of the rule to for example suspend the operation of the functionality of this example implementation may also be provided in some implementations. UI displays the conditions and actions of the user defined rule that were shown in UI . Additionally UI provides an inactivity section timeout period a warning section Notify me an action section Notify Others and Share Data and a final action sections Delete Account that allow for editing and defining the condition and actions of the defined rule. The UI may also include a reminder control section not shown in shown in . Additionally in some implementations the UI may also provide additional sections or controls such a save control to save the settings of UI and a reset control for example.

Inactivity section includes for example a control for specifying duration e.g. 3 Months from last sign in for a triggering event. In UI the triggering event is implemented as being automatic based on last login by the user. However implementations are not limited to this implementation and one or more other triggering events may be specified or used such as receiving a notification of a change of status from a third party or a predefined code given to or created by the user for triggering purposes etc. A change of status may include for example a report of death or disablement or incarceration from a government agency or from a person having a predefined relationship to the user. Additionally UI may also include a control for defining how an account as inactive.

Warning section includes controls to allow a user to specify one or more manners to receive a warning including email and short message service SMS prior to the expiration of the duration specified by the control . Additionally in some implementations a control may be provided to specify duration from the triggering event for a user to receive a warning e.g. 2 Months before action is taken by the service provider .

Action section includes a control for allowing a user to specify actions to be taken when the duration defined in control from the triggering event has elapsed e.g. 3 months from last sign in . Specifically in this implementation control allows a user to identify contacts known as trusted contacts to be contacted and allowed to transfer or download account data specified by the user using the control . As discussed below the transfer or download of account data can also involve authentication of the trusted user prior to transfer of the data. Additionally control allows a user to prepare a reply to allow the service provider to reply to further communications received by the account. However actions defined by a user are not limited to these example implementations. Other example actions may include but are not limited to sending an SMS sending a voice message locking an account transferring an account and the like. In some example implementations the duration may be used differently. Additionally in some implementations a control for specifying a grace period duration e.g. 2 Weeks which may be implemented from when duration defined in control from the triggering event has elapsed.

Final action section includes a control to allow a user to specify for example one or more additional actions e.g. a Final Action . For example a user may specify that his or her accounts be deleted after the triggered action specified in action section has occurred.

The reminder section could be provided that includes a control to allow a user to specify that the user wants to receive remainder communications emails SMS messages voicemails etc. regarding the settings of UI and UI . The reminder section could also include control to allow a user to specify the frequency of the reminder. In some example implementations UI and UI may include different more or less features than shown i.e. a rule may include different more or less triggering events and or actions .

Various aspects of the implementation have been discussed above with respect to . However implementations of the present application are not limited to the aspects shown in . For example UI illustrates a checklist but other equivalent interfaces as would be understood in the art may be substituted therefor e.g. drop down list or manual text entry field. Here Online Contacts is the specified account data. Additionally the specified person i.e. trusted contact was shown has having an account with the service provider but the specified person e.g. Jane Doe may or may not have an account with the service provider. In some implementations the specified person may be asked to create an account if that is needed in an implementation to access the specified account data.

Additionally in some implementations the user interfaces and may also include includes a visual or graphical timeline. A visual or graphical timeline may show for example the inactivity duration warning duration and action duration visually. In some example implementations a visual timeline may show other indicators e.g. a mark may be shown for each month when a reminder email will be sent to the user . In some example implementations the visual timeline may be a visual indicator that is shown differently e.g. different location size color etc. 

Further in the implementation discussed above the trigger event was a user s signing into the user s account and the durations were measured from the user s last sign in. However alternative triggering events could be used. For example a user may request a service provider to check a third party database for the user e.g. check a database of death certificates . This alternative may be implement by a setting or control provided in UI or UI that if activated cause the service provider to check a third party database to identify the user as inactive. The service provider may check the database on demand on a regular interval or after the inactivity duration of for example six months has elapsed. If the database contains the user s name the user s account is identified as inactive setting off the inactive triggering event to take one or more actions defined in other parts of UI .

Checking of the third party database may be an alternative to or in addition to monitoring the time elapsed since a previous sign in. For example the user may indicate that a third party database will be checked for the status of the user if there has been no log into the account for 6 months. Additionally in some implementations email or some other warning could be sent to the user prior to searching the third party data base or if identifying information is found in the third party database prior to an action being taken by the service provider. For example a user may indicate that an email should be sent two weeks prior to considering an account inactive since the last previous login and checking the third party database or an email could be sent when the identifying information is found in the third party database. Of course any of the features or aspects of the implementations may be combined as would be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art.

If a first triggering condition e.g. defined in the first rule has not occurred at operation wait for that or another triggering condition. If the first triggering condition has occurred at operation take a first action operation . If a second triggering condition e.g. defined in the second rule has occurred at operation take a second action operation . If the second triggering condition has not occurred at operation determine whether a reset action has occurred operation .

A reset action is any action that has canceled or negated a triggering condition. Different triggering conditions have different reset actions. For example a reset action to an inactive triggering condition may be an activity or active condition of an account i.e. a login to an account resets the triggering condition of an inactive period of the account . If the answer at operation is no process flows back to operation . If the answer at operation is yes cancel the first action operation i.e. notifying the user e.g. by email that the triggering condition has been canceled . Process flows back to operation . In some examples process may be implemented with different fewer or more operations. Process may be stored as instructions on a medium loaded onto one or processors of one or more computing devices and executed as a computer implemented method.

A comparison is made to determine whether the calculated difference exceeds a threshold operation . If the answer is no process flows back to operation . If the answer is yes for example the threshold is six months e.g. the inactivity duration specified in UI the difference of six months and one day exceeds the threshold. The stored information identifying the user e.g. including a user identifier is compared with a database operation . The database can be a third party database e.g. prison incarceration records social security death registries obituary databases a death announcement database of a newspaper government death records etc. . If the database contains the user identifier i.e. the stored user identifier matches an entry in the database operation then a pre defined action is taken operation .

Note that the pre defined action is taken based on both determinations at operations and . In some example implementations there may be a waiting period between the first and second determination or between the second determination and taking the pre defined action. The pre defined action may be restricting access to the user account and or determining a status of the user or the account. The pre defined action may be for example an action specified in action section or final action section of UI . If however the answer in operation is no process flows back to operation . In some examples process may be implemented with different fewer or more operations. Process may be stored as instructions on a medium loaded onto one or processors of one or more computing devices and executed as a computer implemented method.

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface may include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader or the like . Output device interface may include a display monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some example implementations input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to computing device e.g. a mobile computing device with buttons or touch screen input user interface and an output or printing display or a television .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or by other labels.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and networks in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions to implement at least one implementation e.g. a described implementation . Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can be originated from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. To implement a described implementation one or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit determination unit s rules triggers management unit action unit and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example determination unit s rules triggers management unit action unit along with one or more other units may implement one or more processes shown in . In some example implementations determination unit s may include two or more separate units. The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example implementations when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit determination unit s rules triggers management unit action unit . For example rules triggers management unit may manage one or more rules each of which may include one or more triggering events and or associated actions. One or more rules triggering events and or actions may be user defined.

Determination unit s may use API unit to retrieve a rule from rules triggers management unit . Determination unit s may determine that a triggering event has occurred and communicate to the action unit . Action unit may use API unit to retrieve a rule and one or more corresponding actions from rules triggers management unit . Action unit may then implement the one or more actions.

In some examples logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit determination unit s rules triggers management unit action unit in order to implement an implementation described above. For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

Although a few example implementations have been shown and described these example implementations are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be embodied in various forms without being limited to the described example implementations. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example implementations without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

