---

title: Method, apparatus, and computer program product for user-directed reporting
abstract: A method, apparatus, and computer program product are recited herein for user-directed reporting. In the context of a method, context information is received, wherein the context information defines the data set from which a natural language text or a graph is to be derived. The method further includes generating a set of messages based on the context information. The method further includes generating, by a processor, a context-specific report based on the set of messages and the relationship between them, wherein the context-specific report is configured to linguistically or visually express at least of messages. A corresponding apparatus and computer program product are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396181&OS=09396181&RS=09396181
owner: Arria Data2Text Limited
number: 09396181
owner_city: Aberdeen
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20130916
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to natural language generation technologies and more particularly relate to a method apparatus and computer program product for generating reports based on context derived from user interaction with an interface.

Natural language generation NLG is sometimes referred to as a subfield of artificial intelligence and computational linguistics that focuses on the production of understandable texts in English or other understandable language. In some examples a natural language generation NLG system is configured to transform raw input data that is expressed in a non linguistic format into a format that can be expressed linguistically such as through the use of natural language e.g. the conversion from data to text . In some cases the data is high frequency numerical data. For example raw input data may take the form of a value of a stock market index over time and as such the raw input data may include data that is suggestive of a time a duration a value and or the like. Other examples may include the generation of textual weather forecasts base on numerical weather prediction data. Therefore an NLG system may be configured to input the raw input data and output text that linguistically describes the value of the stock market index for example securities markets rose steadily through most of the morning before sliding downhill late in the day. Importantly for use in an NLG system data must be analysed and interpreted in a way in which the analysis and interpretation can be linguistically communicated. For example data that indicates the price of a stock market rising may be represent linguistically as rising spiking or the like. A human may then make decisions based on how that human interprets rising versus spiking.

Data that is input into a NLG system may be provided in for example a recurrent formal structure. The recurrent formal structure may comprise a plurality of individual fields and defined relationships between the plurality of individual fields. For example the input data may be contained in a spreadsheet or database presented in a tabulated log message or other defined structure encoded in a knowledge representation such as the resource description framework RDF triples that make up the Semantic Web and or the like. In some examples the data may include numerical content symbolic content or the like. Symbolic content may include but is not limited to alphanumeric and other non numeric character sequences in any character encoding used to represent arbitrary elements of information. In some examples the output of the NLG system is text in a natural language e.g. English Japanese or Swahili but may also be in the form of synthesized speech.

In some example embodiments a computer implemented method is disclosed herein that includes receiving context information generating a set of messages based on the context information and generating by a processor a context specific report based on the set of messages and the relationship between them. In this regard the context specific report may include at least one of natural language text and graphic displays. Additionally or alternatively the context information comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of a subject matter constraint a time constraint and a length constraint. Additionally or alternatively the context information is associated with more than one person. Additionally or alternatively the context information may include abstractions of one or more of the attributes of the data repository. Additionally or alternatively the context information is received via a user interface.

In one embodiment the method includes displaying the context specific report and generating additional messages based on the context information wherein additional reporting data corresponding to the additional messages is viewable based on interaction with the displayed context specific report. In this regard the interaction with the displayed context specific report may include at least one selected from the group consisting of a mouse over of an element of the context specific report and selection of a hyperlinked portion of the context specific report. Moreover the additional reporting data may include a pop out annotation of graphical content additional detail regarding a message in the context specific report preview information corresponding to a message in the context specific report and context sensitive information generated based on a set of information previously presented with the context specific report.

In some example embodiments an apparatus is disclosed herein that includes at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to receive context information generate a set of messages based on the context information and generate a context specific report based on the set of messages and the relationship between them. In this regard the context specific report may include at least one of natural language text and graphic displays. Additionally or alternatively the context information comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of a subject matter constraint a time constraint and a length constraint. Additionally or alternatively the context information is associated with more than one person. Additionally or alternatively the context information may include abstractions of one or more of the attributes of the data repository. Additionally or alternatively the context information is received via a user interface.

In one embodiment the at least one memory and the computer program code are further configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to display the context specific report and generate additional messages based on the context information wherein additional reporting data corresponding to the additional messages is viewable based on interaction with the displayed context specific report. In this regard the interaction with the displayed context specific report may include at least one selected from the group consisting of a mouse over of an element of the context specific report and selection of a hyperlinked portion of the context specific report. Moreover the additional reporting data may include a pop out annotation of graphical content additional detail regarding a message in the context specific report preview information corresponding to a message in the context specific report and context sensitive information generated based on a set of information previously presented with the context specific report.

In some example embodiments a computer program product is disclosed herein that includes at least one computer readable non transitory memory medium having program code instructions stored thereon the program code instructions when executed by an apparatus cause the apparatus to receive context information generate a set of messages based on the context information and generate a context specific report based on the set of messages and the relationship between them. In this regard the context specific report may include at least one of natural language text and graphic displays. Additionally or alternatively the context information comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of a subject matter constraint a time constraint and a length constraint. Additionally or alternatively the context information is associated with more than one person. Additionally or alternatively the context information may include abstractions of one or more of the attributes of the data repository. Additionally or alternatively the context information is received via a user interface.

In one embodiment wherein the program code instructions when executed by the apparatus further causes the apparatus to display the context specific report and generate additional messages based on the context information wherein additional reporting data corresponding to the additional messages is viewable based on interaction with the displayed context specific report. In this regard the interaction with the displayed context specific report may include at least one selected from the group consisting of a mouse over of an element of the context specific report and selection of a hyperlinked portion of the context specific report. Moreover the additional reporting data may include a pop out annotation of graphical content additional detail regarding a message in the context specific report preview information corresponding to a message in the context specific report and context sensitive information generated based on a set of information previously presented with the context specific report.

Example embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments are shown. Indeed the embodiments may take many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. The terms data content information and similar terms may be used interchangeably according to some example embodiments to refer to data capable of being transmitted received operated on and or stored. Moreover the term exemplary as may be used herein is not provided to convey any qualitative assessment but instead merely to convey an illustration of an example. Thus use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.

Natural language generation systems carry the promise of generating understandable and accurate reports based purely upon a set of relevant data without the need for human action. These reports may in some cases be used to understand the real world implications of data that otherwise may not be meaningful to many audiences. In this regard reports generated via NLG systems may be as accurate as those developed by human analysts and in many cases may be generated far more quickly. Accordingly a great deal of efficiency may be realized through the use of NLG systems to develop reports for human consumption provided that the NLG system is able to match the quality of the human analyst.

In this regard for some applications the total volume of data to be analyzed can seem prohibitive and can significantly impact the prescriptive value of a generated report whether the report is generated by a human or by an NLG system. Consider for example the case of financial market reporting. Given the size of the global financial markets documenting every trade of a stock bond commodity or other security can be an enormous task. Gathering meaningful information from such vast quantities of data is often therefore difficult.

Accordingly embodiments of the present invention improve upon existing mechanisms for NLG report generation by enabling a user to specify the focus of any individual report prior to its generation. For instance a user may specify contextual information that defines features upon which to base the report such as by defining the various types of data to include in the report or by identifying a relevant time frame for the report or the like. Additionally or alternatively many other types of user context descriptors e.g. report length interactivity of the report occurrence of graphics versus text in report or the like may be considered in some embodiments of the present invention. By developing each report based on the specific context specified by a user each report can be optimally configured for its intended viewer to thus maximally leverage the value of the underlying data while avoiding the performance of report generation for which there is no user interest.

In some example embodiments the context receiving system may be configured to receive relevant context information from the user via user interface or the like. This interface may define a feature space to organize reports. In the financial market reporting example above there may be features such as asset class currency and time frame. In some embodiments these features may be offered as user choices in the interface for selecting a report. See items and showing selectable fields for specifying asset class currency and timeframe respectively. In this regard the user s selection may be converted by the system into an SQL query or other query used to receive a set of data from a data repository to retrieve the relevant data. However by offering this feature in one embodiment it may be necessary to receive user selection of all such fields in order to display a report.

To be clear the query may retrieve a subset of data e.g. a data set from within a data repository that corresponds to the contextual information received. This data set provides a particular focus of an output text. Accordingly a specific configuration of feature values instructs the system to display the required report. For example receiving the feature values IRD G4 2013 prompts the system to display a report for the interest rate trades in G4 currency for 2013. In some embodiments however if a user does not specify a value for all features that may be queried then a default value is chosen for the unspecified feature. For example receiving the feature values IRD 2013 may prompt the system to display a report for the interest rate trades in all currencies for 2013. The main function of the features in the interface is to enable user selection of a context for a requested report.

In addition to their function in report selection these features also play a role in reducing the set of data required from the underlying data repository. For example the feature values IRD G4 2013 are used as part of the SQL query for retrieving the required data to generate the required report. It is this function of the features that is important from the NLG perspective. In the absence of these features NLG reports may have to be produced for each and every SQL query on the underlying repository the entire data repository may be unrelated to what a user wants etc. which can be very hard and or time consuming. By only generating reports for the combination of context features received from the user interface the system only produces a subset of these reports. As a result the system is able to present the information desired by a user while at the same time avoiding the performance of work that may not be relevant to the user.

In some example embodiments the data analysis system may be operable to analyze data retrieved from the data repository as a result of the query to determine one or more linguistically describable trends occurrences or the like in the data. In some example embodiments the receipt or input of the one or more data feeds may occur in response to a user s choice of context information above which may be indicated in one example by selection of a category of data e.g. types of currency of transactions types of transactions etc. a time frame for which to report or the like. In other words in some example embodiments the context receiving system the data analysis system the referenced user interface module or the like may function as or otherwise embody the context reception system and may operate via user fillable fields in a user interface.

The retrieved data e.g. the raw data may include data such as but not limited to time series data that captures variations across time e.g. profits rainfall amounts temperature or the like spatial data that indicates variation across location e.g. rainfall in different regions or spatial temporal data that combines both time series data and spatial data e.g. rainfall across time in different geographical output areas . The retrieved data may be provided in the form of numeric values for specific parameters across time and space but the raw input data may also contain alphanumeric symbols such as the RDF notation used in the semantic web or as the content of database fields. As is described herein the retrieved data is characterized as one or more data feeds. For example one data feed may be related to the price of a trade for a particular commodity.

In some example embodiments the data analysis system or the user interface module is further configured to determine a main or primary data feed. In some examples a main or primary data feed may be selected based on a selection by a user via the user interface of one or more contextual descriptors such as a specific currency or set of currencies or a specific timeframe within which to analyze the data. In some cases the primary data feed is generally related to for example the raw input data and or data feed relevant to the selected contextual descriptors.

In some example embodiments the data analysis system is configured to detect patterns and trends in the one or more data feeds of the retrieved data or interested related data to provide a set of abstractions e.g. messages . For example a time series dataset may contain tens of thousands of individual records describing the temperature at various time points on a component piece of machinery over the course of a day with a sample once every two or three seconds. Trend analysis may then be used to identify that the temperature changes in a characteristic way throughout certain parts of the day. As such the trend analysis is configured to abstract those changes over time into an abstraction that is representative of the change over time.

In some example embodiments the data analysis system may be configured to fit a piecewise linear model to the data received in the primary data feed related data feed or the like. The fitting of the piecewise linear model may include filtering in some examples. For each trend in the raw input data the data analysis system may determine a start and or end time values qualitative direction e.g. up down steady qualitative stability e.g. stable unstable threshold status e.g. normal high low unknown at start end of trend and or the like . The signal analysis controller may be configured to perform the fitting of the piecewise linear model for one or more time scales for example over a short term e.g. 6 hours if selected via the context reception system . A longer time period e.g. 2 months may also be analyzed if implicated by the user specified context. In some examples the longer time period may ignore equipment off periods and or the like.

The data analysis system may alternatively or additionally then identify trends spikes steps oscillations or other patterns in the data feeds to generate abstractions that summarize the patterns determined in the primary data feed and or the other related data feeds.

In some example embodiments a natural language generation system such as natural language generation system is configured to generate phrases sentences text or the like which may take the form of natural language text. The natural language generation system comprises a document planner a microplanner and or a realizer . Other natural language generation systems may be used in some example embodiments such as a natural language generation pipeline as described in Building Natural Language Generation Systems by Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale Cambridge University Press 2000 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

In some examples natural language generation system may be configured to populate or otherwise instantiate one or more messages based on data or information in the primary data feed the one or more related data feeds the historical data the contextual data feed one or more events and or the like. In some examples messages are language independent data structures that correspond to informational elements in a text and or collect together underling data in such a way that the underlying data can be linguistically expressed. In some examples messages are created based on a requirements analysis as to what is to be communicated for a particular scenario e.g. for a particular domain . A message typically corresponds to a fact about the underlying data for example the existence of some observed event that could be expressed via a simple sentence although it may ultimately be realized by some other linguistic means . For example to linguistically describe wind a user may want to know a speed a direction a time period or the like but also the user wants to know changes in speed over time warm or cold fronts geographic areas and or the like. In some cases users do not even want to know wind speed they simply want an indication of a dangerous wind condition. Thus a message related to wind speed may include fields to be populated by data related to the speed direction time period or the like and may have other fields related to different time points front information or the like. The mere fact that wind exists may be found in the data but to linguistically describe light wind or gusts different data interpretation must be undertaken as is described herein.

In some examples a message is created by the natural language generation system in an instance in which the data in the one or more data feeds warrants the construction of such a message. For example a wind message would only be constructed in an instance in which wind data was present in the raw input data. Alternatively or additionally while messages may correspond directly to observations taken from the raw data input others however may be derived from the observations by means of a process of inference. For example the presence of rain may be indicative of other conditions such as the potential for snow at some temperatures. Alternatively or additionally in some example embodiments the natural language generation system may embody all or portions of the data analysis system .

The concepts and relationships that make up messages may be drawn from an ontology e.g. a domain model that formally represents knowledge about the application scenario. In this regard the domain model may be based on context provided by a user via context receiving system . For example message structures may be defined by the domain model based on a particular context specification and or the raw input data such as but not limited to the primary and or related data feeds. Messages may also be derived from another data structure may otherwise be user defined and or the like. Each type of message may also be represented by a message template which expresses a relationship between instances of a number of concepts the message template contains slots which may be filled in or instantiated using particular values that are derived from the raw input data.

As such the natural language generation system is configured to instantiate a plurality of messages based on the one or more data feeds and may also consider context information received from context receiving system . In order to determine the one or more messages the importance level of each of the messages and relationships between the messages the natural language generation system may be configured to access the domain model directly or indirectly via the data analysis system or the like. The domain model may contain information related to a particular domain or industry and may be altered based on the information received from context receiving system . For instance if a user selects a timeframe beginning on 2010 information occurring prior to the year 2010 may be excluded from consideration and accordingly the domain model may only contain information related to the particular domain or industry that occurs on or after the year 2010. In addition in some examples the domain model may provide importance levels single data feed limits related to normal behaviors in a domain e.g. normal ranges information related to anomalous behaviors and or the like. In other examples the domain model may describe relationships between various events and or phenomena in multiple data feeds. For example in a weather domain a domain model may indicate or otherwise instantiate an extreme weather message in an instance in which wind speeds that are related to hurricane type events or temperatures that may cause harm to humans or other animals or may cause damage or interference to shipping are present in the data. The extreme weather message may then be labeled as important whereas typical temperatures or a typical wind message may not be marked as important in some examples. Alternatively or additionally the domain model may be configured to contain or otherwise have access to the diagnostic model.

In some example embodiments the natural language generation system may be configured to annotate messages with an indication of their relative importance this information can be used in subsequent processing steps or by the natural language generation system to make decisions about which information should be conveyed and which information may be suppressed such as by using the domain model . The natural language generation system may assign an importance level to the one or more messages based on the pattern itself e.g. magnitude duration rate of change or the like defined constraints e.g. defined thresholds constraints or tolerances temporal relationships between the pattern in the primary data feed and patterns in other related data feeds and or the like. For example a heart rate over 170 beats per minute or 100 mile per hour winds may be assigned a high level of importance. In some examples messages that describe other patterns and or constraints may be defined by the domain model . Alternatively or additionally the natural language generation system may also be configured to annotate messages with information about how they are related to each other for example the natural language generation system might indicate that an event described in one message is assumed to have been caused by the event described in another message.

Using the importance level the natural language generation system may assign certain ones of the messages that describe or are otherwise are instantiated with patterns or other data in the primary data feed as including key events. A key event may be selected or otherwise identified based on a pre determined importance level threshold such as a threshold defined by a user a constraint defined by the domain model or the like. Alternatively or additionally key events may be selected or otherwise identified based on those patterns in the primary data feed with the highest level of importance those patterns that exceed or otherwise satisfy the pre determined importance level threshold and or the like. For example a domain model or user preference may indicate that any messages having wind readings over 50 miles per hour may be designated as key events whereas in other examples only a message with highest wind reading over a defined time period may be a determined to include a key event. In further examples the importance level determination may be performed over a plurality of time scales that may be user defined defined by the domain model or the like e.g. one hour one day one week one month and or the like .

In some example embodiments the natural language generation system may also be configured to determine the importance of messages that describe patterns or events detected in one or more secondary or related data feeds. In some examples the natural language generation system may determine one or more messages that describe patterns or events in the related data feeds that overlap time wise or occur within the same time period as the patterns in the primary data feed. For example during the same time period as rain is detected another data feed may detect temperature falling below the freezing point. The natural language generation system may then mark the one or more messages that describe patterns or events in the related channels as important expected unexpected or as having or not having some other property based on the domain model . For example the domain model may suggest that the one or more patterns in the related data feed were expected to rise as they did in the primary channel. By way of example as winds are rising a wave height may then be expected to rise. In other cases the behavior of the one or more related channels may be unexpected or may be anomalous when compared to the behavior of the primary data feed.

The one or more messages may be marked as including significant events based on the importance level domain model constraints user settings or the like. For example messages that include patterns or events in the related data feed that have an importance level above a predetermined threshold defined by the domain model a user or the like and may be marked as including significant events. In some example embodiments messages including unexpected patterns or messages may also be categorized as significant events as they are suggestive of a particular condition or fault. Other messages including patterns or events may be determined to be significant events based on one or more constraints on channel value e.g. expected range of values or the like data anomalies patterns marked as neither expected or unexpected that satisfy an importance level and or the like.

In some example embodiments the natural language generation system may also be configured to determine the importance of messages built or otherwise instantiated using historical data such as historical data background information event data and or the like. For example historical data may contain information related to a previously selected user context and the actions taken or a result. Historical data may also provide indicators of the validity of a user selection and or provide additional information that may provide additional situational awareness.

In further example embodiments the natural language generation system may be configured to generate one or more messages based on determined or otherwise inferred events from the one or more data feeds historical data event data and or the like. Events may include specific activities that may influence the one or more key events and or may have caused the one or more significant events. In some examples the one or more events may be inferred based in context with the one or more patterns in the primary and or related data feeds. Alternatively or additionally events may be provided as a separate channel such as a contextual data feed in the raw input data the event log or may be provided directly to the natural language generation system . Alternatively or additionally one or more messages may be generated based on the contextual data feed.

In some examples the data analysis system the data analysis system or the like may receive a request for a report via a user interface that describes heart rate for a patient between times points and . As a result of a query to a data repository raw input data may be received such as the data in the following table that illustrates a primary data feed e.g. heart rate and a related data feed e.g. respiration rate 

As is demonstrated by the raw input data in the table above heart rate went above 115 beats per minute bpm at time point . Based on the request for heart rate information received from a user via context reception system the primary data feed is the heart rate data feed in some examples. In some example embodiments the data analysis system may abstract or otherwise identify the rapid change of heart rate between time point and time point lasting to time point for use by the natural language generation system .

The data analysis system may also determine whether a secondary or related data feed e.g. respiration rate has a pattern e.g. no change when a change is generally expected in a corresponding time period. In some examples the corresponding time period may be the same time period or may be a later time period when compared to the time period of the key events. Further the corresponding time period may in some examples be defined by a domain model such as domain model . In some example embodiments the data analysis system may abstract or otherwise identify the relatively flat and or steady respiration rate between time point and time point for use by the natural language generation system .

In some example embodiments the natural language generation system is configured to generate one or more messages based on the raw input data in the one or more data feeds. Using the heart rate example a message may include portions of the raw input data to include abstractions of the data but may also include additional distinctions necessary for the generation of text as the raw input data is likely to be insufficient for such a purpose. For example a HeartRateSpike message may be instantiated using the raw input data and such a message may include a time and relative variation in terms of heart rate change or peak heart rate a time period and a direction. In some examples another message may be generated on related channels historic data events and or the like. In some examples the HeartRateSpike message may be related to an Alert Message that contains information relating to the alert itself. For example in an instance in which caffeine was applied prior to the heart rate spike a message may be generated to identify such an event. Such a message may be an Event message that is instantiated with an event time and an event description such as from the event log for example a message that indicates that caffeine had been orally administered prior to the spike in heart rate. Other messages such as RespirationRate e.g. respiration rate stable yes HeartRateAlertHistorical e.g. previous alert condition quantity 2 time yesterday HeartRateHistorical e.g. heart rate trend no change time period 10 days may be instantiated to include information about the related data feeds and or historical data. Alternatively or additionally the natural language generation system the document planner and or the like may be configured to generate the one or more messages.

The document planner is configured to input the one or more messages that are generated and or instantiated by the natural language generation system . The document planner is further configured to determine how to arrange those messages to describe the patterns in the one or more data feeds derived from the raw input data. The document planner may comprise a content determination process that is configured to select the messages.

In some example embodiments a document plan or the content of the document plan may be set as a function of the user input. For example a user input of commodities may have a different document plan when compared with a user input of interest rate swaps. As such based on the focus e.g. user selection the system may define the document plan. Alternatively or additionally a single document plan may be used and populated based on the messages that are created.

The document planner may also comprise a structuring process that determines the order of messages to be included in a natural language text. In some example embodiments the document planner may access one or more text schemas for the purposes of content determination and document structuring. A text schema is a rule set that defines the order in which a number of messages are to be presented in a document. For example an event message e.g. medication injection may be described prior to a key event message e.g. rise in heart rate . In other examples a significant event message e.g. falling respiration rate may be described after but in relation to a key event message e.g. rise in heart rate . By way of further example a document plan may include but is not limited to an AlertMessage a HeartRateSpike message and then a RespirationRate message. An Event message HeartRateAlertHistorical message and HeartRateHistorical message may then follow in the example document plan.

The output of the document planner may be a tree structured object or other data structure that is referred to as a document plan. In an instance in which a tree structured object is chosen for the document plan the leaf nodes of the tree may contain the messages and the intermediate nodes of the tree structure object may be configured to indicate how the subordinate nodes are related e.g. elaboration consequence contrast and or the like to each other. A sample document plan may include but is not limited to document plan of . Document plan may include but is not limited to one or more messages such as message .

In some example embodiments the microplanner is configured to modify a document plan to create a text specification for input into a realizer. As is shown in some examples a document plan may contain one or more leaf nodes that contain messages. An example message may comprise a plurality of slots that contain a named attribute and a value e.g. channel and HeartRate . A message may also comprise slots that contain a named attribute and a set of named attributes and their values. Other messages may include additional named attributes and values.

Initially and in some example embodiments the text specification may include a tree structure that matches or is otherwise structured in the same or similar manner as a document plan tree. In some examples one or more messages may be combined e.g. one or more document plan nodes to form a single phrase specification e.g. to form a single text specification node . Each leaf node of a text specification may include a phrase specification with one or more empty elements. The microplanner may be configured to populate those element values by applying genre parameters lexicalization rules reference rules aggregation rules and the like.

In some example embodiments the microplanner may be configured to input a series of genre parameters that are representative of genre conventions. Genre conventions are rules about the use of language which apply throughout texts in that particular genre. In some examples however the rules may be overridden by a user by lexicalization rules and or the like. The genre conventions specify default behavior for the realizer so that these aspects of language use do not have to continually re specified by a user. Examples of genre parameters include but are not limited to the particular tense e.g. past present or future that should be used consistently throughout the text to be generated a convention on the use of pronouns in the text to be generated and or a convention as to whether or not abbreviated names are to be used in the text to be generated. Alternatively or additionally other elements of the phrase specification may be set by the one or more genre conventions.

Genre conventions may be applied by the microplanner as a first step in the initialization of the phrase specification that corresponds to an individual message. In such a case subsequently applied lexicalization rules may override the results of application of the genre parameters. Alternatively or additionally genre parameters may be applied by the microplanner once all the lexicalization rules have been applied to a given message. In such a case the genre parameters are configured to populate the elements of the phrase specification that have not been specified or otherwise populated by the lexicalization rules. For example a tense equal to past may be set by genre parameter and or a lexicalization rule.

In additional example embodiments one or more lexicalization rules may be input. Lexicalization rules are rules that determine how the content of individual messages may be mapped into phrase specifications. In some examples lexicalization rules may include but are not limited to message level rules that are configured to apply to messages as a whole. Lexicalization rules may also be configured to apply to one or more slots within each message. For example message level rules may specify how the overall form of a phrase is to be constructed from the contents of a message e.g. heart rate is rising falling or staying steady . Slot level rules may specify how specific kinds of entities that are present in a message should be described e.g. heart rate is expressed via a prepositional phrase such as to 118 bpm or otherwise referred to e.g. refer to a machine by its machine ID or full machine title . For example a message level rule may map a name value and high rate value from a message to a phrase specification.

For a given domain there may be at least one message level lexicalization rule for each type of message in the ontology for that domain that may be applied b. The one or more lexicalization rules for a message type define one or more constraints that are configured to test the message itself the discourse model e.g. a model that is configured to store the relevant aspects of the discourse context such as a list of entities mentioned in the text so far and the lexicalization of the previous sentence in a text parameters set by the document planner and or the genre parameters. In an instance in which the one or more lexicalization rules matches the constraints a default lexicalization rule may be defined for each message type and or slot type.

In one example a message level rule may be configured to specify a canned text string to be used whenever a message of the specified type is received as input. For example a GREETING message might result in the simple text string Hello friend . Message level lexicalization rules may also be configured to assign the contents of the slots of a message to particular syntactic constituents e.g. a word or group of words that function as a single unit such as a noun phrase a verb phrase a prepositional phrase or the like within a hierarchical structure in a sentence as represented by a phrase specification. For example a lexicalization rule or the one or more lexicalization rules may be configured to specify the verb to be used to express a particular type of message and slots in the message might be assigned to the subject and object positions in the sentence. In some examples a user may allocate information in the one or more slots of a message to the elements of a phrase specification by using the following non exhaustive list of syntactic constituents subject typically the first position in the sentence verb the main action described in the sentence object typically the position following the verb indirectobject used in those cases where a verb has three arguments as in John gave the cat a bath frontmodifier used to provide information that will be placed at the beginning of the sentence as in yesterday John gave the cat a bath premodifier used to provide information that will be placed immediately in front of the verb as in John reluctantly gave the cat a bath postmodifier used to provide information that will be placed immediately after the object as in John took a bus to the city and or the like. Alternatively or additionally a slot level rule may be configured to specify a canned text string when a slot of a specified type is received and or specify a slot to be mapped to a particular syntactic constituent in a sentence as represented by a phrase specification.

Alternatively or additionally a message level rule may also specify particular syntactic features of the sentence to be generated such as by overriding default values for those features either as provided by the realizer itself or by the genre parameters. Typical features include but are not limited to tense which may be set to PAST PRESENT or FUTURE aspect which may be set to PERFECTIVE or PROGRESSIVE passive which may be set to either TRUE or FALSE negation and or the like. In some example embodiments a slot level rule may specify a particular feature of a sentence to be generated such as by overriding a default value. Alternatively or additionally tense and aspect may be computed such as by using a Reichenbachian model which is based on the time of the message e.g. when the event described by the message happened the time the text is generated and or a reference time. In some examples reference time can be computed using one or more of the following non exhaustive list setting a reference time to the time of the previous message in the text specification setting the reference time as the time of the first message expressed in a current paragraph and or the like.

In some example embodiments the microplanner may also apply slot level rules. Slot level rules may be applied to each slot in each message to enable the slot to be mapped to an element of a phrase specification. In some example embodiments the message level rules described herein may also be expressed as slot level rules allowing recursive embedding. However in some examples the value of the slot itself may be used to fill corresponding element in a phrase specification.

In some examples the microplanner is configured to determine whether two or more phrase specifications can be combined together linguistically to produce a more complex sentence. For example one or more other phrase specifications may be combined with phrase specification to form a more complex sentence. In some examples a reference system is configured to determine how to refer to an entity so that it can be unambiguously identified by the reader. For example in a first sentence John Smith may be used where he or his may be used in subsequent sentences.

Alternatively or additionally a slot level rule may be executed. In such cases the slot level rule may specify how the value of the slot should be described based on the reference rules. Possible reference rules include but are not limited to StringValue indicating that a string value associated with the object should be used to refer to the object NamedEntity indicating that a predefined reference strategy for named entities should be used to refer to the object and may include the choice between a full name or description a reduced form of description or a pronoun on the basis of information about the other entities that have been referred to in the text NumericValue indicating that a predefined strategy for referring to numeric values should be used TimeValue indicates that a predefined reference strategy for referring to time values should be used to refer to the object DurationValue indicating that a predefined reference strategy for referring to durations should be used to refer to the object EnumValue indicating how specific values of an enumerated type should be expressed and or the like.

In some example embodiments the microplanner may also use a slot level rule to specify content for each of a number of syntactic constituents within a linguistic element that is to be realized as a noun phrase. For example the following non exhaustive example list of positions may be available determiner specifier noun modifier premodifier postmodifier and or the like. In some examples a slot level rule may also contain conditions that determine its applicability amongst other things these may be used to determine when the rule should have a null output resulting in the constituent being elided in the sentence being planned.

In some example embodiments the microplanner may also use one or more slot level rules to specify syntactic features. For example a slot level rule may specify the following non exhaustive example list of syntactic features a pronominal e.g. force a use of a pronoun number e.g. singular or plural an indication of definite or indefinite and or the like.

The output of the microplanner in some example embodiments is a tree structured text specification whose leaf nodes are phrase specifications and whose internal nodes express rhetorical relations between the leaf nodes. A tree structured text specification may include but is not limited to text specification of having one or more phrase specifications such as phrase specification . A phrase specification may correspond to a sentence or a sub sentence fragment e.g. a title and are produced from one or more messages. A phrase specification is configured to contain one or more syntactic constituents e.g. subject verb prepositional phrase and or the like and one or more syntactic features e.g. tense .

A realizer is configured to traverse the tree structured text specification to express the tree structured text specification in natural language. The realization process that is applied to each phrase specification in a text specification makes use of a grammar which specifies the valid syntactic structures in the language and further provides a way of mapping from text specifications into the corresponding natural language sentences. The output of the process is in some example embodiments a well formed natural language text. In some examples the natural language text may include embedded mark up. The output of the realizer in some example embodiments an output text. The realizer may also output situational analysis text or a narrative that is configured to describe or otherwise summarize the one or more key events the one or more significant events the one or more contextual data feed s and or the one or more events.

By way of example the realizer may output the following text in response to the text specification e.g. originally based on the user entered context shown above 

Alternatively or additionally the natural language generation system may be configured to generate a graph to display one or more key events that are detected in a data feed. In some example embodiments the graph may also include one or more significant events in one or more related feeds and or events. In further examples a time period or duration of the data shown in the graph may be selected such that the displayed graph illustrates the portion of the data feed that contains the one or more key events. The output graph is further configured to include textual annotations that provide a textual comment phrase or otherwise is configured to explain using text the one or more key events the one or more significant events and or the events in a contextual data feed in natural language. In further examples the textual annotations are generated from the raw input data and further are designed in some examples to textually describe identified patterns anomalies and or the context of the graph. In some examples a narrative e.g. situational analysis text may be included with the graph that provides situational awareness or an overview of the data patterns displayed on and or off of the graph.

In the example embodiment shown computing system comprises a computer memory memory a display one or more processors input output devices e.g. keyboard mouse CRT or LCD display touch screen gesture sensing device and or the like other computer readable media and communications interface . The processor may for example be embodied as various means including one or more microprocessors with accompanying digital signal processor s one or more processor s without an accompanying digital signal processor one or more coprocessors one or more multi core processors one or more controllers processing circuitry one or more computers various other processing elements including integrated circuits such as for example an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or field programmable gate array FPGA or some combination thereof. Accordingly although illustrated in as a single processor in some embodiments the processor comprises a plurality of processors. The plurality of processors may be in operative communication with each other and may be collectively configured to perform one or more functionalities of the user directed reporting system as described herein.

The context reception system the data analysis system and or the natural language generation system are shown residing in memory . The memory may comprise for example transitory and or non transitory memory such as volatile memory non volatile memory or some combination thereof. Although illustrated in as a single memory the memory may comprise a plurality of memories. The plurality of memories may be embodied on a single computing device or may be distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the context sensitive report system. In various example embodiments the memory may comprise for example a hard disk random access memory cache memory flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc read only memory DVD ROM an optical disc circuitry configured to store information or some combination thereof.

In other embodiments some portion of the contents some or all of the components of the context reception system the data analysis system and or the natural language generation system may be stored on and or transmitted over the other computer readable media . The components of the context reception system the data analysis system and or the natural language generation system preferably execute on one or more processors and are configured to generate context relevant reports as described herein.

Alternatively or additionally other code or programs e.g. an administrative interface a Web server and the like and potentially other data repositories such as data repository also reside in the memory and preferably execute on one or more processors . Of note one or more of the components in may not be present in any specific implementation. For example some embodiments may not provide other computer readable media or a display .

The context reception system the data analysis system and or the natural language generation system are further configured to provide functions such as those described with reference to . The context reception system the data analysis system and or the natural language generation system may interact with the network via the communications interface with remote data sources alert systems e.g. remote reference data remote performance data remote aggregation data remote alert systems and or the like third party content providers and or client devices . The network may be any combination of media e.g. twisted pair coaxial fiber optic radio frequency hardware e.g. routers switches repeaters transceivers and protocols e.g. TCP IP UDP Ethernet Wi Fi WiMAX Bluetooth that facilitate communication between remotely situated humans and or devices. In some instance the network may take the form of the internet or may be embodied by a cellular network such as an LTE based network. In this regard the communications interface may be capable of operating with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types access types and or the like. The client devices include desktop computing systems notebook computers mobile phones smart phones personal digital assistants tablets and or the like.

In an example embodiment components modules of the context reception system the data analysis system and or the natural language generation system are implemented using standard programming techniques. For example the context reception system the data analysis system and or the natural language generation system may be implemented as a native executable running on the processor along with one or more static or dynamic libraries. In other embodiments the context reception system the data analysis system and or the natural language generation system may be implemented as instructions processed by a virtual machine that executes as one of the other programs . In general a range of programming languages known in the art may be employed for implementing such example embodiments including representative implementations of various programming language paradigms including but not limited to object oriented e.g. Java C C Visual Basic.NET Smalltalk and the like functional e.g. ML Lisp Scheme and the like procedural e.g. C Pascal Ada Modula and the like scripting e.g. Perl Ruby Python JavaScript VBScript and the like and declarative e.g. SQL Prolog and the like .

The embodiments described above may also use synchronous or asynchronous client server computing techniques. Also the various components may be implemented using more monolithic programming techniques for example as an executable running on a single processor computer system or alternatively decomposed using a variety of structuring techniques including but not limited to multiprogramming multithreading client server or peer to peer running on one or more computer systems each having one or more processors. Some embodiments may execute concurrently and asynchronously and communicate using message passing techniques. Equivalent synchronous embodiments are also supported. Also other functions could be implemented and or performed by each component module and in different orders and by different components modules yet still achieve the described functions.

In addition programming interfaces to the data stored as part of the context reception system the data analysis system and or the natural language generation system such as by using one or more application programming interfaces can be made available by mechanisms such as through application programming interfaces API e.g. C C C and Java libraries for accessing files databases or other data repositories through scripting languages such as XML or through Web servers FTP servers or other types of servers providing access to stored data. The raw input data historical data the domain model and or the event log may be implemented as one or more database systems file systems or any other technique for storing such information or any combination of the above including implementations using distributed computing techniques. Alternatively or additionally the raw input data historical data the domain model and or the event log may be local data stores but may also be configured to access data from the remote data sources alert systems .

Different configurations and locations of programs and data are contemplated for use with techniques described herein. A variety of distributed computing techniques are appropriate for implementing the components of the illustrated embodiments in a distributed manner including but not limited to TCP IP sockets RPC RMI HTTP Web Services XML RPC JAX RPC SOAP and the like . Other variations are possible. Also other functionality could be provided by each component module or existing functionality could be distributed amongst the components modules in different ways yet still achieve the functions described herein.

Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the components of the context reception system the data analysis system and or the natural language generation system may be implemented or provided in other manners such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs and the like. Some or all of the system components and or data structures may also be stored as contents e.g. as executable or other machine readable software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium so as to enable or configure the computer readable medium and or one or more associated computing systems or devices to execute or otherwise use or provide the contents to perform at least some of the described techniques. Some or all of the system components and data structures may also be stored as data signals e.g. by being encoded as part of a carrier wave or included as part of an analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums which are then transmitted including across wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart support combinations of means for performing the specified functions and combinations of operations for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowcharts and combinations of blocks in the flowchart can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In some example embodiments certain ones of the operations herein may be modified or further amplified as described below. Moreover in some embodiments additional optional operations may also be included. It should be appreciated that each of the modifications optional additions or amplifications described herein may be included with the operations herein either alone or in combination with any others among the features described herein.

As is shown in operation the apparatus may include means such as the data analysis system the data analyzer the data interpreter the natural language generation system the processor or the like for generating a context specific report based on the set of messages and the relationship between them wherein the context specific report is configured to linguistically or visually express at least a portion of the messages. In this regard the context specific report includes at least one of natural language text and graphic displays. Moreover the generation of the display may be based in part upon the amount of visual real estate available. For instance in an instance in which there is not much space to display the report the report itself may be generalized to a higher level in which case additional information may be viewable by navigating through a number of displayable windows graphics mouse over tool tip displays or the like. Alternatively a breadcrumb style sequence of hyperlinks may be presented corresponding to nodes in a path so that the user can move forwards and backwards in a series of displays intuitively. Similarly graphics may be presented as part of the report and moreover the graphics upon mouse over by the user may display a pop up window with annotated with a detailed sub report corresponding to the mouse over portion of the graphic. Finally in some embodiments the report may include context sensitive dynamic document generation in which case the user s specific actions navigating through various interfaces provide additional context using which the language of future documents are presented. For example a sub report might omit common information that appeared on a previously seen sub report or the text might even relate the current report to a previously seen sub report.

As is shown in operation the apparatus may include means such as the display user interface module or the like for displaying the context specific report.

As is shown in operation the apparatus may include means such as the data analysis system the data analyzer the data interpreter the natural language generation system the processor or the like for generating additional messages based on the context information wherein additional reporting data corresponding to the additional messages is viewable based on interaction with the displayed context specific report. In this regard the interaction with the displayed context specific report comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of a mouse over of an element of the context specific report and selection of a hyperlinked portion of the context specific report. Moreover the additional reporting data comprises a pop out annotation of graphical content additional detail regarding a message in the context specific report preview information corresponding to a message in the context specific report and context sensitive information generated based on a set of information previously presented with the context specific report.

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the natural language generation system the processor or the like for identifying one or more messages to be hyperlinked in an output report wherein the one or more messages are data structures that are configured to linguistically describe at least a portion of raw input data. In some example embodiments one or more messages may be identified or otherwise be predefined to define or otherwise include information that indicates the one or more messages that are to be interactive e.g. a flag an indicator bit or the like when realized. Those messages that are marked as interactive will be those messages that are hyperlinked in the output text in some examples. Alternatively or additionally the document planner may define one or more messages to be interactive messages. In some examples the document planner may identify an entire paragraph as being interactive.

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the natural language generation system the processor or the like for determining one or more interactive responses based on the one or more messages to be hyperlinked. In some examples the messages may indicate an interactive response. In some examples the document plan may further define the resultant action when one or more hyperlinks are selected. In other words the document plan may define e.g. messages to be included in the interactive response the arrangement thereof the communicative goal of a particular message and therefore define an interactive response. Alternatively or additionally the interactive response may be defined by a user by a microplanner may be defined in the domain model or the like.

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the natural language generation system the processor or the like for determining one or more words in a phrase specification that are related to the one or more messages to be hyperlinked. In some examples the one or more words that are related to the one or more messages are determined by hyperlinking the entire sentence in an instance in which a single message is to be realized into a single sentence and or hyperlinking at least one of a noun phrase verb phrase or sentence constituent related to a message that is to be hyperlinked based on at least one of lexicalization rules aggregation rules or a referring expression generator.

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the natural language generation system the processor or the like for generating the output report wherein the one or more words are hyperlinked in the output report such that when selected at least one of the one or more interactive responses is performed. In some examples once realized the report may be shown a screen via a user interface. The user interface may provide for a hyperlink in the form of an underline box or the like. The hyperlink may be selectable in some example embodiments and may generate the interactive response such as another text graph or the like. Alternatively or additionally the hyperlink may provide a menu of potential responses in response to a click thus prompting the user to determine whether a graph or text is desired. In some examples the interactive response is dynamically generated based on the user s selection whereas in other examples it may be generated but not displayed at the same time as the initial report. In some cases the text may be generated and displayed in the case of a mouse over.

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the natural language generation system the processor or the like for generating an interactive response using a context sensitive report in response to a selection of a hyperlink. In some examples the determined interactive response is a graph. As such the apparatus may include means such as the natural language generation system the processor or the like for detecting one or more patterns in a data channel derived from raw input data identifying one or more patterns in another data channel also derived from the raw input data generating one or more phrases describing the one or more patterns in the data channel and the one or more patterns in the another data channel and generating a graphical output based on the data channel the another data channel and the one or more phrases wherein the one or more phrases are interactively annotated on the graphical output of the data channel and the another data channel.

Alternatively or additionally in an instance in which the determined interactive response is another report the apparatus may include means such as the natural language generation system the processor or the like for determining the document plan for the another report based on a document plan for the output report and the communicative goal of the sentence containing the hyperlink and generating the another output report using an context sensitive report.

In some examples the output report or another output report an interactive response or the like is generated based on the current context or other context of the user reader or the like. For example one or more messages can be marked as viewed by a user and those messages transformed into phrase specifications that are realized and have been previously viewed will not be displayed in a future report. In other examples certain data channels over certain periods may be marked as viewed. As such in instances in which an interactive response or another report is dynamically generated such an output may be given in context and may have a reduced amount of information when compared to the amount of information originally in a document plan for the interactive response or another output report.

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the natural language generation system the processor or the like for determining one or more key patterns in a primary data channel. In some example embodiments the key patterns may be determined based on the time period of the alarm condition however in other examples a larger or smaller time period may be selected.

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as the natural language generation system the processor or the like for determining one or more significant patterns in one or more related data channels. In some example embodiments the apparatus may determine one or related channels based on one or more predefined relationships. In some examples the predefined relationships may be defined by the domain model .

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as natural language generation system the processor or the like for determining one or more contextual channels to be included in the graphical output. The one or more contextual channels may provide events or other context that may be indicative of the cause of the one or more key patterns and or the one or more significant patterns. As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as natural language generation system the processor or the like for determining a time period to be represented by the graphical output. In some example embodiments the time period chosen for the graph is the time period in which the one or more key patterns are displayed. As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as natural language generation system the processor or the like for generating a natural language annotation of at least one of the one or more key patterns or the one or more significant patterns.

As is shown in operation an apparatus may include means such as natural language generation system the processor a user interface or the like for generating a graphical output that is configured to be displayed in a user interface. In some example embodiments the graph is configured to utilize the determined scale to display the primary data channel one or more related channels having significant events natural language annotations a narrative events and or the like. In some example embodiments and in an instance in which a user clicks on a text annotation in the graph a corresponding phrase in the situation analysis text may be highlighted and or in an instance in which a user clicks on underlined phrase in the narrative or situation analysis text a corresponding annotation may be highlighted on the graph.

In some example embodiments described herein the apparatus a graph may be generated e.g. as an output report output text interactive report another report or the like having a scale e.g. amplitude y axis and or time scale x axis that advantageously displays one or more data channels e.g. a first or primary data channel a secondary or related data channel and or the like that are derived from raw input data one or more natural language text annotations and or a narrative describing raw input data. As such advantageously a user viewing the graph in a user interface or using other viewing means may be provided with situational awareness with regard to the patterns shown on the graph as well as the events and or patterns that may have influenced the patterns shown on the graph.

In some examples a first or primary data channel may be selected for inclusion in a graph based on a selection by a user via a user interface may be selected based on the happening of a condition such as but not limited to an alert an alarm an anomaly a violation of a constraint a warning a predetermined condition selection of a hyperlink based on an indication that the primary data channel is related to the communicative goal and or the like.

In some example embodiments a secondary or related data channel may also be selected. In some cases there may be a plurality of secondary or related data channels. The secondary or related data channel may be selected for inclusion in a graph based on the detection of anomalous unexpected or otherwise flagged behavior in the second or related channel. In some examples the second or related channel is compared to one or more patterns in the primary data channel over a similar time period. For example a first data channel may indicate a rise in heart rate whereas a second data channel may indicate a stable or even a decline in respiration rate. Generally respiration rate rises with heart rate and as such a stable respiration rate is generally unexpected. In some examples unexpected behavior may lead to a life threatening condition be indicative of a dangerous condition or the like.

Relationships between data channels may be defined as anomalous behavior by a qualitative model such as a domain model. A domain model is a representation of information about the domain. For example a domain model may contain an ontology that specifies the kinds of objects and concepts and the like that may exist in the domain in concrete or abstract form properties that may be predicated of the objects and concepts and the like relationships that may hold between the objects concepts and the like and representations of any specific knowledge that is required to function in the domain. In some example multiple domain models may be provided for a single domain. Example domains may include but are not limited to medical oil and gas industrial weather legal financial and or the like. Alternatively or additionally a plurality of related channels may be included for example pulse rate oxygen levels blood pressure and or the like.

In some examples patterns e.g. a trend spike step or the like may be detected or otherwise identified in the primary data channel and or in the one or more secondary data channels. Once a pattern is detected in the primary data channel and or the one or more secondary data channels an importance level or importance is assigned to each of the patterns. In the primary data channel an importance level may be defined based on thresholds constraints predefined conditions or the like. In the secondary data channels an importance level may also be assigned based on thresholds constraints predefined conditions or the like however an importance level may also be assigned based on the relationship between the secondary data channels and the primary data channels and or the relationships between the patterns detected in the primary data channels and the patterns detected in the secondary data channels. A pattern in the primary channel may be defined as a key pattern in an instance in which the importance level of the pattern exceeds or otherwise satisfies a predefined importance level. Likewise a significant pattern is a pattern in a secondary data channel that exceeds or otherwise satisfies a predefined importance level. In some examples a pattern in the one or more secondary channels may also be classified as a significant pattern if it represents an anomaly or otherwise unexpected behavior when compared with the primary data channel.

In some example embodiments a contextual channel may also be selected. A contextual channel is a data channel that provides a background or circumstance information that may have caused or otherwise influenced the one or more key patterns and or the one or more significant patterns e.g. proximate cause . For example a contextual channel may indicate an event such as a medical treatment that was applied at the time of or just prior to the rise of the heartbeat and or the fall or steady state of the respiration rate. Alternatively or additionally a plurality of data channels may also be selected for inclusion in a graph based on an anomaly or unexpected behavior.

Alternatively or additionally one or more data channels may be selected for inclusion in a graph even though the one or more data channels are representative of expected behavior. For example in the medical domain a medical professional may expect to see both heart rate and respiration rate on a graph even if both are behaving in expected ways since expected behavior may be indicative of an important result namely a clean bill of health. As such a selection of a hyperlink relating to heart rate would provide a graph of both heart rate and respiration. In some cases based on the current context e.g. whether the professional has seen a graph of respiration already the respiration rate may be omitted.

In yet further example embodiments events may also be generated for display in the graph. An event may be described in a contextual channel may be entered into an event log that is input with the raw input data or may be inferred. For example caffeine administration may be entered as an explicit event in a patient record e.g. in an event log the caffeine could be detected by a change in one or data channels which record what medication is being administered through an IV line and or the caffeine administration may be inferred based on a spike in heart rate. In instances in which an event is identified that satisfies an importance threshold the event may be displayed as a visual annotation. In an example in which a graph is displayed events may be displayed as a vertical line. Alternatively or additionally events may be generated as a horizontal line with indicators showing the multiple occurrences of an event and or the like. In other visualizations events may be displayed via text indicator or other visual outputs.

In some example embodiments a scale may be selected for the graph based on the primary data channel the secondary data channel or the like. The scale may be determined based on a time period or duration in which a pattern that satisfies an importance threshold is identified anomalous behavior occurs in a related data channel and or the like. Alternatively or additionally the time period may be set by a user may be a time period that is significant or specifically identified on the basis of properties of the domain communicative goal current context or the like. In some examples if the user has already seen a graph of rate of a time period a selection of an event may only result in a graph of a heart rate surrounding the time of the event.

In further example embodiments textual annotations and or a narrative may be included with the graph. The textual annotations and or the narrative may be provided by a natural language generation system such as natural language generation system that is configured to generate one or more textual annotations in the form of sentences or phrases that describe the patterns in the data channels expected or unexpected behavior an event a contextual channel and or the like. Additionally in some examples the sentences or phrases may take the form of stand alone text that provides situational awareness and or situational analysis of the graph. In some examples situation analysis text may be configured to include pattern descriptions that contribute to narrative coherence background information or the like. The textual annotations may be located on the graph such as at the location where the anomalies and or the patterns are represented in the graph. Alternatively or additionally the narrative may be displayed on or near the graph in some examples. Whereas in other examples the narrative may be contained in a separate file may be generated before after or otherwise separately from the generation of the graph or may be a separate interactive response. In some examples annotations may be shown as a preview. For example as a user is moving their cursor across the graph an interactive response may include a text box that elaborates on a particular point on the graph. Alternatively or additionally the textual annotations and or narrative may be provided via speech or other available modalities.

Based on the one or more channels derived from the raw input data the contextual channel and or the annotations the graph may be generated for display. The graph is configured to display a time scale that contains those identified sections e.g. key patterns and or significant patterns in the one or more data channels the textual annotations additional available visual annotations and or the like. In some example embodiments user interaction with the narrative text may result in an annotation on the graphical output to be highlighted. Similarly selection of an annotation may highlight narrative text related to the annotation. Alternatively or additionally the annotations may include a symbol or other reference numeral that is indicative of or otherwise related to the narrative. For example the narrative may indicate that a first key pattern is indicated by an arrow a circle a box a reference number or the like in the graph.

In some examples the systems and methods as described herein may be used for informative purposes may provide guidance as to market trends to enable buying decisions or the like. However in some examples the systems and methods described herein may be used for compliance such as for the compliance of a bank with certain regulations. For example the systems and methods may include a user interface that enables compliance committee members to view data relating to particular trading proposed trades or the like so that they may understand the data at a level in which they can determine compliance.

In some examples such a system may generate the context reports based on a regulation. For example the trade timeline and type may be defined by the type of sign off requested. Once the reports are generated such as using the techniques of the member may review the reports in the user interface to determine compliance. Once compliance is determined the necessary sign offs may be received from the member in the user interface. The user interface may then be used to track and automate the sign off and review process. Thus using focused natural language texts and an interactive text generation environment companies may advantageously improve their compliance procedures. Other collaborative compliance tools may be envisioned based on the description herein.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

