---

title: RC extraction for multiple patterning layout design
abstract: Among other things, one or more systems and techniques for width bias adjustment for a design layout are provided. During fabrication, characteristics of a component can change, such as size, width, position, etc., from how a design layout represents such components. Accordingly, a width bias table is used to identify a width bias value that can be applied between a first polygon and a second polygon to compensate for a characteristic change associated with at least one of the first polygon and the second polygon during fabrication. The width bias value is used during RC extraction to determine an electrical characteristic adjustment, such as an additional capacitance or resistance associated with the width bias value, for at least one of the first polygon and the second polygon. In this way, RC extraction, during a design phase, can take into account electrical characteristic changes that occur during fabrication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08904314&OS=08904314&RS=08904314
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 08904314
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20130918
---
Electronic design tools allow designers to layout simulate and analyze electrical components such as integrated circuits. In an example a schematic designer creates a schematic diagram of an integrated circuit. The schematic diagram comprises symbols that represent components of the integrated circuit. However the schematic diagram does not represent a physical layout of the integrated circuit. A layout designer creates a design layout of the integrated circuit using the schematic diagram. The design layout comprises one or more polygons representing metal silicon or other components or portions thereof. During fabrication of the integrated circuit physical characteristics of components such as size shape position or electrical properties can differ than how the design layout represented such components. In an example first mask is used to form a first set of metal components and a second mask is used to form a second set of metal components. During fabrication a spacer structure is used around the first mask to separate the first mask from the second mask. The spacer structure can partially block or cut off formation of a metal component formed by the second mask based upon the spacer structure overlapping a corresponding portion of the second mask thus resulting in a change to the size and shape of the metal component. The change in size and shape can change operational characteristics of the integrated circuit not accounted for in the design layout.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A method of width bias adjustment for a design layout is illustrated in . At a design layout of an integrated circuit is received. The design layout comprises one or more polygons representing components of the integrated circuit or portions thereof such as a metal structure or line. In an embodiment the design layout corresponds to a multiple pattern layout such as a double patterning layout or a triple patterning layout. At a first polygon having a first mask assignment within the design layout is identified. At a second polygon having a second mask assignment within the design layout is identified. In an embodiment the first mask assignment assigns the first polygon to first pattern mask that will be used during fabrication to form the first polygon. In an embodiment the second mask assignment assigns the second polygon to the first pattern mask. In an embodiment the second mask assignment assigns the second polygon to a second pattern mask different than the first pattern mask. In an embodiment the second polygon is identified based upon a neighboring relationship with respect to the first polygon such as a direct neighbor relationship where the second polygon is directly adjacent to the first polygon e.g. first polygon is directly adjacent to second polygon of or an in direct neighbor relationship where the second polygon is positioned relative to the first polygon e.g. third polygon is an indirect neighbor of first polygon of .

At a width bias table is identified based upon the first mask assignment and the second mask assignment. In an embodiment a plurality of width bias tables are defined for pattern mask pairings such as a first width bias table for a pattern mask A paired with a pattern mask B a second width bias table for the pattern mask B paired the pattern mask A a third width bias table for the pattern mask A paired with the pattern mask A etc. e.g. width bias tables of . In an embodiment the first width bias table corresponds to where pattern mask A is a victim mask and pattern mask B is an aggressor mask such that during fabrication the pattern mask B such as a spacer structure around pattern mask B partially blocks or cuts off formation of a polygon by pattern mask A . The spacer structure associated with the aggressor mask can modify a characteristic of the first polygon such as a shape or size. In an embodiment the second width bias table correspond to where pattern mask B is a victim mask and pattern mask A is an aggressor mask such that during fabrication pattern mask A partially blocks or cuts off formation of a polygon by pattern mask B . In this way the width bias table is identified based upon whether at least one of the first mask assignment or the second mask assignment corresponds to an aggressor mask or a victim mask.

At the width bias table is queried using a first width between the first polygon and the second polygon to determine a width bias value. The width bias table comprises width bias values that are indexed based upon widths between polygons. In an embodiment the width bias values are indexed based upon polygon sizes such as a width of a polygon. A query is formulated based upon the first width a polygon size associated with at least one of the first polygon or the second polygon. The query is executed against the width bias table to identify the width bias value. The width bias value corresponds to a difference is width specified by the design layout and a physical width of the fabricated integrated circuit. That is the design layout various layout characters for the first polygon and the second polygon such as a width between the first polygon and the second polygon a width of the first polygon a length of the first polygon a shape of the first polygon etc. However during fabrication of the integrated circuit various characteristics of the first polygon can change such as the width between the first polygon and the second polygon due to a spacer structure used during fabrication to separate patterning masks. The change in width can result in different electrical characteristics for components formed by the first polygon and the second polygon such as a capacitance or resistance of a metal line formed by the first polygon. At the width bias value is applied to the design layout such as during design time to model the change in characteristics to the first polygon or the second polygon during fabrication. In an embodiment an electrical characteristic adjustment for the first polygon is determined based upon the width bias value such as a resistance value of a capacitance value introduced by the change in width between the first polygon and the second polygon during fabrication. The electrical characteristic adjustment is taken into account during an RC extraction stage for the design layout.

A method of width bias adjustment for a design layout is illustrated in . A designer can create a design layout for an integrated circuit represented by a schematic diagram using a design layout interface e.g. . Components of the integrated circuit such as metal lines are represented in the design layout as polygons. During fabrication of the integrated circuit characteristics of a component can change from how the design layout represents corresponding polygons. Accordingly such changes are modeled and taken into account during design time to accurately reflect changes in resistance capacitance or other characteristics affected during fabrication. At a selection of a first polygon have a first mask assignment is received. At a second polygon having a neighboring relationship such as a direct or indirect neighbor with the first polygon is identified. At a width bias adjustment user interface is exposed through the design layout interface. The width bias adjustment user interface comprises a width bias table corresponding to the first mask assignment and the second mask assignment. At responsive to receiving a selection of a width bias value from the width bias table the width bias value is applied to the design layout. In an embodiment an electrical characteristic adjustment for the first polygon is determined based upon the width bias value and is taken into account during an RC extraction stage of the design layout.

The system comprises a width bias component associated with one or more width bias tables such as a first width bias table for a pattern mask A to pattern mask B pairing e.g. where pattern mask A is a victim mask and pattern mask B is an aggressor mask that can partially block or cut off formation of the first polygon by the pattern mask A during fabrication a second width bias table for a pattern mask A to pattern mask A pairing a third width bias table for a pattern mask B to pattern mask A pairing e.g. where pattern mask B is a victim mask and pattern mask A is an aggressor mask that can partially block or cut off formation of the second polygon by the pattern mask B during fabrication and a fourth width bias table for a pattern mask B to pattern mask B pairing.

The width bias component identified the first polygon and the second polygon . The width bias component identifies the first width bias table based upon the first mask assignment of the first polygon and the second mask assignment of the second polygon . The width bias component queries the first width bias table using a width between the first polygon and the second polygon to identify a width bias value. The width bias value is applied to the design layout to adjust for changes to characteristics of the first polygon during fabrication thus resulting in biased design layout .

The system comprises an adjustment component configured to determine an electrical characteristic adjustment for the first polygon based upon the width bias value. The adjustment component takes the electrical characteristic adjustment into account during an RC extraction stage for the design layout resulting in RC extraction data that takes into account changes to the first polygon during fabrication such as a modified to a shape or size of the first polygon from a spacer structure associated with the pattern mask B .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for width bias adjustment for a design layout is provided. The method comprises receiving a design layout of an integrated circuit. A first polygon having a first mask assignment is identified within the design layout. A second polygon having a second mask assignment is identified within the design layout. A width bias table is identified based upon the first mask assignment and the second mask assignment. The width bias table is queried using a first width between the first polygon and the second polygon to determine a width bias value. The width bias value is applied to the design layout.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for width bias adjustment for a design layout is provided. The system comprises a width bias component configured to receiving a design layout for an integrated circuit. The width bias component identifies a first polygon having a first mask assignment within the design layout. The width bias component identifies a second polygon having a second mask assignment within the design layout. The width bias component identifies a width bias table based upon the first mask assignment and the second mask assignment. The width bias component queries the width bias table using a first width between the first polygon and the second polygon to determine a width bias value. The width bias value is applied to the design layout.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for width bias adjustment for a design layout is provided. The method comprises receiving a selection of a first polygon within a design layout of an integrated circuit. The first polygon has a first mask assignment. A second polygon having a neighboring relationship with the first polygon is identified. The second polygon has a second mask assignment. A width bias adjustment user interface comprising a width bias table corresponding to the first mask assignment and the second mask assignment is exposed. Responsive to selection of a width bias value from the width bias table the width bias value is applied to the design layout.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally to be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

