---

title: Method for uniform network access
abstract: According to some embodiments, a registry is displayed. The registry may, for example, indicate resources available from a plurality of remote network access devices via a communications network. Moreover, a personal network address May be associated with each available resource, the personal network address including an destination address portion and an application program identifier portion. A direct communications link may then be established between a first network access device hosting an available resource and a second network address device using the personal network address associated with the resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09026660&OS=09026660&RS=09026660
owner: Peer Communications Corporation
number: 09026660
owner_city: Newport Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131211
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 592 168 filed on Aug. 22 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 252 837 filed on Oct. 4 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 260 920 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 102 699 filed May 6 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 037 125 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 661 483 filed Mar. 17 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 941 540 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 173 856 filed Jun. 30 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 860 921 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 361 920 filed Feb. 10 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 961 748 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 310 411 filed May 12 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 519 625 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 105 858 filed Oct. 27 1998. The entire contents of each of the above applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Communications networks including the Internet have been used to access resources located on various network access devices. Typically a user may transfer data files including text application files voice and video with electronic network access devices. As the size and complexity of available communications networks has increased methods of conveniently transferring data across various software platforms have been sought.

In order to deliver a message to an agent via an electronic communications network it is necessary to address the computer and the application software accessed by the agent. Typically an Internet Protocol IP address is used to identify the computer. Application software is commonly addressed to a port number on the computer. A computer may have thousands of ports available. Each port can connect to only one application. However an application may connect to multiple ports. A combination of the IP address and port number allows a message to be delivered properly to a designated application program. In this way an Internet message is first delivered to an IP address associated with a computer and then delivered to the specific port on the computer running application software associated with the message.

Fixed IP addresses are not widely available to independent users. It is common for domestic and small business users to access a network such as the Internet via an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISPs can act as a redirecting service and assign a temporary IP address to a computer contacting the service provider. The temporary IP address is used by that computer during one contiguous computing session. When a computing session ends the ISP or other re directing service makes a previously allocated computer address available to a subsequent request to initiate an Internet computing session. An address is consistent for a user during any continuous computing session.

Similarly port numbers are not commonly allocated on a fixed basis. On a shared processor such as a mainframe shared port numbers are allocated to application programs as various users invoke the applications. On single user machines such as PCs all port numbers are available to a user. However multiple instances of an application program may be enabled for concurrent execution. Each instance must be assigned a unique port Ports are therefore assigned on an as requested basis.

Due to the allocation and re allocation of IP addresses and port numbers with each new computing session it is difficult for a user to track the address of another party with which the user may wish to communicate. Without an address it is difficult to communicate directly across a network.

In response to the problem of changing addresses systems have been implemented using centralized servers that maintain ii permanent IP address and port number. Often specially designated programs may be allocated a port number for that special program s permanent exclusive use. In this way an agent can locate the centralized server and communicate with it. If appropriate the centralized server can forward a message to another agent who has also identified itself to the communications server. The centralized server acts as a hub for all communication. However if the centralized server or a communications link to the server should fail all communications cease.

In addition permanent address centralized servers typically require set up and maintenance by technical personnel. Applications running on the servers such as an email or database application may require a particular computing platform to execute the application software. With the proliferation of computing platforms such as Microsoft Windows Unix DOS and IBM OS2 it becomes increasingly difficult to support multiple platforms.

Multiple services in the form of resources and applications can be available on a network. Typically a discrete service requires a unique access interface. In addition different operating systems are often manifested in different interfaces.

It would be useful therefore to have a method of communicating that does not require a centralized server and is executable across multiple platforms.

A uniform network access mechanism or interface can enable a network agent to access multiple discrete network services the uniform network access mechanism can include software operative on multiple operating systems and executed on a network access device. In one aspect groups of loosely interconnected agents can communicate contemporaneously or at various times without intermediaries such as servers.

Communications can include text voice files and database access. Agents can include human users utilizing network access devices such as a personal computer or robot machines that are programmed to respond like humans. In another aspect agents operating on different operating system platforms can use an equivalent interface.

The operating systems can include the Disk Operating System DOS Windows 95 Windows NT UNIX Apple Mac OS or other operating systems. The software can display a registry of discrete services available on a network and implement communication with a discrete resource listed on the registry as available.

In general in one aspect a discrete resource is identified with a Personal Network PeN address comprising an Internet Protocol address and a port number. In another aspect the software can be additionally operative to coordinate the sending and receipt of data packets. A data packet can be received and parsed wherein an action responsive to the content of a received packet can be performed.

In general one response to packet content can construct a network socket with associated input and output streams and add it as a triplet to a multiplexer IOStreamList. A multiplexer can coordinate multiple communications to a discrete service available on the network.

In another aspect in general a discrete service can include a database query a mail message a chat message or a file transfer request. A communication or other data stream can also be encrypted to provide security against unauthorized access.

In general in another aspect the invention includes a uniform user interface invocable by a command on a network access device. The user interface can include a first display region for a registry to list available network agents and resources. In a second display region a log of communication events occurring between resources and agents can be displayed. A third display region can include user interactive controls to perform registry functions. A fourth display region can list available network functions and user interactive controls to enable or disable said network functions. In still another aspect a PeN virtual network can coordinate network access devices linked by a communications network. Software running on a network access device can create a registry coordinating PeN resources the registry can list unique PeN addresses for each resource and facilitate communications directly between network access devices.

The computer includes a system controller having an integrated RAM memory controller . The system controller can be connected to the processor host bus and provide an interface to Random Access Memory RAM . The system controller can also provide a host bus to peripheral bus bridging functions. The system controller can thereby permit signals on the processor host bus to be compatibly exchanged with signals on a peripheral bus . The peripheral bus may be for example a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus or a MicroChannel bus. Additionally the system controller can provide data buffering and data transfer rate matching between the host processor bus and peripheral bus . The system controller can thereby allow for example a processor having a 64 bit 66 MHz interface and a 533 Mbytes second data transfer rate to interface to a PCI bus having a data path differing in data path bit width clock speed or data transfer rate.

Accessory devices including for example a video controller and network adapter can be coupled to the peripheral bus . The network adapter may be a modem an Ethernet networking card a cable modem or other network access circuitry.

The computer can also include nonvolatile Read Only Memory ROM to store basic computer software routines. An operating system boot operation can occur after the computer is turned on and power on self test POST routines stored in the BIOS complete execution. During the boot process the processor executes BIOS software to access a bridge controller e.g. including a disk controller or network adapter and thereby obtain a high level operating system. The high level operating system may be for example the Disk Operating System DOS Windows 95 Windows NT UNIX Apple Mac OS or other operating systems.

An operating system may be fully loaded in the RAM memory or may include portions in RAM memory disk drive storage or storage at a network location. An operating system such as Windows 95 or Windows NT provides functionality to control computer peripherals such as devices and and to execute user applications. User applications may be commercially available software programs such as personal network software word processing spreadsheets Internet access software and many other types of software. User applications may access computer system peripherals through an Application Programming Interface API provided by the operating system and or may directly interact with underlying computer system hardware.

A collection of computers can serve as components of a communications network. Referring to a communications network can include network access devices such as client computers that are part of a local area network independent computers and other network access devices . Other network access devices can include for example cellular communications devices interactive WEB devices portable handheld devices or any device that provides communication on an electronic communication network such as the Internet.

A network agent can include a person or machine seeking to communicate over the communications network . Agents can communicate via a network access device . Network communication can be accomplished over a medium such as a combination of public switched telephone network dial up connections and packet network interconnections. Network access devices can connect through dial up direct cable access wireless technologies satellite or other communications media. A terminal server or may have both dial up and packet network interfaces allowing the server or to receive data from network access devices and respectively segment the received data into data packet segments add overhead information to the segments and send the resultant data packets over a link to a packet data network for delivery to the local area network . Terminal servers and may also be referred to as a network service provider s Point Of Presence POP . A registry can reside on any network access device to list and coordinate resources available on the network.

Software code operative with a processor on a network access device can provide a personal network PeN with a uniform network access mechanism such as a Uniform User Interface UUI to access local resources or resources available via the communications network . The UUI an be used across multiple software platforms and access device types to facilitate sharing resources and sending and receiving data. Establishing and maintaining a communications link between two or more network access devices enables a UUI to manage data queries messaging chat and other application requests. Utilization of a multi platform software language such as the Java programming language allows the UUI to present a universal interface to a user. The universal interface frees a user from having to learn a different interface for each operating system such as DOS Windows 95 Windows NT UNIX Apple Mac OS or other operating systems.

A UUI can operate directly on a network access device to eliminate the need for a specialized server dedicated to performing communications functions. Communications can be established directly between participating network access devices . Each network access device can specify the extent to which it will make its resources available and participate in activities such as network chat and messaging.

Referring now to program code can be executed on a network access device to present a UUI to an agent. The UUI can include user interactive controls such as a push button icons to facilitate operation of PeN functions. PeN functions can include system application programs file transfer chat sessions messaging or other discrete services. User interactive controls can also be utilized to offer UUI specific functions such as displaying a log displaying a clock re starting a PeN session displaying a software version or entering a setup utility . In addition the UUI can include user interactive controls for PeN functions. For example a button may be used to enable or disable system application programs file transfer chat sessions and messaging . Restarting a session can include an automated download of a new version of PeN and running the new version with minimal intrusion to the user.

A UUI can also include a drop down menu of resources available on the PeN or locally on the network access device . A resource available on the PeN can be accessed by choosing it from a resource drop down menu or by specifying a destination PeN address. A PeN address identifies the location at which a resource can be located. In one embodiment as illustrated in a PeN address can include a destination address concatenated with an application program identifier . The destination address can be a network address such as an IP address specifying a network access device on which a resource is being made available. The application program identifier can be a port number associated with an application program administering the resource.

To commence communications the UUI can poll a network to determine whether a network access device with which an originating agent wishes to communicate is available. Polling can be accomplished for instance with a ping of an IP address portion of a PeN address. A successful ping can signify that a corresponding resource is online and available.

Referring now to PeN addresses maintained in a registry can be displayed in an interface to facilitate location of various agents and resources . A registry can include a name or other identifier for each resource listed and a PeN address at which the identified resource can be communicated with. A PeN utilizing a registry enables communication amongst the addresses listed. In one embodiment a menu can be presented listing available resources . Selection of a resource from the registry can automatically open a communication session with that resource . A PeN can include one or more available agents . In a multi agent PeN communication can be directed to an individual destination or to multiple destinations. In addition an agent can participate in more than one PeN simultaneously.

The interface can include an identifier . In one embodiment the identifier can be indicative of the network access device hosting the registry . Other embodiments can include a description of the agents and resources listed or an arbitrary name. A registry interface can include a region displaying user interactive controls such as push buttons . Push buttons can actuate registry functions such as refresh the display clear the log save the log and exit.

Human agents robotic agents and other resources utilizing a PeN registry can be identified by multiple identification data including a short user name to uniquely identify a user to a registry an optional password that can enable a registry to verify a user s identity a user s full name location affiliations and or other details provided by the user or an optional digital portrait or other digital image of the user.

Identification data items can be made available to users of the registry whereby correspondents may be identified by their real names and likenesses obviating the need to memorize user names or email addresses.

A network access device hosting a registry may poll agents and resources listed on the registry periodically and update the availability of the agents and resources listed according to the results of the poll. For example a network access device may publish a registry that allows agents to log in and declare an address at which they can be reached. In addition the registry may list other resources such as a database or file library. A poll may consist of a ping on a periodic basis to ascertain the continued presence of an agent or resource . In addition a network access device can ping a registry on a periodic or other basis. A successful ping will certify that the registry is accurate.

In one embodiment a network access device with a permanent PeN address maintains a registry allowing other agents listed in the registry to declare their current PeN address as an agent becomes available online. The permanent address of the network access device maintaining the PeN can act as a known origination point for the PeN.

In other instances a network access device with a permanent address may not be available and a network access device with a temporary PeN address will publish a registry . The temporary address needs to be conveyed to an agent seeking to log into the registry . A temporary PeN address can be considered via email telephone bulletin board or other communications method. Moreover a temporary address might be for example allocated by the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP mechanism.

In one embodiment multiple network access devices included in a PeN will host a registry concurrently. One of the registries can be active and coordinate the communications. However messaging or other PeN functions do not flow through the registry. The registry simply coordinates network access devices and PeN resources. In the event the network access device hosting the active registry drops out another registry can automatically become active. In addition an active registry can proactively transfer the active status to another registry .

Referring now to a General Settings display can display PeN information. The General Settings can include the user name of an agent a password and an actual name . The General Settings can also include user interactive controls such as check boxes to enable PeN functions such as messaging file transfer and chat sessions . In addition a drop down menu or other listing of available registries can be included. Selecting a registry by clicking on a listed registry can log an agent into the selected registry . A function to change or edit a greeting presented to an agent log into a PeN registry can also be included in the General Settings .

Referring now to a network access device making a resource such as a database chat session or other shared application available to access by other agents can accommodate multiple concurrent access with a resource sharing mechanism such as a multiplexer .

A multiplexer can manage multiple streams of data being received and sent. Each data stream is conveyed via a communications link such as an Internet socket . A data stream can include one or more data packets received from a network agent. A packet is collected from an input stream or as it is received and transferred to a single input line of communication providing input to a shared application . Responses from the shared application are directed back on an output stream through the multiplexer to an output stream connected to the original Internet socket from which it was received.

One embodiment of a multiplexer utilizes a software program such as a Network Agent software program to initiate new corrections construct a network socket with associated input and output streams and connect them as a triplet to a multiplexer IOStreamList . The multiplexer can continuously scan the list. A communication received from the input stream on this list is transmitted to the shared resource. Responses are transmitted on an associated output stream. When a session is terminated the multiplexer closes the associated socket and removes its triplet from the list. A typical programming loop for a multiplexer is illustrated in Table 1.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates one embodiment of a process for receipt of a data packet by a network access device . An agent can wait for a packet arrival or user command . If a packet is received it can be tested to determine if it is a message. If it is a message the message can be tested for private mode indicating encryption. If the message is received encrypted it can be decrypted and processed . Processing can include displaying the content of the message or other action indicated by the message. If the input is a user command it can be tested to determine if it is a command to initiate communication with an agent listed in the registry address list . If it is the communication requested can be made . If the input is not a command to initiate communication it can be tested to see if it is a command to modify the registry . If it is a command to modify the registry the registry can be modified accordingly . If it is not the packet can be tested for a command to exit or proceed to additional routines . Data packets can also include email. A network agent can additionally be programmed to receive send store archive and otherwise participate in email.

Referring to a file request received by an agent can be responded to with a search for the file a test for permission to send a particular file found to the requestor a check to see if encryption is appropriate and if all conditions are met sending the file to the requester or . In response to a request to push a file the file can be received and tested for private mode indicating encryption . If appropriate it can be decrypted and saved to local disk .

Referring now to which illustrates functions of a registry for processing a packet requesting login logout confirmation or database query . A login request may receive a response of an OK message and a list of records representing all agents logged in . A logout request may be responded to with an OK message back to sender and a notification to all other agents . A confirmation request may receive a search a status set equal to good and an OK message back to the sender . A database query request response may be a query search and a positive response or negative response sent back to the requester. A completed transaction can also be used to confirm a sender s status as good .

The above flow illustrations are exemplary and should not be viewed as limiting. Data packet formats switching equipment within the packet network and networking protocols used within the network may conform to the transaction control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP . In a TCP IP implementation the local area network packet network and terminal servers can each be assigned a unique IP network address. Implementations may use other networking protocols and packet formats.

The present invention may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations thereof. Apparatus of the invention may be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps of the invention may be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. Note that the computer program might be transmitted from a server to a user device e.g. his or her PC and then locally stored and executed.

The invention may advantageously be implemented in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. Each computer program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language or in assembly or machine language if desired and in any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a ROM and or a RAM. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM disks. Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs .

A number of embodiments of the present invention have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example various application programs can be accessed as resources by a network access device or a network access device may be a receive only device. Commands can be forwarded to a receive only device to control a function of the device however no response is received back from a receive only device.

According to some other embodiments the resource that is shared in a peer to peer fashion is an interface application that is controlled by or communicating with a human user or an automated process. For example an automated process might use artificial intelligence techniques to simulate human operators such as to provide basic customer service when no human representatives are available e.g. technical support or acting on the behalf of a human user to transact business.

Moreover the resource may provide controlled or uncontrolled access to traditional software applications such as database systems spread sheets and search engines. For example the resource might valid a user name and or password before letting that user access information.

According to one embodiment the resource is associated with a common depository of messages from a plurality of other agents creating a bulletin board service.

According to still other embodiments the resource is associated with a remote shopping service guiding users through a collection of commercial wares e.g. products and services . For example users might receive graphical representations descriptions pricing information and other information about products and services. Moreover the resource might facilitate a sale of such items to a user.

According to yet other embodiments the resource lets human users at remote locations communicate in various ways including typed words speech pictures and transmitted files. In this case the resource might store a historic record of previous interactions with the same correspondent or correspondents such that each new message appears in its proper conversational context. In this way a consistent record of an entire long term interaction might be created e.g. including text graphical elements and or file transfers . Moreover the historical record might contain time stamps indicating when each transaction was sent and or received. In addition the record might use encryption and other techniques to ensure that it is a complete and accurate record e.g. to prevent unauthorized tampering . According to another embodiment users might be allowed to modify the historical record e.g. to provide a mechanism for collaborative writing .

In another embodiment the resources are intermediary applications receiving transmissions from a plurality of other resources and forwarding them unmodified to corresponding other resources providing a controlled bridge or access point suitable for crossing firewalls.

Transmissions between resources may be encrypted digitally signed or subject to other security measures.

