---

title: 3-point wheelchair passenger securement system
abstract: The embodiments described and claimed herein are improved wheelchair passenger securement systems and stations. In particular, one embodiment described and claimed herein is a system comprising a barrier module and a wall-side module, which incorporate three separate restraint devices which are configured to secure a wheelchair at three separate attachment points. The system can optionally include a moveable excursion barrier or a pull-mechanism to pre-tension at least one of the restraint devices the wheelchair securements. In a simpler embodiment, three restraint devices, such as retractors, are provided for attachment to the vehicle surfaces or structures in, for example, a generally right-triangular configuration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09107786&OS=09107786&RS=09107786
owner: Valeda Company, LLC
number: 09107786
owner_city: Ft. Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application is a continuation in part of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 573 881 entitled 3 POINT WHEELCHAIR PASSENGER SECUREMENT SYSTEM filed Oct. 5 2009 which is a continuation in part of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 847 435 entitled BARRIER WITH INTEGRATED WHEELCHAIR RESTRAINTS filed Aug. 30 2007 which is a continuation in part of International Application No. PCT US2006 030085 entitled RESTRAINT SYSTEM which was and filed on Aug. 2 2006 and which claims priority to Provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 705 452 entitled RESTRAINT SYSTEM and filed on Aug. 5 2005. U.S. application Ser. No. 11 847 435 is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 252 326 entitled RESTRAINT SYSTEM and filed on Oct. 17 2005 which claims priority to Provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 618 572 entitled AUTOMATIC BELT RETRACTOR RELEASE SYSTEM and filed on Oct. 15 2004.

U.S. application Ser. No. 12 573 881 also claims priority to provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 102 853 entitled 3 POINT WHEELCHAIR PASSENGER SECUREMENT SYSTEM filed Oct. 5 2008.

U.S. application Ser. No. 12 573 881 U.S. application Ser. No. 11 847 435 International Application No. PCT US2006 030085 U.S. application Ser. No. 11 252 326 and Provisional U.S. Application Ser. Nos. 61 102 853 60 618 572 and 60 705 452 are hereby incorporated by reference.

The embodiments described and claimed herein relate generally to wheelchair passenger securement methods systems and devices for vehicles. More specifically at least some of the embodiments described herein relate to a method system or device for securing a wheelchair passenger in a vehicle train bus van plane etc. using 3 points of attachment for securing the wheelchair.

The Americans with Disabilities Act ADA mandates that all public transit service providers must accommodate persons with disabilities including those who must use a wheelchair as their seat in the transport vehicle. ADA also mandates that for the safety of the wheelchair user and near by passengers the wheelchair must be secured so that it will not move more than 2 in any direction during normal vehicle operation. In addition restraints must be attached to the wheelchair historically two in front and two in the rear that are sufficiently strong to keep it secured in the event of a crash event.

Current systems on the market generally use a four point system where two restraints are used to secure the front of the wheelchair and two are used to secure the rear of the wheelchair one on each corner of the wheelchair . In that respect the current systems utilize four attachment points on the vehicle four attachment points on the wheelchair and four restraints extending between each respective vehicle attachment point and wheelchair attachment point. The prior art four point systems are considered by many to be relatively cumbersome and time consuming to secure especially if the system is used on a public transit vehicle where dwell times are critical.

The prior art four point systems suffer from numerous problems or short comings. For example the four point systems utilize two restraint devices for securing the front of the wheelchair one on the wall side of the wheelchair and one on the aisle side of the wheelchair. The use of the additional aisle side restraint increases the cost of installation more components and labor poses a significant obstacle and tripping hazard for wheelchairs and other passengers and requires more time to secure the chair increasing vehicle dwell time and the potential for driver injuries while attempting to secure the device . Some have attempted to solve this problem by mounting the aisle side restraint device to a retractable arm such as the one disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 888 038 but such a system adds unnecessary expense and still poses a potential tripping hazard.

Others have attempted to vary from the traditional four point systems with limited success. See for example the systems described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 060 271 4 257 644 4 427 210 4 492 403 4 688 843 4 265 478 5 026 225 and 6 113 325. One of the attempted solutions utilizes three attachment points on the vehicle. For example the system disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 113 325 the 325 patent utilizes three vehicle attachment points or restraint devices two in the front one in the rear . However this system still suffers from the same problems as the traditional four point system since it also requires the use of a coupling or some other device such as a Y belt see reference number 48 in U.S. Pat. No. 6 113 325 . Although the coupling is only secured at one end to the single rear restraint device the coupling is configured to secure the rear of the wheelchair at two wheelchair attachment points. In such systems there are still effectively four attachment points to the wheelchair. Therefore such systems are still relatively cumbersome and time consuming to use. Plus these systems are inherently weaker than the traditional four point systems four vehicle attachment points four wheelchair attachment points since they utilize only one restraint device to secure the rear of the wheelchair where more strength is required to sufficiently restrain the wheelchair during emergency braking events. Also if the coupling or Y belt is not permanently attached there is the potential to lose the component rendering the system useless. Further the vehicle operator must still attach four restraints to the wheelchair as in conventional systems as well as connect the additional coupling to the rear restraint device. In fact it is believed that such a configuration may actually increase dwell time and potential for driver injury as compared to traditional four point systems. Even further the configuration of these prior art systems are quite complex which increases the opportunity to use it improperly. It should not be forgotten that driver error is one of the most predominant causes of wheelchair tip overs in the industry.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 257 644 the 644 patent also discloses a system utilizing three vehicle attachment points. However this prior art system utilizes manually operable restraints and coffers or covered floor pockets that are bulky difficult to use can pose a significant tripping hazard and require an extra installation as compared to the embodiments described herein. Like the prior art system of the 325 patent the system disclosed in the 644 patent also only uses a single vehicle attachment point to secure the rear of the wheelchair and is therefore inherently weak. As discussed above in typical wheelchair securement systems where the wheelchair passenger is forward facing in the vehicle more strength is required to secure the rear of the wheelchair as opposed to the front to withstand emergency braking events.

The embodiments described and claimed herein solve at least some of the problems of the prior art wheelchair restraint systems. In simple terms the embodiments described and claimed herein utilize three vehicle attachment points and three wheelchair attachment points to effectively secure a wheelchair. Instead of using a fourth wheelchair attachment point like the prior art the present system may also use a fourth contact or touch point between the wheelchair and a side barrier. The side barrier may be a part of the vehicle itself such as a side wall or could be a separate structure that is rigidly or movably fixed to the vehicle.

In one particular embodiment described and claimed herein two of the vehicle attachment points and two of the wheelchair attachment points are provided at the rear of the wheelchair where the most strength is needed for forward facing applications. It has been found that front restraints in most instances mainly come into play on rebound and primarily find use to prevent the front of the wheelchair from swinging out into the aisle. Therefore only having one vehicle attachment point and one wheelchair attachment point at the front of the wheelchair is sufficient.

The configurations described and claimed herein are simpler to use than the prior art systems since they utilize fewer points of attachment to the vehicle and wheelchair. For the present systems the opportunity for the driver to improperly secure the wheelchair and to suffer injury is reduced since there is one and sometimes two less devices to bend down and attach and or activate. Further the potential tripping hazard for other passengers and potential liability for vehicle operators is reduced. Even further utilization of the presently described configurations reduces the amount of installation time required and the maintenance needed for the vehicle s owner.

In one embodiment a drop in system comprising a barrier module and a side wall module is provided. The system is configured for forward facing securement of a wheelchair relative to the direction of travel of the vehicle where the back of the wheelchair is adjacent the barrier module and the side wall module is adjacent the wall of the vehicle. The barrier module is provided with two tie down or securement or restraint devices for securing the wheelchair from two points such as the two rear corners of the wheelchair. The side wall module is provided with a single tie down device which is spaced a distance forward from the barrier module for securing the wheelchair at a single point such as the front wall side corner of the wheelchair.

In another embodiment a similar drop in system is provided except that the embodiment includes a movable side barrier which has a retracted position towards a wall of the vehicle and an extended position in which the side barrier contacts and exerts a force onto the wheelchair in a direction away from the wall to induce pretension in the previously attached tie down devices.

In yet another embodiment a similar drop in system is provided except that the side barrier of the third embodiment is fixed rather than movable.

In yet another embodiment a similar drop in system is provided except that the embodiment includes a pull mechanism that exerts a force on the single tie down device for example in a direction towards the wall whereby urging the wheelchair towards the wall or side barrier and inducing pre tension into the tie down device. The pull mechanism may be a part of the side barrier or could be a separate structure that is rigidly or movably fixed to the vehicle. Even further the mechanism inducing pre tension may be activated by foot and or hand and be electric electro mechanical or mechanical.

In yet another embodiment a more simple system is provided which includes three tie down devices arranged in a generally right triangular configuration two at the rear of the wheelchair and one at the front of the wheelchair. The tie down devices can be mounted to any structure of the vehicle such as the floor or wall.

In yet another embodiment a single front tie down is provided in combination with a retractable anchor onto which two rear tie down devices are attached. In one instance the retractable anchor includes a housing which is attached to some portion of the vehicle such as the floor. The retractable anchor also includes an extendable member or arm which is configured to telescope into the housing. The arm is configured to retract into the housing to eliminate a potential tripping hazard for non wheelchair passengers and to eliminate an obstacle for wheelchair passengers. One of the two tie down devices would be connected to the housing and the other to the arm.

Other embodiments which include some combination of the features discussed above and below and other features which are known in the art are contemplated as falling within the claims even if such embodiments are not specifically identified and discussed herein.

It should be understood that the drawings are not necessarily to scale and that the embodiments are sometimes illustrated by graphic symbols phantom lines diagrammatic representations and fragmentary views. In certain instances details which are not necessary for an understanding of the embodiments described and claimed herein or which render other details difficult to perceive may have been omitted. It should be understood of course that the inventions described herein are not necessarily limited to the particular embodiments illustrated. Indeed it is expected that persons of ordinary skill in the art may devise a number of alternative configurations that are similar and equivalent to the embodiments shown and described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the claims.

Like reference numerals will be used to refer to like or similar parts from Figure to Figure in the following detailed description of the drawings.

Referring first to a first embodiment of a three point wheelchair securement system or station is shown for securing a wheelchair and its occupant in a vehicle such as a bus van train aircraft boat or the like. The first embodiment of the wheelchair securement system includes a barrier module and a side wall module . With certain exceptions discussed herein the barrier and side wall modules of the first embodiment are substantially similar to those described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 847 435 which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

In the first embodiment the wheelchair securement system is best characterized as a drop in system for a vehicle which is fully equipped to secure a wheelchair and its passenger in a forward facing orientation i.e. with respect to the direction of travel of the vehicle . In this orientation the barrier module is forward facing i.e. positioned rearward of the side wall module in the vehicle and secures the wheelchair at two attachment points at the rear of the wheelchair. Although shown in a configuration suitable for installation adjacent a right side wall of a vehicle the system could be configured as a mirror image of the shown configuration for installation adjacent a left side wall of the vehicle. The side wall module is positioned adjacent to a wall of the vehicle and secures the wheelchair at a single attachment point at the front of the wheelchair. The barrier module and side wall module through the use of three points of attachment to the wheelchair work in conjunction to adequately secure the wheelchair in compliance with the ADA and to prevent significant movement twisting or tipping of the wheelchair.

To facilitate simple installation the shown system is intended to be substantially assembled for a vehicle manufacturer or retrofitter and needs only to be mounted or bolted into place without any further significant installation. To achieve this end in a cost effective manner the barrier module and side wall module are provided or shipped as separate units which are connected together by the installer. However it is contemplated that alternative embodiments could comprise pre integrated barrier and side wall modules or barrier and side wall modules which are not configured for interconnection.

The first embodiment of the wheelchair securement system includes a side wall arrangement with seats to make most efficient use of vehicle space. In that respect the area designated for the wheelchair passenger system can be used for other passengers sitting and or standing when it is not needed for a wheelchair passenger. The side wall module of the first embodiment incorporates a fold up seat so that the seat can be positioned out of the way when a wheelchair passenger boards the vehicle. It is however contemplated that other seating arrangements could be used such as forward facing seating. For example the barrier module could be provided with a similar stowable seat which can be moved out of the way when the wheelchair securement system is needed.

The wheelchair securement system includes three securement or tie down assemblies which work in conjunction to adequately secure a wheelchair in compliance with the ADA. In the first embodiment each of the three securement assemblies comprises a retractor . Each refractor includes several feet of webbing or strap at a terminal end of which is provided a wheelchair engaging member which could be any type of fastener. The shown wheelchair engaging member or fastener is an anchor or S hook or J hook which can be easily attached to and easily removed from any portion of a wheelchair such as a structural member. Refractors suitable for use in this application include Q Straint s QRT Series refractors see www.qstraint.com . As an alternative to the refractors shown herein manually adjustable straps can be used such as Q Straint s Q 5000 and M series belt systems.

The retractors as shown are mounted internal to the barrier module . The only portion of the securement assemblies that protrude from the barrier modules are the restraint straps and the wheelchair engagement members . The refractor as shown is mounted to the leg of the side wall module underneath the fold up seat . This configuration substantially reduces the potential tripping hazard for passengers as compared to prior art systems which include exposed refractors.

While the depictions of the first embodiment show the retractors mounted internal to the barrier module it is contemplated that other embodiments could include retractors mounted external to the barrier module . Moreover while the refractor is shown mounted to the leg of side wall module it is contemplated that the refractor could be mounted to any other portion of the module or to any other component of the vehicle such as the wall or floor. Indeed as shown in the figures and described in more detail below the more simple embodiments of the claimed securement systems may not include a barrier or side wall module at all. Such simple embodiments could consist of three securement assemblies which are mounted in a generally triangular pattern in the vehicle. The securement assemblies can be fastened to any surface or structure of the vehicle including the floor and walls.

While the retractors could theoretically be mounted directly to a floor surface of the vehicle with the claims covering such a configuration it has been found that better performance can be obtained by spacing the retractors a distance from the floor a configuration espoused by the first embodiment of the wheelchair securement system . However the retractors should be spaced a slight distance below the wheelchair structure to which the wheelchair engaging members will be attached. In other words it is preferable that the restraint strap be slightly angled upwards towards the wheelchair so that the securement assembly can exert a downward force on the wheelchair.

The barrier module of the first embodiment also includes a remote control device with a release latch or paddle handle for releasing one or more of the securement assemblies . For example the embodiments could include any of the systems described in U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 60 705 452 U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 618 572 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 252 326 and or PCT patent application no. PCT US06 30085 which are all incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.

The first embodiment of the wheelchair securement system also includes a side barrier or pad or bumper . The side barrier can be constructed of any material and can be rigid soft and or resilient. For example the side barrier could comprise high density polyurethane foam similar to car head rests and could be covered with fabric. Alternatively a metal plastic or rubberized structure could be used.

The side barrier can serve one or more of many different functions. For example as shown the barrier serves at least two purposes. First the barrier provides spacing between the wheelchair and the vehicle wall and or the side wall module . The spacing between the wheelchair and the wall side wall module that is provided by the side barrier serves to prevent injury to the wheelchair passenger in an accident should an appendage find its way therebetween. Second the barrier resists lateral and or rotative movement of the wheelchair towards the vehicle wall. Ideally although not necessarily the wheelchair will be in close proximity or will actually touch the side barrier when properly secured.

In the shown embodiment it is contemplated that the side barrier would have resilient properties wherein it would have some give but still provide firm support for the wheelchair. In an alternative embodiment the side barrier could be biased outward using for example a spring that pushes the side barrier outward. When the front restraint was hooked up and would pull the chair in the springs would provide an opposing force to stabilize the chair. As discussed below at least in the context of the second embodiment the side barrier could also be mechanized or inflatable wherein it is movable to positively contact the wheelchair and induce pre tension into the securement assemblies 

With reference now to a second embodiment of a wheelchair securement system is shown. Like the first embodiment the second embodiment includes a barrier module and a side wall module that are substantially similar to those described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 847 435. In addition the second embodiment of the wheelchair securement system is intended to be a drop in system and through the use of three points of attachment to the wheelchair work in conjunction to adequately secure the wheelchair in compliance with the ADA and to prevent significant movement twisting or tipping of the wheelchair.

More specifically the wheelchair securement system includes three securement or tie down assemblies which work in conjunction to adequately secure a wheelchair in compliance with the ADA. Each of the three securement assemblies comprises a retractor although two of the refractors are mounted internal to the barrier modules in a similar manner as in the first embodiment and are therefore not shown. Each refractor includes several feet of webbing or strap at a terminal end of which is provided a wheelchair engaging member which could be any type of fastener.

The second embodiment of the wheelchair securement system also includes at least one side barrier or pad . The side barrier can be constructed of any material although as shown the side barrier comprises a rubber material. The second embodiment includes a front restraint mechanism disposed within housing that is adapted to pull the wheelchair into contact with the side barrier through use of the strap guide . The refractor as shown is mounted to the housing for the front restraint mechanism positioned slightly forward of the strap guide . In this configuration the strap extends from the refractor through the strap guide and to the wheelchair where the wheelchair engaging member is attached to the wheelchair. Manipulation of a handle for the mechanism causes the strap guide to retract into the housing thereby drawing up any slack in the strap and pulling the wheelchair flush up against the side barrier . In this configuration the wheelchair is most secure since tension is introduced into the restraints and the contact between the barrier and the wheelchair will limit lateral movement towards the wall both during normal and emergency driving events.

As with the first embodiment the second embodiment of the barrier module includes a remote control device with a release latch or paddle handle for releasing one or more of the securement assemblies such as any one of the systems described in U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 60 705 452 U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 618 572 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 252 326 and or PCT patent application No. PCT US06 30085.

Referring now primarily to the second embodiment of the wheelchair securement station is shown with a wheelchair properly secured therein although the wheelchair has been made transparent for purposes of clarity. As previously described the wheelchair is forward facing in the vehicle. With this orientation in mind one can envision the wheelchair as having four quadrants which are defined by the longitudinal axis and lateral axis of the wheelchair. The securement assemblies attach to the wheelchair at three points one point within three of the four quadrants of the wheelchair. The first two attachment points are at the rear of the wheelchair i.e. the engaging member of the securement assembly engages with the wheelchair in the rear right side quadrant which in this particular case is also the rear wall side quadrant and the engaging member of the securement assembly engages with the wheelchair in the rear left side quadrant which in this particular case is also the rear aisle side quadrant . The third attachment point is at the front of the wheelchair. As shown the engaging member of the securement assembly engages with the wheelchair in the front right side quadrant which in this particular case is also the front wall side quadrant although it is contemplated that the front left side quadrant which in this particular case is also the front aisle side quadrant or the dividing line therebetween could be engaged in the alternative. However it is believed that greater tip resistance can be achieved by locating the third attachment point as near as possible to the front right corner of the wheelchair when the wall is adjacent to the right side of the wheelchair. Likewise when the wall and the associated side barrier is adjacent to the left side of the wheelchair it is believed that greater tip resistance can be achieved by locating the third attachment point as near as possible to the front left corner of the wheelchair.

With reference now to a first embodiment of the front restraint mechanism is shown with several components omitted for purposes of clarity including the housing and strap guide which are clearly shown in . The mechanism is a pivot mechanism consisting essentially of a link that pivots about pin . At a first or upper end of the link a handle for operating the mechanism is attached. At a second or lower end of the link the strap guide is attached although not shown . A person of ordinary skill in the art would understand that pulling handle in the direction A causes the second end of the link and thus the strap guide to rotate clockwise about the pin . When the handle is pulled in direction A the strap guide extends into the housing for the mechanism which as discussed earlier induces pre tension into the securement assembly . Rigidly fixed to the underside of the link is a ratchet that is configured to engage with a pawl . The ratchet and pawl are configured to allow clockwise movements of the link and to prevent counter clockwise movements of the link . The mechanism further includes a cable attached at one end to the lower end of the handle and at its opposite end to the pawl . A person of ordinary skill in the art would understand that pulling on the handle in direction B would cause the pawl to release from the ratchet thereby allowing the link to be rotated counter clockwise to release the pre tension from the securement assembly

Turning now to a third embodiment of a wheelchair securement station is depicted. The third embodiment is quite similar to the first and second embodiments in that it includes a barrier module a side wall module with a fold up seat and three securement or tie down assemblies two assemblies hidden from view for tying down the rear of the wheelchair and one for tying down the front of the wheelchair. However unlike the first embodiment the securement assemblies are not mounted internal to the barrier module but are instead mounted external to the barrier module on its leg supports.

Also the securement station includes a side barrier which is disposed on the wall side of the vehicle below the flip seat and which is movable between a refracted and extended position. In the side barrier is shown in the extended position where it positively contacts the wheelchair and induces tension into the securement assemblies . In a retracted position the barrier would be positioned generally parallel with the wall of the vehicle. Any means known in the mechanical arts could be used to provide motive force for the side barrier including springs and various types of actuators including pneumatic cylinders and linear actuators. As an alternative the movable barrier could comprise an inflatable bellows.

Turning now to a fourth embodiment of a wheelchair securement station is depicted. The station presents a much more simple configuration than presented by the previously described embodiments and includes three securement assemblies or or aligned in roughly a right triangle configuration. Like the earlier embodiments the securement assemblies or or can be refractors. While the earlier embodiments show the retractors attached to various barrier and side wall modules the refractors or or of the fourth embodiment can be mounted to any structure in the vehicle for example the refractors could be floor or wall mounted. In such configuration the retractors or or can be directly attached to the wall or floor or could be attached to the wall or floor using track structures or pocket anchorages. For example in one installation Q Straint s L track structure or Slide N Click pocket anchorages could be used. A bracket of some type could be used to ensure the angle and position of the refractor is optimal.

Although possible it is not intended that the fourth embodiment will be used in isolation. Indeed it is contemplated that the refractors or or could be placed below various seating and or barrier modules. For example the simple configuration of the fourth embodiment has practical application for retrofitting vehicles having existing seating structures.

With reference now to a fifth embodiment of the wheelchair securement station is shown. The station is similar to the third embodiment in that it includes three securement assemblies which as shown are refractors or . The forward most securement assembly or could be attached to any structure in the vehicle including the floor or wall. Also like the third embodiment the fifth embodiment has practical application for retrofitting vehicles having existing seating structures.

The fifth embodiment differs from the previous embodiments in that it includes a retractable anchor for securing the rear side of the wheelchair such as the one described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 776 223 which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference. In the alternative other retractable anchors could be used such as the ones shown and described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 888 038 6 113 325 6 149 359 6 428 254 6 575 677 and 6 966 733. As shown the retractable anchor has two main structural components the housing and the arm . The arm is generally adapted to retract inside of the housing when the anchor is not being used to restrain a wheelchair in order to increase the available floor space for non wheelchair passengers. Onto each of the housing and arm is mounted a securement assembly . When the retractable anchor is fully extended as shown the securement assembly is properly positioned for attachment to a wheelchair.

Turning now to a sixth embodiment of the wheelchair securement station is shown. Like the second embodiment the sixth embodiment includes a barrier module and a side wall module that are substantially similar to those described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 847 435 and is intended to be a drop in system. Also like the second embodiment the sixth embodiment of the wheelchair securement system uses three points of attachment to the wheelchair which work in conjunction with a side barrier and or a front restraint mechanism or tensioner assembly to adequately secure the wheelchair in compliance with the ADA and to prevent significant movement twisting or tipping of the wheelchair.

More specifically the wheelchair securement system includes three securement or tie down assemblies which work in conjunction to adequately secure a wheelchair in compliance with the ADA. As best shown in each of the three securement assemblies comprises a retractor . Retractors are mounted internal to the barrier module and retractor is mounted to the side wall barrier inside of a housing assembly . Each retractor includes several feet of webbing or strap at a terminal end of which is provided a wheelchair engaging member which could be any type of fastener. At least the front retractor includes a locking mechanism and a lever or actuator . The locking mechanism prevents the webbing from being pulled out of the retractor and depressing the lever overrides the locking mechanism and allows the webbing to be extended.

Like the second embodiment the sixth embodiment of the wheelchair securement system also includes at least one side barrier or pad . The side barrier can be constructed of any material although as shown the side barrier comprises a rubber or neoprene material. As shown the side barrier includes a recessed area adjacent the barrier module and a projected area near the front securement assembly to accommodate or conform to the shape of a wheelchair which is wider at the rear and more narrow at the front. However it is anticipated the side barrier could be flat without the recessed area. The contact side barrier is preferably positioned adjacent or near a floor of the vehicle underneath a side seating arrangement but can be adjusted up or down to accommodate different seating options.

With particular reference now to the sixth embodiment includes a second embodiment of a front restraint mechanism disposed within housings and that is adapted to pull the wheelchair towards or into contact with the side barrier through use of the strap guide . The retractor as shown is mounted to the frame structure for the side wall module positioned slightly forward of the strap guide and a loop member which is affixed to the frame structure . In this configuration the strap extends from the refractor through the loop member then through the strap guide and finally to the wheelchair where the wheelchair engaging member is attached to the wheelchair. The strap guide is interconnected with a handle actuator by means of shaft . Shaft is rigidly fixed to both the strap guide and the handle actuator and extends through an aperture through the frame structure . With this configuration it is readily obvious that rotation of the handle actuator about the axis of the shaft causes the strap guide to rotate in a similar direction. More specifically pulling the handle actuator away from the vehicle wall i.e. clockwise about axis of shaft in direction C causes the strap guide to rotate in a direction generally towards the vehicle wall thereby drawing up any slack in the strap and pulling the wheelchair adjacent to or flush up against the side barrier . In this configuration the wheelchair is most secure since tension is introduced into the restraints and the close positional relationship or contact between the barrier and the wheelchair will limit lateral movement towards the wall both during normal and emergency driving events.

The mechanism includes components which are configured to engage with the lever on the front refractor . Specifically when the securement system is not being used i.e. when the handle actuator is positioned generally vertical in engagement with spring lock the mechanism is configured to depress lever thereby allowing the strap to be withdrawn from the refractor . Lever is depressed using link which is pivotably attached to the frame assembly. Spring is interconnected between the frame structure and the first or lower portion of the link to bias the lower portion of the link away from the lever . Therefore in its default state lever is not depressed. However the mechanism includes cam member which is rigidly fixed to shaft . When the handle actuator is positioned generally vertical i.e. the unlocked unrestrained position the cam member engages with the underside of the second or upper portion of the link to force the lower portion of the link towards and into engagement with lever . See in particular the cross section in which shows cam member forcing link into engagement with lever . In that respect when the station is not being use and the handle actuator is in the unlocked unrestrained position the strap can be readily withdrawn from the refractor so that the fastener can be engaged with a wheelchair. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that when handle actuator is pulled in direction C to the locked restrained position cam member rotates in the same direction thereby allowing spring to pull the first portion of link away from engagement with lever . When this occurs the locking mechanism of the refractor is engaged which prevents further strap from being withdrawn.

With reference now in particular to and the mechanism includes a ratchet and pawl which work in conjunction to allow the handle to be pulled clockwise in direction C but prevent the handle from moving counterclockwise. More specifically the ratchet is rigidly affixed to the frame structure and includes a stop to prevent over rotation of the handle actuator or can be adjusted to limit the travel of the handle while the pawl is pivotably affixed to a lower end of the handle actuator . A spring is provided which is interconnected between the pawl and the handle actuator and biases a first end of the pawl into engagement with the ratchet .

The handle actuator includes a ratchet release mechanism comprising a handle which is connected to a cam follower via a torsion member . The torsion member extends from the handle to the cam follower through the tubular body of the handle actuator . The handle is configured to rotate in at least one direction D about the axis of the tubular body to facilitate engagement of pawl with ratchet . More specifically torsion member transmits the torque exerted upon the handle to cam follower whereby rotation of handle causes cam follower to rotate about the axis of the tubular body . Cam follower engages with cam surface which is present on a second end of the pawl . When handle is rotated counterclockwise cam follower rides along cam surface and forces the second end of the pawl downward whereby the first end of the pawl moves upward and out of engagement with the ratchet .

As with some of the previous embodiments the sixth embodiment of the barrier module includes a remote control device or timed release mechanism with a release latch or paddle handle or release handle for releasing one or more of the securement assemblies such as any one of the systems described in U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 60 705 452 U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 618 572 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 252 326 and or PCT patent application No. PCT US06 30085. In the shown embodiment paddle handle releases the locking mechanisms of retractors for a predetermined amount of time which is sufficient for the vehicle operator to engage release the fasteners with from the wheelchair.

Proper restraint of a wheelchair in the sixth embodiment of the system can be achieved using the following steps. First the side seat should be placed and locked in the folded upward position. Second the wheelchair is moved into position with the back of the passenger placed adjacent the barrier module and the wheelchair positioned in the center of the area as close as possible to the side barrier ideally in contact with the side barrier . Third the paddle handle is pulled which releases the locking mechanisms of retractors for a predetermined period of time. Fourth webbing is withdrawn and fasteners are attached to structural members of the wheelchair. Preferably and as described in more detail above for the second embodiment fastener engages with the wheelchair in the rear right side quadrant and the fastener engages with the wheelchair in the rear left side quadrant . Fifth the vehicle operator should verify that the handle actuator is in its unlocked unrestrained position so that the locking mechanism of retractor is disengaged and webbing can be withdrawn. As shown the handle actuator is in its unlocked unrestrained position when it is generally vertical and held in place by spring lock . Then webbing is withdrawn and fastener engages with the wheelchair in the front right side quadrant i.e. the quadrant adjacent the wall of the vehicle . Sixth preferably after the predetermined period of time has elapsed the handle actuator is pulled in direction C. This action simultaneously causes the locking mechanism of refractor to engage and thereby prevent further withdrawal of webbing and the strap guide to pull webbing towards the wall of the vehicle and thereby remove slack from at least webbing . Engagement of the ratchet and pawl holds the handle actuator in the locked restrained position. Finally once everything is secured and in position the wheelchair wheel locks are then engaged or power supply is turned off. In its final restrained position the wheelchair is positioned very close to or ideally in contact with the side barrier .

When the wheelchair passenger decides to disembark the vehicle the above steps are essentially performed but in reverse order. First the handle of the handle actuator is rotated to disengage the pawl from the ratchet . This allows the handle actuator to be moved back to its original unlocked unrestrained position. Once this step is performed the locking mechanism of refractor is once again released which allows the fastener to be removed from the wheelchair and the webbing to be drawn back into the refractor . Second the paddle handle is once again pulled which allows fasteners to be removed from engagement with the wheelchair and webbing to be drawn back into the refractors . Finally the vehicle operator removes the wheelchair wheel locks or turns power supply on for electric wheelchairs and the wheelchair passenger is now free to disembark the vehicle.

Turning now to a seventh embodiment of the wheelchair securement station is shown. Like the sixth embodiment the seventh embodiment includes a barrier module and a side wall module and uses three points of attachment to the wheelchair which work in conjunction with a side barrier and or a front restraint mechanism or tensioner assembly to adequately secure the wheelchair in compliance with the ADA and to prevent significant movement twisting or tipping of the wheelchair. Like the side barrier of the sixth embodiment the side barrier includes a recessed area adjacent the barrier module and a projected area near the front securement assembly not shown .

However the seventh embodiment differs from the sixth embodiment in several ways. For example the barrier module includes a two place flip seat . In addition because the barrier module includes a flip seat the side wall module must be spaced a distance A from the barrier module to accommodate the flip seat and the seated passenger s legs. In this embodiment the side wall module is shown having a two place flip seat but can include a three place flip seat not shown . In either case the barrier module is spaced a distance A from the side wall module .

As can be seen with reference to the sixth embodiment in placement of the side barrier toward a rear of the securement area near the barrier module where the barrier is adjacent a rear wheel of a secured wheelchair is most desirable to prevent wheelchair tipping during an accident scenario. The same configuration is desired for the side barrier of the seventh embodiment. However placement of a stationary side barrier in this position in the seventh embodiment would be problematic when the wheelchair securement system is not being used. More specifically the side barrier would intrude into the legroom for a passenger sitting in the two place flip seat of the barrier module . To solve this problem the side barrier of the seventh embodiment is movable. In that regard the side barrier is dubbed a sliding side barrier as it is designed to slide from a first refracted or stored position as shown in under the side wall flip seat to a second extended or wheelchair securable position as shown in where it extends into the space A . Like the side barrier the side barrier can be constructed of any material although as shown the side barrier comprises a rubber or neoprene material. However it is contemplated that the side barrier can be constructed of a rigid material such as metal.

In the shown embodiment the side barrier includes rails that slide through brackets fastened to the underside of the side wall module although the bracket may be fastened to any portion of the side wall module or even to other structures of the vehicle. The side barrier is biased in the first refracted or stored position using springs actuators struts or other mechanisms designed to resist or exert longitudinal compression and can be moved to the second extended position by hand or foot and locked in place using a latch.

An eighth embodiment includes the side barrier assembly depicted in . In particular show the side barrier assembly with bumper in a refracted position and show the bumper in an extended position. Like the side barrier of the seventh embodiment the bumper includes a recessed area adjacent the barrier module not shown and a projected area near the front securement assembly not shown . The side barrier assembly includes a bracket with two flanges and for securing the side barrier assembly to the underside of the side wall module although the flanges and can be fewer or greater in number and can be configured for securement to other structures of the side wall module or to other structures in the vehicle including the floor and wall of the vehicle. In the shown embodiment the bracket is formed from a single piece of sheet metal whereby the flanges and are connected by plate member . Notwithstanding the foregoing it is contemplated that the flanges and can be separate structures formed from separate pieces of sheet metal and need not be interconnected as shown.

The bumper includes two rails and that facilitate sliding movement. The rails and extend from one end of the bumper to the other end and are secured to both ends and . The rails and extend through aperatures in the flanges and and through bearings and each of which are affixed to the plate member . In the shown embodiment the bearings and are recirculating bearings although other types of bearings or roller mechanisms may be used to reduce friction and provide smooth sliding operation of the bumper . The side barrier also includes a biasing member which in this case is a gas strut that is affixed at one end to flange and at the other end to end of the bumper . The biasing member is configured to bias the bumper in the retracted position as shown in . It is intended that the bumper can be moved from the refracted position to the extended position through modest pressure exerted by hand or foot. Flange is provided with a locking mechanism to hold the bumper in the extended position. As shown locking mechanism is a lever that is affixed to the flange at pivot point . At one end the locking mechanism includes a notched finger with an angled leading edge that catches the edge of end of the bumper as it is pushed into the extended position. The engagement of finger with the end is best shown in . The locking mechanism includes a biasing member such as a spring hidden from view that holds the notched portion of finger in engagement with the end . The end of the locking mechanism opposite the finger includes a release handle . Pulling the release handle releases the notch of the finger from engagement with the bumper upon which the force of the biasing member causes the bumper to return to its refracted position .

Although the inventions described and claimed herein have been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments one skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventions described and claimed herein can be practiced by other than those embodiments which have been presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein.

