---

title: Pre-deformed obturator for tube-launched projectile
abstract: A pre-deformed obturator for a projectile launched from a rifled tube includes an annular ring with a forward planar surface normal to the central longitudinal axis of the obturator. A top cylindrical surface extends aft from the forward planar surface and normal to the forward planar surface. A plurality of projections are formed on the top cylindrical surface and are configured to engage the rifling of the tube. An opening is formed in an aft end of each of the plurality of projections for receiving propellant gas. The opening may also be contiguously formed in the aft surface of the obturator radially inward of each projection. Propellant gas enters the openings in the aft of the obturator and expands the obturator to provide an efficient gas seal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08950334&OS=08950334&RS=08950334
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08950334
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131113
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates in general to tube launched projectiles and in particular to obturators for such projectiles.

Obturators are used on tube launched projectiles to create a gas seal. The propellant gas behind the obturator propels the projectile out of the launching tube. Slip obturators decouple the rifling effects of a rifled launch tube from the projectile. Slip obturators enable fin stabilized munitions to be launched from rifled barrels with a minimum of barrel induced spin or from smooth barrels with no barrel induced spin.

Some projectiles and their obturators are designed to be launched from rifled tubes while other projectiles and their obturators are designed to be launched from smooth bore tubes. For various reasons a smooth bore projectile may be launched from a rifled tube. For example a smooth bore mortar round may be launched from a rifled mortar tube. When this occurs an increased amount of propellant gas blows by the obturator. The increased blow by gas decreases the energy available to propel the projectile. The increased blow by can also harm the projectile and tube in several ways. For example the increased blow by gas may cause the projectile to ballot oscillate side to side in the launch tube. The increased blow by gas may also overheat portions of the projectile located forward of the obturator or erode the rifling inside the launch tube.

Examples of known obturators are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 295 934 issued on Oct. 2 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 981 450 issued on Jan. 3 2006 U.S. Pat. No. 5 164 540 issued on Nov. 17 1992 U.S. Pat. No. 3 760 636 issued on Sep. 25 1973 U.S. Pat. No. 3 910 194 issued on Apr. 25 1973 U.S. Pat. No. 6 419 235 issued on Jul. 16 2002 WIPO publication WO2010025891 published on Mar. 11 2010 U.S. Pat. No. 2 846 281 piston ring issued on Aug. 5 1958 and European Patent Office publication EP0046888 published on Mar. 10 1982.

A need exists for an improved obturator for projectiles that are muzzle loaded and launched from rifled tubes.

One aspect of the invention is a pre deformed slip obturator for a projectile launched from a rifled tube. The projectile has an obturator slot with a forward planar surface normal to a central longitudinal axis of the projectile. The obturator includes an annular ring. The annular ring has a forward planar surface normal to a central longitudinal axis of the obturator and a top cylindrical surface extending aft from the forward planar surface and normal to the forward planar surface. A plurality of projections are formed on the top cylindrical surface of the annular ring. The projections are circumferentially equally spaced around the top cylindrical surface and configured to engage the rifling of the tube. An opening is formed in an aft end of each of the plurality of projections for receiving propellant gas.

Each projection may include a pair of opposing lateral side surfaces. One lateral side surface is a bearing side that engages the rifling in the tube. The other lateral side surface is a chamfer that extends from a top surface of the projection laterally outward to the top cylindrical surface of the annular ring. The chamfer forms an angle with respect to a normal from the top cylindrical surface. The angle is in a range of zero degrees to about forty five degrees.

Each projection may include a central longitudinal axis. The lateral side surfaces of each projection may be parallel to the central longitudinal axis of the projection. The axial length of each projection may be greater than or equal to the axial length of the top cylindrical surface.

A plurality of openings may be formed in the aft surface of the annular ring. Each of the plurality of openings may be contiguous with a respective opening in the aft end of each projection.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A novel pre deformed slip obturator for a projectile enables the projectile to be launched from a rifled tube with less blow by gas compared to known obturators. The slip obturator may decouple from the projectile most of the slip obturator s rotational torque. While the projectile may be breech loaded or muzzle loaded in the rifled tube the novel slip obturator is primarily for use with muzzle loaded projectiles. The amount of slip of the obturator may be adjusted to enable use of the obturator with both fin stabilized and spin stabilized projectiles. The obturator may remain attached to the projectile after the projectile exits the launch tube muzzle. Or the obturator may separate from the projectile after muzzle exit. To enable separation of the obturator at muzzle exit stress concentrations may be formed in the obturator and or the obturator may be fabricated from certain materials.

The obturator may be made of for example metal composite materials plastics woods rubber or organic materials. The material of the obturator must be able to elastically or plastically deform to fill voids through which gas may flow. The elongation of the material may be for example from about 1 to about 500 . The hardness of the material may be in a range of about Shore A 40 to about Shore D 100 and for metals in a range of about Brinell 30 to about Brinell 300.

The obturator may be located in a conventional obturator slot of a known projectile. The obturator slot may be located anywhere on the projectile that is forward of the projectile s propellant system. The forward surface of the obturator couples or bears on the projectile such that the force of the propellant gases aft of the obturator results in axial displacement of the projectile towards the muzzle of the launch tube. The obturator may be used with any caliber of projectile.

The clearance between the inside diameter of ring and the bottom surface of obturator slot is one factor that determines the amount of torque transferred from obturator to projectile . To decouple the torque the clearance may be in a range of about 0.01 to about 0.04 of the bore diameter of tube . To couple the torque the clearance may be in a range of no clearance to an interference fit of 0.001 0.2 of the bore diameter.

Each projection has a longitudinal axis C that may be aligned with the twist of rifling in tube in a known manner. For example angle D between axis C and a line parallel to axis B may be in range of about 4 degrees to about 13 degrees. The axial length E of each projection may be more or less than the axial length F of top cylindrical surface . In the embodiment shown axial length E of projections is more than axial length F.

Each projection may include an opening formed in its aft end . As shown in and opening may also be formed in the aft surface of ring . is an enlarged view of an opening . The central longitudinal axis or plane of symmetry of each opening is preferably parallel to axis C of each projection or if not parallel within about plus or minus ten degrees of parallel. Opening does not extend completely through projection or ring because opening receives propellant gas which expands obturator and increases the gas sealing ability of obturator when needed. Opening may be centrally located in projection or may be offset to one side. Openings may include features such as for example drill points rounded corners flat bottoms etc. The depth of openings may vary asymmetrically or symmetrically about axis A or be combined with stress concentrations if obturator is required to separate from projectile after muzzle exit.

Referring to the aft end of each projection may be a chamfer that forms an acute angle G with top cylindrical surface . Or aft end may be normal to top cylindrical surface .

Referring to each projection includes a pair of opposed lateral side surfaces . The lateral side surfaces may but need not lie in planes that are parallel to axis C . For example the lateral side surfaces may not be parallel to each other or to axis C for purposes such as controlling gas flow barrel wear drop rates and friction. One lateral side surface may be a bearing side surface that initially engages lands in tube . In one embodiment the bearing side surface is angled with respect to obturator axis B the same as the twist of the rifling in tube . As shown in the other side lateral side surface may be a chamfer that extends from a top surface of projection laterally outward to top cylindrical surface of annular ring . The chamfer angle H with respect to a normal from the base of projection may be in a range of zero degrees to about forty five degrees. The chamfer of lateral side surface and or surface may also be used to control gas flow barrel wear drop rates and friction.

In the embodiment of the chamfer of side surface will direct the initial propellant gas wash along the side surface and thereby force opposite side surface to initially bear against a land . Thus the side of lands in tube that are adjacent to side surface will bear the brunt of the erosive propellant gas and the side of lands in tube that are adjacent to side surface will be relatively uneroded thereby providing a smoother contact surface for lateral bearing side surface of obturator .

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

